ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e72	The representatives of Freddy de Ruiter, Bente Stein Mathisen, Ib Thomsen, Gunvor Eldegard, Frank Bakke-Jensen, Fredric Holen Bjørdal, Rigmor Andersen Eide, Kenneth Svendsen, Ingrid Heggø and Bjørn Lødemel, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Buskerud County: Gerd Eli Berge For the county of Hordaland: Eigil Knutsen For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Mette Hanekamhaug For the Rogaland County: Sissel Knutsen Hegdal For the North Trondelag County: Gunnar Viken For South-Trundellag County: Gunn Elin Flakne From the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, an application for parental leave is submitted from 21 October to 13 February 2015. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Ingunn Gjerstad, shall be convened from 21 October to 12 February 2015 to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e149	Ingunn Gjerstad is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e157	The representative, Karin Andersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e160	On behalf of the representative of Audun Lysbakken and myself, I would like to propose that Norway accept the 123 Syrian refugees to whom the government refused with reference to the capacity of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e165	The representative, Mr Vegar Solhjell, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e168	On behalf of the representative of Audun Lysbakken and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative to recognise Palestine as his own country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e173	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 17 October 2014: ‘In the Council of State of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 17 October 2014 at 2.30 p.m. 11.00 is hereby decided: «The Office of the Minister of State State of the Ministry of Justice and Defence, the Ministry of Justice and Defence, of the Himanshu Gulati, is hereby dismissed from office and appointed again as Secretary of State for Prime Minister Erna Solberg. Lawyer Marit Berger Røsland is appointed State Secretary for Prime Minister Erna Solberg. State Secretary at the Prime Minister's office, Fredrik Färber, is hereby dismissed from office and appointed State Secretary to the State Council, Siv Jensen. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, Jon Georg Dale, is hereby dismissed from office and re-appointed Secretary of State of the Council of State, Siv Jensen. Vara rapporteur Tom Cato Karlsen is appointed State Secretary to the Council of State Ketil Solvik-Olsen. Minister of Economic Affairs Kai-Morten Dörning is appointed Secretary of State for the Government of Solvency Horne. Advocate General Jøran Kallmyr is hereby appointed State Secretary to the Council of State Anders Anundsen. State Secretary Ole Berget is dismissed from office as Secretary of State for Siv Jensen. State Secretary Maria Hoff Aanes is hereby dismissed from office as Secretary of State of the Council of State Solvency Horne.’.» The referenced letter shall be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e216	No one has asked for the floor. Case No. 2 and 3 are interpellations, and the President will propose, by reference to Section 79 of the Rules of Procedure, to depart from the general procedure for interpelling debates by discussing them together. The two interpellations are largely related to the same theme. – Nobody has asked for the floor, and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e249	The President will then propose that the speaking time be allocated as follows: First, the interpellant and the two members of the Government receive one post each of up to 10 minutes, followed by a new post of up to 3 minutes each. Then open for up to 15 speakers with a speaking time of up to 5 minutes each. Finally, the interpellant and the two members of the Government are given one post each of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e256	Our nation needs a swimlift – a swimlift that includes training in how to rescue itself and others in outdoor aquatic environments. Among our people, we have dramatic numbers of young people who lack the very basic knowledge of how to deal with water. 50 pst. of our teenagers are not safe swimmers – the whole 50 pst! Unfortunately, we also see that as the result of heartbreaking headlines in the media. As I interpret Stortinget, the will to reverse this scary trend is absolutely present. Here, good recordings, ideas and research must be united. What we do in this big year could be crucial to the safety of our children. The left records with great tension and glad that several other parties have also raised this issue now, both the Central Party and the Labour Party have promoted Document 8 proposals, and I would like to commend the proposers for the initiative. And with an overall goal that we have no one to lose in drowning accidents, I am strengthened in the belief that the Storting will agree on something that will make a material difference to today's situation. We do not want children to die in drowning accidents – everyone agrees. Now we have to listen to the experts as to what we can do to get as much as possible to learn how to swim and manage unforeseen events. The main motive for swimming training is to prevent drowning. If you want to do this, you also need to learn how to deal with the challenges that create drowning situations. For the simple reason that drowning is mainly outdoors, much of the training also needs to be done here. It is not possible to provide adequate training in the pool, but it is also easy to complete adequate training for all outdoors. Therefore, a combination should be sought based on the outdoor environment and supplemented by training in the swimming pool. In order to meet the motivation and to prevent drowning, clear and binding self-storage targets should be formulated. As an extension, the corresponding target formulations should be made for swimming ability in the pool. From this point of view, all skilled swimmers in Norway — for example, Norway’s Smömmebund, Norway’s sports college and Norway’s Livredningsselskap — define the swimmers in the pool as follows: Roll in deep water. Swim 100 meters on the stomach. Stop and rest. Move on your stomach, roll over, move on your back together for 3 minutes. Then swim 100 meters on the back. However, this has not been adopted as a minimum by the education authorities for the purpose of swimming. 96 pst. by the ten-year-olds on Iceland are so-called safe swimmers, in Sweden the number is 92 pst., in Denmark 79 pst. and in Finland 72 pst. So in Norway only 50 pst. by the ten-year-olds safe swimmers. The numbers should be alarming to us as a nation. We are the least qualified of all Nordic countries. I must therefore ask the Council of State: does the Council of State think it is a good idea to legislate on a minimum national level? Compared to our Nordic siblings, we're quantum leaps after. Before the summer holiday, I raised the matter with Norway's main actors in swimming training and safety at sea. The feedback was ready: the school swim training should start as early as possible. The earlier children are introduced to swimming training and to play in water, the earlier and easier you learn to swim. What came as a surprise to me was that swimming training from as early as kindergarten age would have a major impact on swimming skills – children obviously learn faster and become safer the earlier you get started. With well-developed kindergarten systems in Norway, we should have good assumptions for starting early. Parents are responsible for their children and should teach their children how to swim. At the same time, we have to recognise that children's knowledge of swimming and much other knowledge comes only after the children have started school. The school is a crucial area for knowledge transfer. This also applies to swimming. Very many parents cannot swim by themselves, and among those who cannot, there are a large number who cannot afford to send their children on private swimming lessons. Children with resource-intensive parents who also have higher incomes have good opportunities to learn to swim outside school. It is these children who travel to the South, baths on the cabin or from the boat, and who have parents who can swim themselves, and who are able to learn from themselves, among other things. through trips to swimming pools and swimming pools. Sometimes parents unfortunately have no choice, because swimming training and visits in swimming pools cost money, and in some places swimming facilities are not available. In schools, swimming lessons become an important venue for the most vulnerable, while in-depth training is also provided in the field of lifesaving. Some children have parents who cannot swim themselves. It makes these children extremely vulnerable and also makes school efforts important in the field of swimming. What are you doing in Iceland and Sweden that you can't do in Norway? Don't we have the best conditions in Norway to teach our children how to save their own lives? I want to appeal to the Council of State to look at the kindergartens. What if you were already familiar with bathing in kindergarten? Logistics can be solved. We who have or have had children in kindergarten, know excursions, tours and organized ski training, for example. If there is first a political will to implement this, I believe that this can also be done. My kids learned to ski through ski school in the direction of kindergarten. They were bused – it was organised and arranged – and they were followed up. Bravo, kindergarten! Swimming lessons in kindergarten can be carried out, if we are willing to do so. Then I will again say bravo! I will therefore challenge the Minister of Knowledge. Would he be willing to take the initiative for a test project, with swimmers capable of providing and assisting in fully basic training from kindergarten? Maybe this could cost a little extra for the parents, but then with a need-tested support for those who are unable to cope with the extra cost. It's about saving lives, and with swimming training in kindergarten, we meet children at a time they're extra susceptible to such learning. If many people are able to learn how to swim everything in kindergarten, the school can focus on the fewer weakest at school start-up. Although the swimming skills of children in Norway are significantly worse than in our neighbouring country, ethnic Norwegian children have a small advantage over minority children. It is much more likely that ethnic Norwegian children’s parents can swim, have been in the water and can explain how to behave in water. Very many children of immigrants do not have this advantage and are already missing a key prerequisite for taking on swimming lessons in the best possible way. The Norwegian Association of Swimming and the Mutual Foundation presented last year that a total of 17 pst. children with a minority background do not even manage to remain liquid in the water. For children with Norwegian ethnic parents, the number is 5 pst. There is also a challenge related to swimming training for immigrants and others coming from cultures where swimming lessons with boys and girls are seen together as problematic. Early swimming lessons will increase the chances of children with a migrant background. The younger the children, the less problematic it becomes for parents to accept that boys and girls have such education. I wonder: does the Minister for Gender Equality see the integration gain we can reap with the early start of swimming everything in the kindergarten? This is how it becomes – it becomes immediately less problematic for immigrant parents to accept that boys and girls have such education gathered when this occurs in early childhood. Fortunately, this is also the professional best thing to do, and the most cost-effective. Even if attitudes and campaigns are desirable, we need to act in the form of concrete measures in the light of today’s realities, which in worst cases could end up with tragic accidents. That way, awareness campaigns will be able to work well as well. A very important step on the way is to teach minority parents how to swim – I think especially of immigrant women. In the summer, it became known that the Ministry of Knowledge will provide $7 million. for swimming training for children with a migrant background and adult immigrants at primary school. The president of the Fed said it was a good start, but not good enough. Increased appropriations are very good, but here the amounts should be in line with the challenges you want to solve. Big and important grips must be taken. One should also focus on building new swimming pools, renovating the old and filling the pools. But we don't have to be resigned pending this. Much can be done in relation to the resources already available in cities and municipalities. Today, there are few requirements for swimming skills, only recommendations. We in the Left have had close dialogue with several representatives from Swim-Norway, and on this basis we believe that children should be introduced for water play and swimming training as early as possible. The left wants to see opportunities to play in water become part of the annual plan in kindergartens, and that regular swimming lessons start from the first or second stage at primary school. This will also be one of our inputs when dealing with these Document 8 proposals. As far as immigrant women are concerned, I would like to ask the Minister for Gender Equality if she has devised a concrete plan to lift immigrant women and their ability to develop life to the full, so that they can become swimmers and rock their own lives. The left considers it important to look at what opportunities we have today, with the resources available, and then to implement concrete measures. Although it may take a short time to build new swimming pools, the process is long. We believe that it can already be done very much in this field, while waiting for new swimming pools to be built. The need for more halls will continue to increase, but we can do a lot already today with today's resources and crew, if we have political will to do so. Finally, I look forward with excitement to the replies of Mr Isaksen and Mr Horne and the subsequent debate. We can't live with just 50 pst. by the ten-year-olds can swim. In Iceland, they can do almost 100 pst., and Norway cannot be known to be anything worse.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e298	Thank you very much to the interpellant for both of the interpellations. I fully agree with the interpellant that being able to swim is important for both children and adults. It's important because it saves lives, but it's also important because it gives exercise. It's a nice leisure activity. There's something great about being able to throw yourself into the water, just like that, which I think many people have experienced – the joy of it when it's hot in the water, or when you're in the swimming pool. Being able to throw yourself out and have fun is important for the quality of life. There are different definitions of what it is to be able to swim. The countries referred to in the interpellation have very different requirements for swimming in school, so we may have to be a little careful to draw the very bastant conclusion that half of Norwegian teenagers cannot swim on the basis of this survey. But we know enough that we can say that the numbers give cause for concern. Today, we have competence objectives for swimming after the 4th, 7th and 10th stages, but it is worth noting that this does not mean that the swimming instruction is located at the 4th, 7th and 10th stages respectively; that means that within these steps one must achieve the competence objectives. All the curricula have regulatory status and the school owners are obliged to make available the resources necessary to meet the requirements of law and regulation. To make it even easier: Just as you cannot opt out of mathematics education or Norwegian education at school, you cannot choose swimming lessons as a school owner — if anyone thinks so. In autumn 2013, swimming training was supervised. The aim was to check the school's work on training in swimming against the aims of competence in swimming and life-saving and on compliance with the safety requirements of the training on swimming and life-saving. The survey showed that there are differences between schools and that some schools do not meet the requirements. That's not good enough. However, we cannot say that the teaching of swimming is too bad throughout the country. There are a lot of people doing a very good job. I know, for example. that there are schools providing additional swimming lessons for those students who need it. It's very good that the schools use the opportunity to provide such extra support. There is nothing different than when schools provide extra support for, for example: a student who has not learned to read and write properly or struggles in other subjects. The objectives of the Education and Training Programme are initially designed at an overall level. This is also the way the objectives of competence for swimming are designed. This means, among other things: that you haven't had a concrete, numerical definition of what it means to be able to swim. But: Swimming may be the only skill that students should acquire that can mean the difference between life and death. I have therefore taken note of how we can strengthen the swimming skills of Norwegian students, and the department has recently sent a letter of assignment to the Education Directorate for Change in Skills Goals for Swimming in the Body Exercise Apprenticeship. The objectives of competence for swimming shall be clarified and the revised curriculum shall be used from the school year 2015 to 2016. This will help to strengthen swimming training, so that more children and young people learn to swim. The proposal for a revised curriculum will be sent to the hearing this autumn. New skills targets for swimming alone are not enough. Students must also have access to swimming facilities with water in the pools. It is such that it is the responsibility of the municipalities to prioritize filling of water in the pools and keeping the halls open. The Ministry of Knowledge does not have any means to oblige municipalities to rehabilitate or build new halls, and the schools themselves have to decide how and when it is practical to carry out the swimming training. That was the formalities. That being said, the state still has instruments. We have an interest compensation scheme for school and swimming facilities. This means that municipalities or county councils may raise loans in respect of which the State grants compensation for interest costs. In the 2002 budget — i.e. under the Bondevik II government — the first interest compensation scheme was introduced. It originally had an assumed investment framework of 15 billion. kr. In 2009, the scheme was extended with a view to a new investment framework of 15 billion. kr. In the 2015 budget, the government proposes to phase in 3 billion. kr to the scheme. The budget effect of that is 45 million. kr. This means that there can be a realistic hope that during 2015 the queue, which is long, will hopefully be lost, so that you can start accepting new applications. The revision of the objectives of competence for swimming and the extended framework for the interest-rate compensation scheme is a step towards clarifying the expectations of school swimming training. At the same time, we have to follow up on those who need extra follow-up. One of the groups is newly arrived students who have not had a realistic chance of learning to swim. As the interpellant also mentioned, the Ministry of Knowledge in the 2015 budget proposes to allocate 7 million. for swimming training for newly arrived minority language children, young people and adults covered by primary school training. In the revised national budget for 2013, the previous government granted 1.5 million. SEK for swimming training for newly arrived students, but it was only a one-off sum. The grant was very small, and several of the municipalities that applied for funds in 2013 did not receive funds. The government has now significantly increased the grant and proposes that it should not be a one-off grant but a scheme that will continue in the coming years. In practice, swimming training in many schools will take place only in individual years. This is precisely why many newly arrived minority students who have not learned to swim in their home country and who have parents who cannot swim either do not have a real chance to learn swimming skills. In addition, we know that families with a migrant background are overrepresented among low-income families, and therefore have less opportunity to send children on their own to swimming courses or out-of-school activities. The scheme put in place by the government means that the municipalities themselves decide how to organise swimming training for newly arrived students, but it can, for example: be an arrangement in which an intensive and time-limited course is held or swimming training is given in connection with the follow-up of children and young people in receptions of asylum during school or after school. Swimming training is part of the school's responsibility, but swimming also takes place in leisure time. This means that parents and other adults also need to help their children learn to swim. We have to stand together. We must let all good forces escape and make sure that no one drowns because they have not learned to swim properly. I want to do what I can in the areas for which I am responsible, but at the same time we need to cooperate. Here I will refer to the posts of the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion on the part of the training for swimming that is not taking place at school. Finally, I would like to remind you that the Education Directorate has developed guidance material on swimming and lifesaving training. We know that this material is well received in the schools. The Education Directorate has also produced a circular on the safety and manning of swimming training. With this, together with the revised skills objectives, the interest-rate compensation scheme and the grant scheme for the newly arrived students, I believe that we have taken a major step in the right direction for all children and young people in Norway to receive a good swim training – without saying that we are finished. My call, of course, is for municipalities and county councils to take advantage of this space for action. I would also like to strongly encourage the municipalities to cooperate even more closely with the voluntary organisations, such as the Norges Livreidsgesellschaft and the Norwegian Smömmebund. When it comes to getting good swim training, we have nothing to lose and no one to lose. My goal is that we will not have the same discussion about swimming every year without getting any further. We've taken a step in the right direction this year, and we'll keep working on this in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e328	Like the Minister of Knowledge, I would also like to thank the interpellant for raising an important question concerning swimming training and, for my part, particularly swimming training for people with a migrant background. In his reply, the Minister of Knowledge was concerned with the importance of swimming training and how the school can contribute to better swimming skills. I fully agree with the interpellant that being able to swim is important. We have seen several tragic drowning accidents in recent years that have occurred because the people involved have not been able to swim. In several of those accidents, people with a migrant background have been involved. The government is concerned with preventing this type of accident, even though it is important to stress that it is the individual who has a responsibility not to sit in a situation that you do not master, and to learn to swim. All children who have grown up in Norway will receive swimming training. Pooling competence objectives are part of the physical training profession in school, and school owners are obliged to make available the resources necessary to comply with legal and regulatory requirements. In contrast, swimming training for adults is not a national offer, but it has arrangements to help finance the development and rehabilitation of swimming facilities in municipalities. The pool with water is an important offer for the inhabitants. Children and adults should be able to be safe in water and learn to swim. Local authorities need to facilitate the ability of residents to be in water and practice on swimming. The Ministry of Knowledge has a system of interest compensation to stimulate municipalities and counties to build new swimming facilities and to upgrade existing facilities used by the school. In the 2015 budget, the Government proposes to increase the overall investment framework for such installations. The aim is to get more and better swimming facilities. Furthermore, more than 100 million were allocated in 2014. kr from the Norwegian Typing Games to build and rehabilitate swimming facilities. This scheme may also be used by municipalities and sports teams associated with the Norwegian Sports Association and the Olympic and Paralympic Committee. In the government's political platform, we have ambitions for an offensive integration policy that includes both demands for individuals and offers from the public. There are offers outside school swimming training for children, young people and adults who need it to receive swimming training. Children grew up in Norway will receive school swimming training. Learning to swim is something that the individual has to take responsibility for at least the seventh and last time, but for adults to learn to swim, we need to contribute more to the organisation. What, then, do we have of measures for swimming training outside the school? In the 2015 budget, the Government of the Ministry of Knowledge proposes that it be set at 7 million. for swimming training for newly arrived minority language children, young people and adults covered by primary school training. The Government proposes that this be a multi-annual scheme and the aim is to improve the swimming skills of new arrivals. Through the profits from Norwegian Typing for sport purposes, the government finances sport and physical activity through grants to NEF and through grants to local sports teams. Norway's Swim Association, like other special federations in the NIF, receives basic support from the funds. NIF is a voluntary organisation. Therefore, the State cannot instruct the sport activities to be offered by NIF and the special federations. Several of the member clubs of the Swim Federation conduct profit-based swimming training, especially for children and young people, under their own direction and in cooperation with the Swim Action in the Mutual Foundation. In 2014, 112 swimming clubs across the country face the implementation of the courses locally. Among the priority courses are the course for insecure six-year-olds in kindergarten and the course for unsafe children with migrant backgrounds. The Ministry of Culture has a special grant scheme to allow sports to include new groups into the ordinary activities offered by teams. Thus, in urban areas with special challenges related to recruiting children and young people, there are sports teams that can receive such a grant. The aim is to include new groups by countering economic and cultural barriers that may prevent participation in organised sporting activities. Measures shall focus on children and young people with a migrant background, with particular emphasis on girls, and on children and young people from families with low paying capacity. The NIF, which administers the scheme, reports that some sports teams have received grants through an application to their sports councils or their circles for a swimming course for children and young people, including: priority has been given to women and girls with a migrant background. Voluntary activities and voluntary organisations are important actors in integration work. Voluntary organisations create out-of-work venues and meeting places, thus contributing to learning, to new acquaintances and facilitating different activities. The Government, through the Directorate for Integration and Diversity, grants grants to non-governmental organisations and activities in the field of integration. The Directorate for Integration and Diversity has, among others: Memorandums of Understanding and grants to large non-governmental organisations to promote better integration. A few weeks ago, I had a meeting with all the volunteer organisations involved in integration work to discuss what volunteering can contribute to integration. At the meeting, the organisations told about their work. Several of these organisations offer swimming training and provision of swimming facilities for women with migrant backgrounds. This is an offer that reaches out to some of the women who might need it the most. In addition, we know that there are small local organisations around the country that facilitate swimming training for particularly women with migrant backgrounds. Some of these organisations are run by immigrants, but also the Primary Medical Workshop, which is run by the Church's Bymition in Oslo, has swimming instruction. These reach women who would not otherwise have the opportunity to learn to swim. To sum up, the Minister of Knowledge has been involved in a great many measures to teach children how to swim. My response to the interpellant is to integrate immigrant women, but the most important thing is that the goal is for children who have grown up in Norway to be able to swim. There's a little bit of time left until we get to the goal, but this is something the government's working to do better. Learning to swim is something that each individual must take responsibility for. Sport and some non-governmental organisations provide such services locally. The State contributes with funding through funds and its own grant schemes. The State is also involved in financing the development and rehabilitation of swimming facilities in the municipalities. That there's a pool of water in it is absolutely central in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e379	I would like to thank both state councils for the answer, but I did not immediately notice clear answers as to whether you would support statutory minimum standards for swimming training. I also heard nothing about this trial project, which I asked the Council of State to respond to. What does the Minister for Equal Opportunities think about immigrant women? Well, volunteering contributes, we know they do, but what does the Council itself intend to do to promote the equality of immigrant women? We politicians have to do much, much more than what comes out here, and adopting a minimum will for the state be showing the way and then checking whether the municipalities follow up. I feel that the Council of State here is pushing the responsibility a little away, partly to the municipalities, partly to the volunteering, but what I want to do is: what are we going to do? As early as 1960, the Norwegian Life Rescue Company estimated that almost 70 pst. of the population of Norway could swim. It was before the swimming pools were particularly common. It gives us hope that we can actually think a little bit more about swimming lessons, because that's not new. Several actors in swimming training and life-saving activities underline the importance of also acquiring knowledge of swimming and water in outdoor training. Large parts of Norway border on water, and therefore it is particularly important that this is in our consciousness. I learned to swim in my nearby pool, where I live, but then I took part in the program '71° north', and I realized that I had got the 200-metre mark indoors, in the pool, so I couldn't swim out in nature at all, really – I was totally out of chance. What we have to do is teach kids how to deal with falling into the water in nature, from the edge of the bridge or from the recreational boat. This is where drowning accidents most often happen. The fact that we have so much water around us in this country gives us the opportunity to do a lot more out there, but it requires resources – and it requires the will and personal commitment of the Council of State – to give priority to saving lives by setting minimum standards and then following up with resources and policies. We ordinary citizens can do something too. Here each of us can contribute. I can appeal to the feeling of citizens and the responsibility of the community to contribute more. More children are excluded from social settings – the companion is going on a bath tour, and you can't swim, and then you can't join them. This is how the lack of swimming skills becomes a problem that not only relates to being able to save lives, but is also cut off from important experiences in growing up. And you can actually as parents bring the neighborhood kids in the swimming pool if any other parents can't swim. Take them with your own children, and share the knowledge that other parents do not have! But this is where we are now, in Stortinget, and we must dare politically to open all thoughts and come up with ideas for further work now in the harvest. Is today's swimming lessons good enough? Are we getting rusted up to meet the dramatic events? What are we going to do politically, legally and budgetaryly to succeed? I look forward to the further debate today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e394	I fully agree that we politicians will want a lot, but we also have to finance it and follow it up – just so they say – so it doesn't work if you don't have the money in place! So to the two concrete things that the representative Raja asked me about, namely, to legitimize minimum standards. That's what I said. So we've sent this over to the Education Directorate. There will be a hearing on this during the autumn. Based on that consultation, there will be a proposal to implement it from 2015/2016. In the case of a trial project in the kindergarten, it sounds absolutely positive, and there may well be some municipalities that have it as well. I have to admit that I do not know all the kindergartens and all the municipalities in Norway. It is basically the municipalities that have both the freedom and the ability to initiate this. What I see as a possible possibility is: we are now working on the framework plan for kindergarten, which says a little about the educational framework, and it may be a place for that – working with water, safety around water, being safe around water. That could be an opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e403	I think that one of the most important things you can do is to raise the debate that the interpellant brings up in this case. But at the same time, I don't have any concrete plans to teach immigrant women how to swim. The most important thing I can do is to give funds to the voluntary organisations and to organisations that offer and help immigrant women, to put this on the agenda so that they can have the means to have swimming training and provide an offer to the population. I think that's the most important thing we as state can be involved in right in this setting. There are also a lot of other things the interpellant was about, which I could have said something about in this debate, like immigrant women and equality. The key here is to get both language training and work, so that these women too can be equalised. But the interpellant stated that very many children live in low-income families, and that very many of these do not have the opportunity to participate in leisure activities or on vacation, as many others in this country can. Many may also believe that everyone is traveling to the South. They don't, and we've been very lucky this summer and had very nice weather, so there's been opportunities to bathe here at home, in this country, too. I think that might have been a strength for a lot of people who have been allowed to participate in the Holiday for everyone. The Government has two grant schemes. This year, the national grant scheme against child poverty has been increased in the revised national budget — now 110 million. kr. You have the big city funds, which are going to be $28 million. kr from 2015. These are large amounts, going to leisure activities, to Ferie for everyone, and we know that in the national grant scheme there were 113 municipalities and 450 individual cases. That also means 44 pst. have gone to private and voluntary bodies. So there are historically many children and young people who this year have been allowed to join the Holiday for all, and who have not least been given access to leisure activities. It's an important part of this. We know that part of these low-income families are minority families, and that those children and young people then have the opportunity to participate in these leisure activities. I also think a lot is about information for the parents. We should remember that very many of the parents who come to Norway are not aware of the importance of learning to swim, how important it is that you can swim, and that it can actually be alpha and omega to survive that you can. Then we have to give these parents information about this importance, so that they see that they have to send their children to swimming training, that they are involved and help these children get the training in swimming that they are entitled to, at school, and that it is important that they participate. That way, we can manage to rock more, by learning to swim.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e418	First, thank you to the interpellant for travelling an important matter. In the Church, Education and Research Committee there are now two proposals dealing with the same theme, as the interpellant explained: one from the Centre Party and one from the Workers' Party. The studies show that only 50 pst. by Norwegian teenagers are considered safe swimmers. So there might be some uncertainty about the numbers, as the Minister of Knowledge said, but anyway, this is not good enough, and we in the Workers' Party believe that a national plan is now needed to ensure the quality of the swimming lessons. Today's curriculum says that after the fourth year of life, students will be safe in water and swimmers. This we believe is too diffuse. We believe that the objectives of the curriculum must become clearer and more concrete. The Norwegian Swimming Association believes that the aim should be to maintain a liquid and to be able to swim continuously for 200 metres. We think that's a good starting point, but to get something done, of course, a majority is needed in this room. Therefore, it is very positive and extra happy that it is the Left who addresses this matter today, and is so clear in its message. It promises well for the further consideration of our proposal, because we all have to do what we can to avoid the loss of human life at sea. Last week I had a useful meeting with the Norwegian Life Rescue Company. Their message is that swimming training must also take place outdoors in order to be drowning prevention, as the interpellant is also concerned about. They believe that the objectives of both swimming and self-storage should be legislated and incorporated into the 1st to 4th stage curriculum. The main reason for drowning is falls from land, bridges, ice or boat or during bathing. This means that most drowning accidents occur very closely within the rescue facilities, actually less than 3 meters. Paradoxically, most drowning people can swim, but under other conditions, such as: in a pool. Today's swimming training usually takes place indoors, in a hot water pool. What you don't learn is to prevent drowning and self-storage. The main point of the Life Rescue Company of Norway for this is that: knowledge of the aquatic environment – the variety and challenges that lie there, and how to deal with them in a sensible way in terms of being able to swim in the sea, addressing challenges such as falling out, being able to swim with clothing in cold water, in waves, in currents, etc. it is also important to know your own personal limitations relating to the conditions in force at all times and to understand when conditions are appropriate to keep it comfortable in the water, when safety precautions should be taken, and when you should actually stay away from the water; In 1960 it was estimated that 70 pst. of the population of Norway could swim. This was before we got swimming halls of some importance, and the swimming training took place in summer time, out in the sea, in lakes and in rivers. In order for even more people to have better opportunities to learn how to swim, you started building swimming pools, and that's of course good. The problem was that instead of training in the pool being a supplement to the existing outdoor training, it gradually became a substitute. This has resulted in most of the drowning prevention content of the training being lost today. If we combine the opportunities we have to spend the summer, with the opportunities we have to build swimming pools, the opportunities for good swim training are better than ever. Norway’s Life Rescue Company at the Secondary School in Hurum has had a project of outdoor swimming training carried out within the existing framework – no additional costs. When the project was completed, 52 out of 55 students could swim and master self-storage in cold water. We know that there are many foreign cultures that cannot swim. They don't know Norwegian culture and nature, and many people have a religion that creates extra challenges, related to, for example, clothing. They can be part of this without any problems, because the swimming lessons are actually wearing clothes. With regard to the interpellations addressed to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, the public health message that we are waiting for is also important, and there the Storting must exert a strong pressure to get swimming training for absolutely everyone. I think Norway's Life Rescue Company has a lot of good insights, which we should also take into account in the further handling of these matters. Finally, I agree with the Council of State Horne on the importance of the work of non-governmental organisations on integration and, in this context, on swimming training. She also underlined in her reply to the interpellant that there was little she could do, but that the most important thing was actually to grant money to these organizations. In that case, the solution cannot be to cut appropriations for organisations, as is now done in the draft state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e452	I will first commend the interpellant, which addresses a very important matter. This is a recurring theme, and it is very sad that we are going to experience today that young people do not learn to swim, and that accidents happen – as we have heard here – because they have not learned to swim well enough. That's why it's very good that the Minister of Knowledge has now obviously taken hold of these things through, among other things. reviewing the objectives of competence. I think that might be a good idea. I also think it might be a good idea to consider setting in at an early age. In addition, the Minister of Knowledge has strengthened the interest-rate compensation scheme, which improves the ability of municipalities to have swimming pools available for swimming lessons; it is a key prerequisite, and – finally – strengthened the grant scheme for newly arrived students which also allows for the organisation of swimming lessons for those who have not learned to swim in time at school. The Ministry of Knowledge also encourages municipalities and counties to take advantage of the space they now receive. This is important, because we must not forget who is responsible for ensuring the implementation of the skills objectives that exist in school. That's why I want to take an example from Oslo, who has had challenges in teaching swimming, but who has also taken care of the community. Then the training seat has systematically surveyed all students at the 4th stage after the compulsory swimming training. How many students can swim 200 meters, or 25 meters, and how many students can’t swim — that is. less than 25 metres. That means that all students in Oslo School who have not learned to swim 25 meters are offered enhanced swimming training, and that's important. The offer is given at some schools in school, while others are offered courses in the afternoons or during school holidays. Intensive swimming courses are also organised in all the implementation weeks of the summer school that Oslo has. The offer is given to all students aged 4–10. non-swimming steps. In addition, in 2013, the summer school in Oslo had 5,500 courses with one hour of swimming each day for a whole week. The same offer was made in 2014. Then, in Oslo, we have some challenges that not everyone accepts the offer. You have to do more to make sure that everyone benefits from these benefits. But we can't force people either. In any case, you have to work more to make sure that everyone who needs it joins in these offers. I want to say that the city of Stovner has for a long time focused on swimming training. There are also many immigrant children. The goal is for all the children in the Stovner district to be able to swim. This makes Stovner part of the city by having intensive training, increasing the temperature of the pool, having small groups, having enough qualified instructors, and using local pools – just to name something. We see good results from this intensive work. Four of the six primary schools had completed their swimming lessons last year. At these schools a total of 86 pst. by all the students declared swimmers after the compulsory swimming training, and 97 pst. was declared swimmers after the intensified training. The good results we see here show that we can take action locally to get better results. In addition to the steps that the Minister of Knowledge now, together with the Minister of Integration, is taking in this matter, we must not forget what we parents are responsible for teaching our children. Maybe we'll take an extra responsibility to bring the kids who don't learn it at home, teach them good habits and make some demands on them before they're allowed to play in water.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e475	First of all, I would like to thank the interpellant, who raises the question of whether swimming lessons in school are good enough for students to become swimmers. For information, the Church, Education and Research Committee has two Documents 8 proposals on swimming for treatment, so this is clearly a topic that many think is very important. And that's important, to be able to swim is very important both for your own safety and if you get into a situation where others need lifesaving help. According to statistics from Norsk Folkehelp, 119 people drowned in 2013. Among these, there was one child between 8 and 14 years of age. Until 1 October this year, 91 people have drowned. Among these, there was also one child between 8 and 14 years of age. Statistics have shown for several years that most drown by falling into the water at the dock, from the boat or by going through the ice. The statistics show that the majority of those drowning are men from 40 years of age and up. Although there are few children drowning, in relation to adults, we have no children to lose. This should not be an article on statistics, but this is about people, both children and adults, and it is important to have knowledge of the possible fatal consequences of lack of swimming skills and lifesaving skills. Interpellanten suggests that Denmark, Sweden, Finland and Iceland have far more pupils who are considered to be swimmers than Norway has. Here I would like to remind you that countries have different skills requirements in order to get the term ‘safe swimmers’. However, these figures have to be taken seriously, and they make it clear that we need to take action to ensure that children have good enough swimming skills. The Council of State, which is the Minister of Knowledge in this case — there were two councillors in the debate — made it clear in his speech that he and the government have taken the swim training seriously, and that he has already taken important steps to clarify new skills objectives for swimming in the physical exercise, which will strengthen the teaching and thus also the swimming skills of children and young people. It is important that public, through school education, make sure that children learn to swim, but we must not neglect the responsibility of parents and relatives to teach their children to swim. I would also like to remind you that everything from baby swimming to senior swimming is offered around the municipality of Norway. Even I take advantage of the opportunity to take my 7-year-olds and 5-year-olds on a family bath on Saturdays. It is a pleasure to see how both my grandchildren and the children and families of others feed themselves in the water and at the same time lay the basis for good swimming skills. The Progress Party is pleased that the State budget for 2015 proposes to extend the interest-rate compensation scheme for school and swimming facilities by 3 billion. kr. It will enable municipalities to invest in the pool and to be filled with water, so that children can actually be safe and learn to swim at an early age. I therefore want to encourage all municipalities to prioritize children's swimming skills by investing in pool and filling them with water. Unfortunately, more children and young people drown with a minority background. They don't have the swimming experience and the swimming skills that the Nordics traditionally have. Therefore, there is a need for specific offers for these, and the Minister for Integration mentioned several measures in his intervention, just in order to improve the training of new arrivals of immigrant children, young people and adults covered by primary school training. Among other things, the government in the 2015 budget has proposed that it be set at 7 million. for swimming training for newly arrived minority speakers. This contrasts with the previous government, which only proposed a one-year grant. This government has set up a multi-annual scheme. This will strengthen the objective, which is to improve the swimming skills of newly arrived immigrants in the long term as well. The government’s actions are important and direct steps on the way to improving the teaching of swimming, which hopefully will make children and young people swimmers. I would also like to remind you that it is the responsibility of parents and relatives to facilitate children and young people learning to swim and become safe in the water. We must not get to the point where this should only be the responsibility of the public. Then we're on completely wild roads. I would strongly warn against that. It is just as important that parents teach their children to be safe in the water, as they do, for example. train their children to ride bicycles and to use protective equipment when cycling.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e509	I would also like to thank the interpellant for having an important debate. We know that Norway is cutting low on the statistics on children’s swimming skills and high on the statistics on drowning accidents. Every year there are children drowning in Norway, and we have to go back to 2004 to find higher drowning rates than we saw last year. It's not just about drowning. Being able to swim is also about public health, about physical activity, about being able to share in the pleasures of life, as the Minister of Knowledge so vividly explained. I am pleased to hear that the Minister of Knowledge is clear that he is taking this seriously, and I think it makes sense to revise the objectives of competence. It's fine with an extension of the interest compensation scheme – I think that's what you need. Figures from the Norwegian Swim Federation show that up to 300 swimming facilities have been dried in the last 10–15 years. In the Christian People's Party we tend to talk hot about drying, but not about swimming pool. In the past, the Christian People's Party has proposed an action plan for rehabilitation and new construction of swimming facilities. An extended interest-rate compensation scheme is something. Ensuring infrastructure and revising the skills objectives is not enough in itself. The level of knowledge is really quite clear: children should be able to swim when they leave the 4th grade. And when only half of the students can do that, it's often associated with poor access to swimming facilities, but I think that in many places it's also due to the fact that swimming training is down-priority at school and in the municipality. Of course, that's not okay. Therefore, in 2012 the Christian People's Party promoted a proposal for a national swimming skill test. It is also not every day that the Christian People's Party arranges for more testing and testing in school, so it is worth sharpening the ears. What we want is a fourth-class swimming skill test, with clear objectives of competence, where students are given the right to continue teaching until these objectives are achieved. In this way, the school and the municipality cannot deprioritise swimming training. You have to take that responsibility seriously. I think it would help more people learn to swim, and I think it would contribute to fewer drownings in Norway in the future. The Christian People's Party promoted both this proposal and the proposal for an action plan for several swimming facilities, which was discussed in spring 2013. These proposals only got the Christian People's Party's own votes. Neither the Labour Party nor the Left supported the proposals. Therefore, it is nice to record that these parties are now engaged in swimming training, are committed to it, and want to travel this theme in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e524	Thanks to the interpellant for producing a vital interpellant. It's unacceptable that only half of the 5th-step students in the base of Norway can swim 200 meters. There are at least 150000 children from 1st to 5th class in Norway who cannot swim. Norway is far behind Denmark and Sweden, given how many children and young people are able to swim. Looking at the average over the last few years, one can see that there have been 92 drowning accidents every year. It's a very high number if we compare with our neighboring countries. Missing swimming skills not only increase the risk of drowning accidents, missing swimming skills are also socially stigmatising and can prevent children from participating in social activities, such as: paddling, fishing and beach life. The centre party believes that swimming training is and must be part of the school's responsibility. It is today defined in the curriculum as a goal of competence after the 4th year, the 7th year step and the 10th year step, as mentioned here before today. However, studies show that too many children do not receive the training they require. It should be troubling the Minister of Knowledge. Swimming skills must become a straight one; all elephants must be able to acquire such skills in the school. It must be a public responsibility to give all children, regardless of background, such a possibility. Many children learn to swim by parents, but this applies far from all. The social differences are obvious. In particular, children with a migrant background learn less to swim by family and friends. My own son got 10 hours in a pool in ten years in the basement. Swimming is becoming a class division in Norway, and we can't tolerate that. The center party thinks it's a problem that the authorities haven't given a clear definition of swimming ability. The Norwegian Swimming Association believes that being a swimmer must be defined in order to swim 200 meters. The centre party supports this. Only in this way will school owners be able to provide all the students with appropriate swimming instruction, in line with the objectives of competence. Then I would like to point out that there is a great need for construction rehabilitation and new swimming facilities. Many swimming facilities in Norway today are older, many need rehabilitation, and many need to be replaced. The central party sees that the interest compensation scheme has worked worse for swimming facilities, as the scheme has been a priority for school buildings. It's because the municipalities that have bad school buildings are also the ones that have bad swimming facilities. In addition, the experience is that in many municipalities new school buildings are built without a pool. This reduces and centralizes the swimmers. That's not good, from a public health perspective. We believe that more targeted economic instruments are needed to re-establish the maintenance run and secure a decentralised development of new swimming facilities. It is also important to consider that swimming facilities are widely used for unorganised physical activity — and therefore also a good public health measure. The centre party would also point out the need to ensure skills-enhancing measures for teachers to teach in swimming and life-savering. Today, there is a high level of competence within various sports organisations in running swimming training. We need to facilitate cooperation between schools, kindergartens, sports organisations and other voluntary organisations in order to ensure quality and transfer of competences when it comes to better swim training in schools. There is a need for concrete action and clear policy objectives for swimming training. The Centre Party has submitted a proposal to the Stortinget for a concrete action plan with both overarching objectives and clear actions to ensure better swimming skills among children and young people. The goal we propose is for all 5th stage elephants to be swimmable by 2020, i.e. they shall be able to swim 200 metres. The 7th and 10th stage competence measure must also be achieved. So we're going to introduce a state definition of swimming ability: being able to swim 200 meters. We're going to review the academic competence objectives to build skill requirements earlier than the 4th stage, so that all schools are forced to start swimming lessons earlier than today. We will reintroduce the swim button: All municipalities will have to introduce skill tests in swimming – to ensure that all the elephants are swimmers and are given appropriate training. We want to implement empowerment measures, as mentioned, and we want to look at the State guarantee scheme and the interest-rate compensation scheme, so that in a completely different way they are prioritised for rehabilitation and new construction of swimming facilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e547	I would also like to praise Mr. Abid Q. Raja for raising the issue of swimming in the Great Britain, but I would like to stress that the big debate must come up with the proposals that will be discussed a little later, which also Toppe was in. When I value this debate so highly, it's because I'm a popular swimmer myself. Without being a member of any sports team, I go to the swimming pool on the Furuset, near where I live in the Groruddalen, and bathe with people from all countries – who live on the Furuset. There are few things that give me such joy and well-being in everyday life as being able to go to the swimming pool, which opens three days a week. 7th@item: inlistbox But it's only three days a week it opens at noon. 7, and then it's open for one hour to us ordinary people, because afterwards all the children have to bathe – and there's a lot of them. I would like to stress that whether people become good swimmers or not is about more than what we regulate into the school. Getting enough education is very important, and so are we in SV for, so that everyone learns to swim well no matter what kind of tradition they come from, and what other holidays they might have. As the representative Vinje explained, action has been taken in Oslo on this issue. Now Oslo City Council has doubled its hourly offer from 10 to 20 hours of swimming lessons plus some special training for those who need it the most. But to achieve all these goals, our different municipalities need to have enough swimming pool available, enough swimming pool for school education, enough for play and leisure time and enough for us adults of all ages. These facilities must be accessible to people with small and usual incomes. They're not today. It's little that's as expensive as going on swimming, whether it's a regular 25-meter pool, or it's these bathing countries that have come to the last few years. For a very long time it has been that private people have built large, beautiful bathing areas where it costs a lot of money. If you are a family that needs a bath, it costs well over $1,000, and not everyone can afford it. If the parties have such great faith in swimming as this debate shows, we must ensure that local politicians in the municipalities make the offers much more reasonable than today for our citizens. Both for the individual’s safety, in order to avoid drowning, and not least from a public health perspective, we need more available basins – and this is about money. Now that we save quite a lot of money not to arrange the Winter Olympics, we can prioritize this. In SV, we have very strong faith that we will improve both public health and the safety of the individual, both children and adults, by investing in swimming.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e562	First of all, I would like to commend my party colleague Abid Q. Raja for raising this question. This is, after all, a matter area stretching from the deepest seriousness to the greatest joy. Several have talked about the great pleasure it is to be able to swim, and the joy it gives is perhaps what we're going to talk the most about. Several have also been concerned with what this means in terms of public health, and it is an important part of this. In the left we had national conferences this weekend, and we talked a lot about poverty. We have launched 75 measures for less poverty, and one of the measures is that we want an activity card in all municipalities for children and young people who are in so-called low-income families. The eels were probably the ones who went in the bust to get such a need-tested activity card for children and young people. We believe that this should be available in all municipalities, and access to swimming facilities should be part of such an offer. We do not propose that there should be an allocation to the individual municipality; we want it to go through Freewill Norway – or at least through volunteering – and that it should be the ones to issue the activity card and fill the card with content. As many people have experienced, there are many actors here who contribute with volunteering and not least skills that are very important, and others have also indicated that the earlier we get in, the more joy it brings to the individual in a lifelong perspective. Another part of this public health perspective is the financing and construction of new installations, and a theme that has not been mentioned here is the tipping-off and tipping-key. I believe that in the future, when we get a new municipality map with a new municipal reform, we will also have the opportunity to build other types of swimming facilities, and that we can more effectively combine sports facilities and school facilities and get even better swimming facilities. In fact, there may be fewer, but in competition with commercial bathing areas, I think that is a necessary development. We, as politicians, may also have to tighten up a little bit. One of the perhaps largest bathing-related debates in Norway in the last year is well linked to a dome tower in Hamar. It is affordable that they would build a diving tower in Mjösa, but there are some challenges associated with it. Still, we're also going to pursue the idea of multiple diving towers, precisely because it provides an opportunity for activity development. But we politicians also need to gain more knowledge about construction and activity. It is also part of this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e573	As an old swimmer, I had to say a little bit in the debate. I commend Raja for drawing up a debate that has been going on for a long time. We must not forget that the election campaign campaign word in 2005 was that we should fill up, so we really have an anniversary soon for how long we have discussed it. What I miss a bit in the debate – I think it should be a premise – is that it might be parental responsibility number one to teach kids how to swim, and then it's a public responsibility to facilitate that. I'll get back to that a little bit. The swimming skills in Norway are a disaster, and that is what we must begin to take inwards. The requirements of the Swimming Association are, of course, minimum requirements, and we should remember that falling out of a boat in cold water, in angry seas, is something quite different than swimming in a swimming pool. There I think there have been many good points in the debate. Of course, it's about funding, and this is public health facilities of dimensions. There were some people up here who talked about being people's baths, and there's a lot of us who are, everything from pensioners down to young children. As far as funding is concerned, I would like to recommend that a project group be set up a little across departments, as these are public health facilities. The use statistics for swimming facilities do show that there are 10 to 15 pst. Of the time that goes to sport, the rest goes to the people. These are expensive facilities. I think making a standard solution would help the municipalities very much, because it is remarkable how most municipalities should draw their own swimming pool when you first have to build a facility, and thus blow costs into the weather. And as complex facilities are also complex, leaks and major complications are often experienced in the construction process. I think this is one of the areas where you might be able to do a job centrally with just creating a standard package that you're offering to the municipalities, where you also have contractors who know how to actually solve this in a construction site. There was mention of the tower at Hamar, it's a small step, but it shows how the costs can blow out of any dimension of some installations that have to be in water, simply. As I said, helping municipalities to find good solutions here, I think you'll at least be on the verge of finding good solutions. But it is, as I said, a combination of the fact that the school has to follow up its qualifications and have the competence to teach it, that parents have to be made aware of the responsibility that parents have to make children swimmers, and it is a general public responsibility to find a solution to how to build both within cost frameworks that municipalities can live with and how to finance the facilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e586	If the President is not very wrong, the representative Gunnar Gundersen has participated in the Olympics in 1976 as a swimmer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e589	That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e594	Then it looks like we're going back to the interpellant, the representative Abid Q. Raja.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e597	I would also like to thank the representative Gundersen for such an open and honest description of the swimming situation in Norway, and I agree with what he says. As for parents' responsibilities, I just want to repeat very quickly: Parents who cannot swim themselves cannot learn away, and parents who are poor cannot afford to pay for swimming lessons for their children. Then the public must take its share. I think this has been a nice debate, but it is now, after the debate, we have to deliver. The size has a golden opportunity to adopt minimum requirements. We have to adopt something we think is a minimum, I believe. We in the Left want to work with the Center Party and the Labour Party, which have promoted two Document 8 proposals, and with other parties that want to adopt something substantive. The councils and the government have the opportunity to take the necessary action, and the experts sitting up there in the gallery are ready to take the ball and follow up. To Councillor Røe Isaksen, I would say that we need to prioritise money to save lives. With regard to the definition of swimming ability, there was some uncertainty about the different Nordic countries having different definitions — but the essence of it is the same. We in Norway are the most qualified, and extraordinary efforts are also needed. I'd like to encourage State Council Horne to make a separate plan for immigrant women and swimming training. Equality is not just a matter of Nordic or ethnic Norwegian women, even migrant women are required to pay attention to the Council of State, and equality also applies to the equality of immigrants, and minorities are the worst in the country in terms of swimming. I still feel that both state councils are involved, and that's good. Some good steps have been taken, in particular by the Council of State, the Red Isaac, and I am today strengthened in the belief that more will come from both Councils. More earmarked funds for volunteering are good, and more needed. I want to end this interpellation – for my part – with a little personal story. All my three children, two girls and a boy, are by definition swimmers, and when my son, Adam, learned to swim two years ago, he uttered some words that I hope can become the word of reality for all children in Norway. Two years ago, as a four-year-old, he finally managed to swim after a lot of mass and effort and howl and spit and cry, as there are certainly too many other children. But finally he succeeded, and I said to him: Why did you cry so much in the pool, Adam, I was right next to you? I had saved you if anything were going to go wrong, you didn't have to be so scared. Then he looks at me very seriously – and I think it's one of the best moments parents can have – and he says, "I jed myself." He had saved himself. And that is simply where we want to come – that all children in Norway can say the same thing: We can save ourselves!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e614	I would also like to thank you for the debate. And then we're in the process -- not because of this debate, but we're in the process because this is a problem for which the government is concerned, and for which the majority parties and the cooperation parties on the Stortinget are concerned. We're in the process of interest compensation, phase it in faster, and give greater opportunities to build and upgrade swimming pools in the municipalities. We are starting to realize that some students, both children, young people and adults in Norway, have not had a real chance of participating. That is why we have a separate scheme – not a one-off one-off one-off one-off one-off one-off one-off one-off one – for this, which will continue in the coming years. And we're working on the competence goals for swimming training. It is very good that there is a majority for that on Stortinget, it is very good that you are impatient, but this is something that the department sent to the Education Directorate several weeks ago – or months ago. So we're on! So it's not like we're able to solve all of this for the next summer, and maybe not even for the summer after, but the goal is we're going to stop having the same debate year after year without getting any step in the right direction. If we take one step in the right direction every year, we've come pretty far in the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e629	This government bets money to save lives. After almost eight years with very many empty pools around the municipalities, this government has started the important work. It is – this has been allocated to the representative Kjenseth – from 2014 to more than 100 million. kr of Norwegian Tipping’s toys, which will be used to build and rehabilitate swimming facilities. The government also proposes $7 million for next year's budget, which the Minister of Knowledge was in. for swimming training for newly arrived minority language children, young people and adults covered by primary school training. We all agree that learning to swim is important, and that all children who grow up in Norway will receive swimming training. The most important thing we can do is to have water in the pools and swimming facilities in the municipalities. In contrast, swimming training for adults is not a national offer, but it is important that we focus on it. That is why we need to inform all families with minority backgrounds who are coming, how important it is to teach children to swim, and that they also need to participate in the voluntary offerings that are, in order to get swimming training themselves. That is why I want to re-examine how important it is to support the voluntary organisations. Many of them are important actors in the field of integration and are involved in swimming training for the minority population. Finally, I would also like to point out that we need to have offers of leisure activities and holidays for low-paid families, for children and young people, so that they can be able to participate and have the opportunity to travel on vacation, and not least to participate in leisure activities in everyday life. This is why it is important that we get in place and get more — as this government has done — both the national grant scheme and the big city funds, which now have an increase of 5 million. kr for next year's budget, in order to increase leisure activities, so that more people can experience holidays and also learn to swim.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e638	Case No. 2 and 3 have been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e654	The prevalence of non-infectious diseases is one of the greatest health challenges of our time. This will in the future lead to costs of treatment, follow-up, prevention, etc. increases radically, at least if you can't stop the negative developments that we've seen in recent years. A strategy for the prevention, diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation of non-infectious diseases, the so-called NCD strategy, has been developed for the period 2013-2017. This concerns in particular issues related to the cardiovascular, diabetes, coal and cancer groups. This is a very important work, which I support 100 pst., in order for us to be able to move on. But it is true that there are no strategies that are better than the means we use to achieve the objectives of the strategy. I'm going to stick to diabetes, because that's what's the main part of the interpellation. That's why I want to use it as an example of how important it is to get on with this work. In Norway, there are between 350,000 and 370,000 people with diabetes. 28000 of these are categorized within type 1, the remainder within type 2. The background that I was a little bit in doubt about the number of diabetes is simply that it's estimated that almost half of those who have type 2 diabetes, don't know if it's itself – you haven't discovered or been able to figure out that you have the disease itself. About 6,000 people get diabetes a year. Of these, approx. 10 pst, that's 600, type 1, and in that category it's approx. 250 children. Furthermore, we know that there are significant differences between type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes. But we know that although much can be done within type 2 diabetes, related to lifestyle change, etc., it is important to draw conclusions and look at parallel comparisons in terms of disease progression, to see how we can participate in taking action. If we're going to be able to achieve the goal of turning today's negative developments, we have to work along many different lines. I'll try to address some issues in the rest of my article, and I'll try to sketch it in a good way. Let me start with the prevention perspective. It is quite obvious that the most important thing — and most of the diseases — is prevention. What really benefits is getting prevention started early. Those who get type 1 will then be aware of how to deal with their disease. With regard to type 2, we know that many of the cases are pure lifestyle diseases, and then you can take action yourself. But then we have to make sure that we find out what the disease comes from, we have to make sure that the individual is made aware of how to improve his or her own life situation, and how to deal with his or her own disease course. For the other group, those who have already contracted the disease, it is very important to be able to prevent late complications and sensitisers. We know, unfortunately, that many people come so far that they have to amputate. We know that many people lose sight or get a much worse view. We know that many people, as a result of late complications, are having trouble working. Then it is important that we follow this up and make sure that things are arranged so that we can deal with the challenges that we will face in the course of the disease. The next one is information. Information to individuals is very important. This applies to both the prevention and management of the disease when it is obtained. Here, in particular, there is one group I want to make that it is important that we take clear and good action – and we also know that we are doing that – and that is the immigrant population. That's where we know that there's a lot of darkness associated with what's going on with diabetes. It is important that we start early on with good information about this problem, so that you can deal with this, and so that you can take the blood samples that are needed to see if you are at risk. There we have a job to do that in many ways we haven't been good enough until now, so I hope you make sure that we get started even better. Furthermore, I think it is quite obvious that you have great opportunities to play even more with user organisations. The peer work done in the context of diabetes is extremely important. No one knows a pathology related to diabetes better than those who actually have it. Those who live with this disease every single day are also those who literally feel the body how it develops. It would have been nice if, for new cases, you could also have had an equal work to deal with, ask the questions that other patients can join in and answer: How does it work? What did I do? How do I get control of your blood sugar? What measures can I apply for? What tools are out there? There it is important to use the Diabetes Association and build on the peer work. Some places you are in the process of treating diabetes, in order to be able to advise, to go in and help those who come in this situation, with treatment counselling, etc. It is a security for those who come in this situation, and it is important that we facilitate the situation so that this can develop further. Furthermore, we're going to do what's involved in treatment. It is important that we have the capacity in outpatient clinics to be able to care for this patient group as they get there and need assistance and help. We have to make sure the capacity is there. I know that the Council of State is concerned that these things are in place, but it is important that we also make sure in the future that, in the context of mission documents, we focus on the NCD strategy towards health businesses. Because it's critical if this doesn't work. Then a lot of the strategy will fall a little bit on rock. As far as research is concerned, it goes without saying that funds need to be allocated to these major disease groups, because the costs and costs will be enormous in the future if we don't get to do anything. I know that the government is doing a number of things. I know that the Council of State is working on looking at how we can implement the strategy that has already been put in place, in the best possible way. If we're going to get this done, we're going to have to make sure that we get the tools in place. Some tools are already in place. I would like to give a great deal of credit to the Council of State for, among other things, in the proposal for a State budget submitted, to have done something about the so-called minimum level of medicinal products. In the area of treatment for type 2 diabetes, several drugs were on hold because the old 5-million-dollar limit had been exceeded. It has been a goal for many, many years to raise this de minimis limit. Nothing has been done until this government has finally grasped it. One now proposes a five-fold increase of this – up to 25 million. kr – which improves access for diabetic patients to the best and most innovative medicines. That's what this is all about. I know that it is difficult for the Council of State to answer today whether or not to draw up its own plan. In some areas, the best way is to go on your own. In other areas, it could be going on about other things. But I look forward to the answer from the Council of State, and hope that will be a positive answer. What is important is that further work on the NCD strategy should ensure that user organisations, patient organisations, are constantly involved in making the preparations. It's those who have the disease, who know the disease best.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e677	The prevalence of non-infectious diseases is one of the greatest health challenges of our time. I am therefore very pleased that the representative Harald T. Nesvik is travelling the debate and highlighting the importance of having good plans to slow down the development of these diseases. A strategy for the prevention, diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation of four non-infectious public diseases, the so-called NCD strategy 2013–2017, was developed in cooperation with central user organisations. Although the strategy was developed under the previous Council of State, it is easy to adhere to the objectives and main arrangements for meeting the challenges of cardiovascular disease, diabetes, coal and cancer. The strategy has a broad approach. It shows the opportunities and challenges facing healthcare, and it points out that in the future we need to focus on cross-sectoral public health work and organisation to make healthy choices easier. I believe that the NCD strategy paints a good picture of where we are going, and how we can achieve the goal, but the health authorities and services can't do this alone. The whole of society across sectors and disciplines must take part in efforts to slow down the development of the major non-infectious public diseases. Much of the work that needs to be done is common to all four disease groups, but there are also some measures that will be specific to each disease. Therefore, the NCD strategy also has its own chapters on each of the four disease groups — also diabetes. These chapters were designed in close cooperation with user organisations and are based on the existing strategies for each of the diseases. I have asked the Health Directorate to follow up the NCD strategy. They have set up a plan to give priority to action, and they are doing their job well. Both users and service providers are involved. There are several processes under the heading of public health and population-oriented efforts at social and group level. In order for us to get even more speed in the work, the government will facilitate the developments we want in the services and in society. Among other things, healthcare needs to be improved to prevent, detect and diagnose disease as early as possible. And once the disease is revealed, the patient shall be offered proper treatment, follow-up and rehabilitation to prevent deterioration and complications. Following the Diabetes Strategy, national professional guidelines for the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of diabetes were developed in 2009. The guidelines are comprehensive and targeted at health professionals. They provide recommendations and advice on what is good professional practice based on available knowledge. It is recommended, for example: that all persons with diabetes should have examinations carried out by an eye specialist and there are recommendations on when and how often to do so. Success in patient conduct is at the heart of creating the patient’s health service. The policy is now chiseled out in three messages that we aim to promote for the Storting to next year. These are: a national health and hospital plan, a public health notice and one on primary health care. We're also doing a good job of rehabilitating. People with chronic diseases, such as diabetes, often need help and help to live a good life and master the life of disease. It requires multidisciplinary efforts and cooperation in all areas of health care and with other sectors. We will facilitate the improvement of the competences of the primary health service and the involvement of several occupational groups in relation to the permanent agencies. In this way, medical agencies will be able to offer closer follow-up and better training for people with e.g. Diabetes mellitus. In the context of a new public health communication, health-friendly choices will be an important area of action. Most departments are now involved in the notification process, as many sectors are responsible for organising healthy choices. Making healthy choices may, for example: Prevent obesity, which we know can have for diabetes, and healthy choices will also make it easier to live with the disease. In this context, the authorities may contribute by facilitating outdoor activities and physical activity, cooperating with the food industry in improving access to healthier food, and pursuing a tobacco policy that makes it more difficult to start, and easier to quit, smoking. In order to get good input into the public health report, I have put up several open meetings, and many have made good input on the ministry's website. Plans and strategies are, as the representative points out, important tools for making changes. I believe that government's commitment to a comprehensive health and welfare policy, and existing strategies and plans, now enable us to prevent more and work more holistically. Many patient organisations, service providers and municipalities have taken the challenge seriously and have started reverse operations. We have a good cooperation with the Diabetes Association, which gives the diabetic patients a clear voice when the NCD strategy is followed up and the NCDs are produced. As probably most people have brought with them, I am concerned about creating the patient's healthcare service. This work requires a good dialogue with patients, users and relatives. In the process of following up the NCD strategy, I am particularly concerned that the patient continues to contribute with knowledge and experience of his own life. The strategy is a common plan for the large non-infectious disease groups, and I have therefore also invited the four patient organisations in the NCD Alliance to a meeting on 7 November. At this meeting, all shall be provided with views on the follow-up. I think it's important that we facilitate new ways of working to create good and safe services for patients with diabetes. The NCD strategy is important, as is the work of the Health Directorate to follow up the strategy through a plan of priority actions. The major challenge, however, is how we can ensure that strategies and plans lead to changes in health care practice, and I also felt that it was the main issue of the interpellant. There is no lack of strategies, plans and guidelines in healthcare. What is missing is the follow-up in the ministry. The moment of truth is the health service’s meeting with the individual patient. There's a lot of variation, and there's too many randomness. If you ask a person with diabetes about what his or her needs are, the answer is likely to be to get early and correct diagnosis, closer follow-up by the prescriber and good advice and help to change diet and to become more active in everyday life, and to get proper medication and help with proper use of these as well as rehabilitation when necessary – simply to avoid getting sicker and getting help to master. The same needs will also be able to join the other patient groups that have their parts of the NCD strategy. Making a plan is easy, it requires resources, but it's not difficult. This will result in at least four plans — one for each of the large patient groups — containing many similar measures. What is difficult is to change healthcare practices to become more consistent with up-to-date knowledge and adopted strategies. This will be at the heart of the primary health service notification and national health and hospital plan. It will also be a main theme of the meeting with patient organisations on 7 November. So I can't answer a simple yes to the interpellant's questions today, first of all because I'm not really sure if it solves the problem that we're agreeing that it's necessary to solve, and because I just want to discuss with the major patient organisations what will be the best way to follow up the strategy. This interpellation debate is also a good opportunity to hear what Stortinget sees as a sensible way forward. You will, as I do, meet with demands for plans in the different diagnostic areas, and often become plans for strategies or new guidelines. But I'm sure you also often think as I do: what does this actually mean for the individual patient in contact with the healthcare system? Does this plan change the patient’s first meeting with his permanent staff when there is a suspicion of diabetes, coal, cancer or cardiovascular disease? I think these are important questions to ask. My ambition is to create patients' health care. That's why I want to challenge just the four patient organisations that are partners in the NCD strategy to join in and discuss what they think will be the right way to ensure that the strategy actually leads to change. I am very excited about the debate here today, also to hear the Greatness's experiences and views on what is the right way forward that actually leads to the strategy not just becoming a strategy, but to an actual change – at the moment of truth, in the meeting between healthcare and the individual patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e732	Thank you to the Council of State for your answer. As I said in my first post, it is not the plan for the sake of the plan that the undersigned has addressed. What I am asking is: how can we move on from a bottom-up strategy until we get tools in place, so that the goal and intention of the strategy that exists are realized? I am fully behind the articles of the Council of State. The most important thing we have to do here is to ensure that the content of the strategy that exists is implemented in healthcare. That's what's also the intention of my interpellation: to focus on that we've had a lot of strategies. The question is: how far have we come with these strategies? It's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's How does it come out – how do we get the message out? My goal is not to make sure there are many plans. My goal is to make sure that we get started and get on with this job – with detection, with prevention and with the treatment of the four major public diseases in which we are about to have a far too explosive increase. It's this one that's the main intention. As I also said in my post, the most important thing now is that the Council of State is playing with patient organisations, so that they can give their views on how we can move on. But I think we have to take inwards that it might be time to think a little bit outside the box. Perhaps we should look at: how can we use pharmacies or other actors in health care for example. blood sampling, etc. and counselling, which is more of a low threshold offer, so that more people can find answers as to whether you have the disease, and – not least – that if you have the disease, you can get advice and guidance. I think we need to make sure that we get better at communicating with, among other things. The immigrant population, to which we are unable to get out in a good enough way per day, to inform about the problem that is there, about the challenges and how we can get these tests, so that individuals can take control of their own disease — if you have one. Then, of course, we're not going to morbidize the population. That's not the intention either. But what I think we're going to have to put in place here is a low-threshold offer, because we can't solve everything through the fixed medical system. I believe that the pressure on the tenets is relatively high already today. I think we have to think alternately, dry to think a little bit outside the box. That's why it's so good what the Council of State says, that it's already invited to a meeting with the four patient organisations related to the NCD strategy. It's important, but the most important thing is to follow up what you agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e747	Thanks for the feedback on the article. That I have full support is important in this work. Questions related to research were addressed. We have had a great deal of walking, between both public and private actors in healthcare, which has resulted in healthcare21. In the context of the submission of proposals for the State budget, the government also presented a plan for stepping up higher education and research. Those who read it will find that the main lines of healthcare21 are anchored in the government's strategy. So to the important work of making strategies come true. In the weekend could a read an article in the VG of one of the fixed writers there. He wrote that he had a wound on his foot and experienced that he was told by his regular that it would take months before this wound was healed. He did not accept that, so he went to a private actor. There he met a nurse who silently wounded and recovered it in a few weeks. In the article he asked the question: Does this mean that public health services have now failed and that the future is private? I believe that this was the wrong issue. This article was not about public or private, it was about what the interpellant was about in its post now, namely that we have to think outside the box. When we develop the primary health service of the future, I think that the firm needs more colleagues. But it's not necessarily that they need to be doctors. They may well be nurses, with broad competence in these large, non-infectious diseases, which in a dedicated way, for example. may cause pain in diabetic patients, so that they do not develop in such a way that the next step is to remove the leg, for example: – this in order to get a broader and more holistic approach to these patients, to give good advice on what to do, and on lifestyle changes in order to live with and master the disease. What is – I think – one of the main responses to the work now being done with the primary health message is to look at: What should the future primary health service be like? How are we to ensure that in primary health care there is both competence, quality and capacity to meet the large patient groups of which the vast majority of those who will need healthcare will be part? How are they to meet their usual and daily needs in a good primary health service?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e760	When I was a young painter, we visited a paint shop in Germany. We quickly discovered that there were no paint boxes, and that there was no good ventilation or extraction. When we asked why this was missing – since we are used to this from Norway – we were clearly informed that it was not necessary, because the workers were enough of it, it was not their responsibility, and the health care system would be remedied if you got sick. The previous interpellation debate was concluded as follows: the parents are responsible for swimming training. There is, in fact, an entrance also to this extremely important debate that the representative Harald T. Nesvik has raised: who is responsible for this? Then one also sees the principal lines of politics, because where we have now had 26 minutes of almost continuous health care and repair, the Workers' Party believes it is more important that we spend the money where health is actually created – in schools, in kindergartens, where everyone lives. 250 million people have diabetes worldwide. Seven million people get diabetes every year. It is clear that we are going to repair, it is clear that it is important to help those who get it, but it is time to start preventing it. It is a pity that the Progress Party gave up in the budget negotiations and threw down the school fruit, which has evidence-based effects on prevention. The major cause of diabetes 2 is an excessive intake of heavy calories and obesity. This government has also been concerned with another thing that is described as a lifestyle disease, and it's mental health. It's not that one is not related to the other, and how is it for all the children who get such a lifestyle disease, who struggle with obesity, when they get to school? Amazingly many of these kids are being bullied. Unbelievably many of the children who are bullied for the appearance later become patients in the psychiatry, in the mental health system. Preventing disease by building sports teams, by providing cross-political solutions to the VAT compensation, which now means that sports teams have to pay VAT on toys instead of using it on activities for their children, means that when we were told no to OL, together we can get a wide-ranging commitment to create activity, to create adapted activity for all those who are unable to run so fast, because they have diabetes, or because they have obesity. Lifestyle diseases are about preventing, and then we have to prevent where health is created. I agree that we need such a plan as Harald T. Nesvik has outlined, but I believe that the most important part, the most important part of such a plan, must be about prevention – about preventing disease – and then part of the plan must be about repairing disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e773	Developing better diabetes care in particular and better chronic care in general requires that we involve both patients and health professionals and the overall health care at work. I think today's debate so far just shows that all the good forces must be brought together in this field, and I think Harald T. Nesvik raises a very important issue for debate. I think he pointed to many important aspects of his post. It has already been said very well about general public health measures and prevention. I fully agree with the last speaker on the need for preventive action. Then I am also very happy that we now have a government that actually strengthens the sport by 300 million. In this context, it is important to take into account the need to improve the quality of life and to improve the quality of life and the quality of life, in order to improve the quality of life and the quality of life and the quality of life, in order to improve the quality of life and the quality of life and the quality of life and the quality of life. However, my main focus in the article is not prevention, but it is care for those who have become ill. Among these are many young people. New 250 children are hit every year. I believe that in the work on the national health and hospital plan and on the notification for primary health care, it is important that we listen and facilitate specifically for the needs of children and young people. Young people with disabilities are an important partner. They are committed to ensuring participation and social equality for young people and young adults affected by chronic diseases. Their important contribution is to present solutions because they know the needs themselves. In youth, there are many changes in life. One moves from home, moves from the warden who knows you, and one moves from the friend who knows the disease, and who knows when a friend is in danger of getting an acute disease condition. In our request to the Prime Minister of Health in Stortinget to develop its own youth health strategy, which will address the whole range of challenges related to the health of children and young people and young adults. Here, the Minister of Health must also look at how we can meet the needs of chronically ill young people in health care even better in the years to come. I understand that the Minister of Health does not necessarily say yes to his own diabetes plan, but I am very pleased that he says so clearly that the work on the care of diabetes is an important part of the government's big messages that are announced next year – both on specialist health services, community health services and public health. Treatment, habilitation and care for diabetic patients are, unfortunately, a bit too random in healthcare today. The reasons may be many, but I would like to point out in particular the need to build a stronger and more robust professional care service in the municipalities. Very many of the elderly patients receiving municipal care services, either at home, in nursing homes or in nursing homes, have up to seven-eight active diagnoses. One of these is often diabetes. That's why we need to rust up nurses and health professionals better to meet these multi-morbid, sick patients. The life situation may deteriorate very rapidly for an diabetic patient if the treatment is not professional enough. We know that precisely diabetes patients are exposed to serious complications. A small wound on a toe, mentioned earlier, can cause the entire leg to amputate, and poor regulated diabetes increases the risk of impaired vision. Although many municipalities have diabetes nurses, who make good treatment plans for patients, we know that too much of those taking care of patients are lacking in health education. In the years ahead, we need to have a more conscious relationship with the building of competences in the municipalities. I believe that an important measure to meet this is the government's proposal in the government budget on advanced clinical further training for nurses working in the community health service, and to strengthen competence in general. An increasingly complex disease picture in the population requires a highly professional health service in the municipalities. Therefore, when the Minister of Health today invites us in Stortinget to make contributions to a better care for chronicles and diabetes, my most important contributions are summarised briefly: Listen to chronically ill children and young people, and make sure that we have a health service that equips them to live with disease, make sure to build up a more robust and multidisciplinary community health service with a high level of competence in chronic care
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e809	Life-style diseases are one of the major challenges we face in the Norwegian health system. It leads to many personal tragedies, and not least it requires financial resources from us. I thank the interpellant for an important discussion. He mentioned the challenge with our new countrymen. Every fourth woman with Pakistani background has diabetes. It is a 10-fold higher incidence than for ethnic Norwegian women. It is a problem to obtain information, and it is a problem to arrive at prevention measures for this particular group. Here, the Diabetes Association – the user organisation we are talking about – has made formidable efforts with good effect. They've had a huge impact field, especially here in Oslo, and there's been a cross-political consensus that investing in immigrant health and not least diabetes has been important. In the position of the Health Committee on the budget in 2012, which was in force for 2013, the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People’s Party agreed that the Diabetes Association should continue this information work, especially for immigrant and minority groups. In 2013, the red-green government also came up with a national strategy for immigrant health that would apply to 2013–2017. Then we got what very many people here have mentioned, the NCD strategy for prevention, diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation of four non-infectious diseases for this patient group. Last year – valid for the current year – the Diabetes Association received 2 million. to this important work for immigrants. The Health Committee thought it was a good priority of money. Then it's a little strange, I think, and the Christian People's Party, if we think this is so important that the two million are gone in this year's draft budget. I know this was a project, I know that the idea was a slowdown, but when we don't have any other option, I wish we continued with this until we had another way to reach this group, where there is the presence of diabetes in such a large proportion of the population. Then the Christian People's Party fully agrees that we must use other types of health workers in the work on diabetes treatment and prevention. I think nurses can do a more extensive job, and I think foot nurses are becoming important in this work. I think the patient organisations, who know where the shoe is pressing, are going to be really important. I believe in peer work. But I also think that we must then be willing to take some political action. One must be to prioritize money, the other must be to dry up some grips with regard to charges, for example. on sugar. For it is not only useful to provide prevention if we do not also take the unpopular measures — for example. increasing some charges — to ensure that we actually reach out with effective measures for this patient group, which will cost us more and more. One thing is what it costs us, another is what it costs of suffering – and resources in the community health service and in the specialist health service. Because we know that a diabetic often gets other diagnostics as well, like that. cardiovascular diseases, triggering even more resource use – providing a ‘spin-off’ for the use of resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e828	Thank you to the interpellant, who is addressing a disease that represents one of the greatest health challenges of our time. As the interpellant notes, Norway has undertaken to reduce the occurrence of premature death as a result of non-infectious diseases, including diabetes, by 25 pst. by 2025. So Norway has joined the World Health Organization's goal of the same thing. National strategy for diabetes and the NCD strategy outline good goals, but I fully agree with the representative Nesvik that a good strategy is not credible if it is not followed up with action. I would like to clarify: it is not the strategy that is not credible – it is the government and the majority that are responsible for the lack of action, which is then untrustworthy. If you look at the NCD strategy, it contains many concrete measures. It says about physical activity, and that one should carry out an information campaign for physical activity in 2014. I would like the Minister of Health to tell you a little bit about it. It says one should implement an open-air strategy. I would like the Minister of Health to tell you a little bit about it. I notice that one in the next year's budget cuts support to voluntary organisations that facilitate physical activity, with 15 million. kr. In the NCD strategy, it is said as one measure that one should consider how school day can be organised to ensure students an hour of physical activity every day. This is the same thing as the Stortinget fixed in the Public Health Notice. In the government platform, one of these targets was reversed, and only one of them is said to strengthen the work of physical activity. It's much more unobligatory. In ours, the Right, the Advance Party and the Left voted against the proposal of the Center Party to introduce an hour of physical activity every day in the school, within today's hour. When we also know that the government in the draft state budget cuts in support of health centres, it shows in my view a total lack of trust when they now seem to be concerned about reducing the incidence of diabetes and other lifestyle diseases. The NCD strategy identifies six main measures in the case of diabetes in particular: Norway should become a progressive country for the prevention of type 2 diabetes. The extent of unknown type 2 diabetes should be reduced. Delay is a reduction in the development of latecombs. Norway should become a transitory country for good and equivalent treatment of diabetes. Diabetic care should provide a strong user orientation. Particular attention should be paid to immigrant groups and others at high risk. All of this I think it's extremely important to focus on, and we're positive that there's a plan to follow up these actions, but I'm particularly concerned about the points. 1 and 2, that we should become a progressive country for the prevention of diabetes, and that the extent of unknown type 2 diabetes should be reduced. If we are to become a transitional country: Why, then, does an hour of physical activity not occur in the school? Why does one then cut into the scheme proposed by the NCD strategy itself: namely, to extend the free fruit and green scheme to the whole base? Studies have shown that only 3 pst are economically viable. students increase their permanent intake of fruit and green by 25 grams. Why does not a school meal set up? Why does a support for health centres and voluntary organisations engaged in physical activity cut off? How these cuts should help to reduce the incidence of diabetes by 25 pst.? I don't understand. The representative of Nesvik is right that much more needs to be done to ensure diagnosis, prevent the development of late complications, ensure good and equivalent treatment, strong user involvement and attention to immigrant groups. I'm totally in agreement with it, but it doesn't help if prevention becomes a balancing item. The causes of these lifestyle diseases are common: tobacco, unhealthy diets, physical inactivity and harmful use of alcohol. It was said by both the representative Harald T. Nesvik and the state council that we must now think outside the box. I would rather let you get into the box – the box called ‘public health policy and prevention’, so that we can use the school as the prevention arena, and take seriously the four major risk factors. Then we can get some of all the other stuff.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e889	First, commend the representative Harald T. Nesvik for taking up this interview. This is a major challenge, which has been mentioned by many. At the same time, I would say that this is one of the test pieces of whether we in Norway actually manage to create the ‘patient’s health care system. This challenges us both on capacity and on competence. Diabetes are two diagnostics, but, as many have been involved, it acts very differently from person to person. That's why it's so important that we manage to preserve the individual's experience of living with diabetes, preferably through a whole life course. We're at the top of the world for type 1 diabetes in children and adolescents. It's not lifestyle related, so here we have a job to do in getting us to know why we're at the top here. These are children and young people who are going to live with diabetes 1 for a whole life. As many people have experienced, other diagnoses and sensitisers can also be developed in a course of disease. Up towards 50 pst. get vision-related challenges, and we know that 11 pst. have kidney failure. For some, it has serious consequences, with dialysis and, in the worst case, transplantation. I was on World Day of Vision at the Blind Alliance last week. The Diabetes Association was a co-organizer to focus on just visual challenges like a late-onset. It is sad that some in Norway experience blindness or severe hypoaesthesia as a result of poor follow-up in the health sector in terms of vision. A problem that was also discussed was the Diabetes Register. Today it is voluntary to stand there. There will be a debate in the future whether we should turn it upside down and leave all those diagnosed with diabetes on the register – and whether it will be possible to reserve itself against it. It's probably an important debate, but not what we're going to spend the most time on. We know so much about who gets diabetes at an early age that we have a lot to do and not necessarily spend all the resources on registers. Screening is also part of this. I would like to pay particular attention to new technologies. Nesvik was involved in using more actors and getting a greater sense of competence. The eye is very important here. In the future, we can measure the blood sugar level using lenses — with all the possibilities it brings. The Diabetes Diary, which has been developed as an app, will also be a useful and important tool for the future. It has been developed by the National Centre for Interaction and Telemedicine. We are in the forefront of technology in Norway, but we have a job to implement it and put it into practice. They concern, not least, health professionals. I want to address a special challenge to the Minister of Health, and this concerns the training of health professionals in the systems we work with in the Norwegian healthcare system, and in particular in the primary healthcare service. The fact that patients and health professionals speak the same digital language in future becomes very important. We know that smart clock technology is evolving. We know that game technology is evolving. Especially for children and young people, this is very important. We know that many children today are among the most good at taking medication and having knowledge of their own disease. They can actually be used as motivation for adults. Food and nutrition have been on several occasions, and the sugar charge is a discussion we have to take. But when we come to the strategies here, in particular this with organisation, on which the representative Tone Wilhelmsen Troeen from the Right was in, is very important. We're going into a municipal reform, we're going to design a new primary care, and here we have to get to this interaction. Apothenics have been mentioned here, as a surface that can be used more, the competence of pharmacists, as well as the competence of opticians and nutrition physiologists – that we have used that diversity and that, in addition to the violent technological development, we can really help to create the ‘health care service of the patient’. Here diabetes is very suitable, because there are so many resource-intensive patients and especially many young patients who are about to apply the technology that we see here.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e913	Thanks to the representative Nesvik, who addresses an important theme, the prevalence of diabetes and national strategy — how to prevent it? The questions that lie behind are, are the measures that we have, right? Do they work, and what can be done? I am pleased with the Minister's good answer, and not least for the Minister's openness and the challenge to the Storting: What ideas and recordings do we come along with? I also want to thank the Minister for being so open in the dialogue with the patient organisations, because I think they are the key to any of this. I would also like to congratulate the Norwegian Diabetes Association, which was also mentioned here earlier. They have incredibly good websites for diabetics. Not least there is information in several languages about how to live with diabetes. It brings me to something that has also been discussed by others, namely that there is an excess of diabetes among immigrants. In particular, there are immigrants from South Asian countries — India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka — who have a significantly higher incidence of diabetes than ethnic North and Western Europeans. In particular, immigrant women are exposed to research from the Institute of Public Health. It's worrying. What can we do? We don't know much about why. You wonder if there are genetic factors and factors associated with the environment and lifestyle. Unfortunately, the Western diet has too much sugar and fat. It is therefore important to start early on with information, and preferably on an introduction course, for those who come to our country. I want to tell you about an exciting project in the Drama, where you're just working on prevention. It's called DiaHealth. It is a collaborative project, with Drammen kommune, Fjell Legesenter – here we have the location inside – and Vestre Viken HF at Drammen Hospital. This is particularly true for immigrant women with diabetes, and training is given on how to live with diabetes, not least in terms of living habits. Users must be trained in physical activity and healthy diets. You are working on developing models in this setup that can be transferred to other groups and other diagnostics. Then we talk about how to get to 'best practice'. There's something about this about getting things done. The Health Minister said in the speech that there is no lack of strategies, plans and guidelines in healthcare, and do we need more of the same? I want to say to the Center Party: you don't have to adopt things to get things to go to the municipalities. The drama municipality has now entered in order to have 1 hour of physical activity in the schools at school, although it was not adopted as a rule from the pulpit here. So the follow-up can be done anyway in the municipalities. My input, which is about to think a little bit outside the box, is to start in the nursery, which the representative from the Workers' Party was at. But the recording doesn't go on more fruit and green. The video is about increasing the skills of employees, because we know that diets with sugar and fat are one of the main causes of diabetes. It doesn't help to give people fruit if you don't know anything about why you get it, and what it is that actually creates a healthy diet. I therefore believe that it is not just health professionals who should have knowledge of the most important public diseases. I think it's important that both pre-school teachers and teachers have it as part of their curriculum. They have the pedagogics, they're good intermediaries. Maybe that's what we need, to create some good learning venues. It is not intended to go at the expense of e.g. math, but you can use math in pedagogics in everything from meals to physical activity, and educators can actually make it fun. We're in a situation where we know the cause of diabetes, but we're simply not getting rid of it. It's like an epidemic spreading. Instead of a plan, I would like a bank with the best practice that municipalities can use. There is something to be done about the impact of these measures. Research is needed, and my challenge is also addressed to the Minister of Health: too little research is being done on the impact of antidiabetic interventions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e928	The President then gives the floor to the inter-pellant, representative Harald T. Nesvik, who now has a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e931	Thank you for a good debate. I think I might need time to answer some things, but I just have up to 3 minutes. First of all, what Ketil Kjenseth said. I absolutely support everything – I agree with everything, both technology and the way forward. It's one of the things that could actually help us move on and get things out. I also think, as the representative himself had in mind, that the future lies in an app, where you actually read the eye problem yourself, send it to a doctor or an optician, who diagnoses and sees whether you are in danger or not. I think these things are coming. When we know that approx. Half of the 350 000-370 000 people who have diabetes, don't know about it, I think it's very important to put a lot of focus on that group, because the earlier you get in, the faster you can change things, and the faster you can make sure they don't actually develop the disease stage further. The representative of Otterstad – now I see that he had to leave the hall – challenged a bit related to what is involved in prevention. I could use my entire article to talk about prevention, but as I said, if I were to try to go through all the stages when I only had 10 minutes, it's limited in every single area. But I think prevention is very important. The representative Toppe was concerned that the government – I was saying – does not strengthen organisations engaged in physical activity. Well, that's exactly what the government is doing. This government has changed the key now and completed where the previous government did not do the job, and now made sure that it is transferred to civil engineering and to other things toying, which is the most important preventive aspect. Facilitating physical activity throughout the country has actually made it possible to deal with over 300 million people. SEK – 330 million. kr, in that order of magnitude. It's a little bit more than the 15 million that the representative tried to make a number out of. This sector is strengthened, and that is important. Physical activity in school is important. There is a fantastic work done in many places. You use physical activity in teaching. In many different schools, different measures are taken, without necessarily having to be decided on in this room to have them. The problem with the proposal of the Central Party was just that you should take away other education, and then you should introduce this one hour within the frame hour that was there. The problem is: what we need is good prevention, organisation, research, development — yes, we have to work along many axes. There I give a great deal of credit to the Council of State, who actually said he was willing to evaluate these things in cooperation with the user organisations. Here is the core: in cooperation with user organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e948	Thank you for a good debate, and thank you for many good and great input into the work further on the key health messages and national health and hospital plans, but also input into the work we are about to do with the four major patient organisations on the follow-up to the NCD strategy. A lot of different themes have also been addressed. I'll touch some of them. However, it is clear that prevention is essential. The government is working on a new public health report. In particular, the new public health communication will highlight the link between physical health and mental health, where mental health is to be equated with physical health. But we're not just waiting for a big message. There are also many very important concrete measures in the state budget currently under consideration, on public health. The main public health work takes place in sectors other than the health sector, because one starts earlier. There was a broad consensus on this in the context of the already adopted communication on public health. One of the most important public health challenges is social inequality in terms of health, and if we go into it and look at what's the main explanation of it, it's very often related to education and work. So if we're going to work to balance social inequalities in health, from a public health perspective, the government's proposal to bet on quality and content both in kindergarten and in school is crucial. Now we're going to go into the year of open-air life. This is also followed up by a strengthening of the funds for outdoor work of 10 million. kr, while the Ministry of Health and Health transferred our money to the Ministry of Climate and Environment, just to reduce red tape and allow the money to reach what is intended, namely open-air activity by voluntary organisations. The typing key is reinforced, the VAT compensation is good. That's 396 million. Access to walking and cycling paths and a number of other measures that are important to follow-up on public health. Information work related to physical activity was requested by the representative Toppe. It's on. The Health Directorate has the campaign in at least 30 minutes, which is just about to help motivate the population to have 30 minutes of physical activity every day. But it's also important to have a health service that takes care of and not least helps those who have already had diabetes to live with it and master the life of diabetes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e965	Case No. So 4 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e981	This interpellation is about an important and serious theme, about a culture and practice that probably many people do not believe can exist in a well-developed public health system and regulated working life as ours. Pregnant hospital workers are at risk of being squandered because they are pregnant, showing examinations. But no one dares to stand out publicly. Recently, a hospital in Austland was the subject of the Equality and Discrimination Office for discriminating against a pregnant doctor. The office concluded that the doctor at the hospital did not get an extension of his vicariate, as usual practice is, because she was pregnant. The ombudsman referred to gender equality law § 3 and was forbidden to ask questions about pregnancy during a job interview. It is not the first time Norwegian hospitals have been designated by the Equality and Discrimination Office. Since 2001, the ban has regularly dealt with cases involving pregnant hospital workers who think they are discriminated against by their employer. It's no surprise that the Equality Environment has previously characterised hospitals as hamsters, because this isn't about single events. A work environment study by the Association of Young Doctors, which was discussed in the Newspaper of Spring, showed that about 15 p.m. in pregnancy and in temporary settings, the pregnancy and/or parental leave has had a negative impact on working conditions. 12 pst. by a fixed addition it corresponds to the same. Over 3,000 lizards had responded to the investigation. The article in the Newspaper on the investigation discusses how the doctors contributed some very alarming descriptions of how it is to be pregnant and work as a doctor in Norwegian hospitals. Doctors tell about leaders who have told them that ‘as a new employee, you should not get pregnant if you want to extend the vicarium’, and about a doctor who told outright about the boss that ‘he would tell me if it had not been illegal. Prior to his pregnancy, he was delighted with my efforts.’ Furthermore, about the boss who said, ‘Next time we hire a young man’. Several people write in the study that they have been asked at the job interview to plan to get pregnant in the near future, i.e. violations of equality laws. A woman writes that she was offered a job, but that the offer was withdrawn when she informed her that she was pregnant. Several told me that they didn't get the vicariate extended after the maternity leave: "Now I don't dare get pregnant more times since I don't have a permanent position". One even writes that she «elected abortion for an extension of her position». ‘These are statements that shake me deeply and deeply. Such conditions cannot be maintained by Norwegian hospitals.’ These aren't my words, but Johan Torgersen, leader of the Younger Doctors Association, who said this in the June Newspaper. In this case, I totally agree with the leader of the Younger Doctors Association. Such conditions do not allow Norwegian hospitals to live with. Even if what we get to hear about, it can be disapplied that there are individual events, it is not. The magnitude over time indicates that this is an expression of a system error in Sjukehus-Noreg. When 15 p.m. say they have negative experiences in connection with pregnancy or permissives, it is simply crazy. It's no longer a culture, I'd say. It's been the culture itself. Medical doctors are largely added to temporary settings. The centre party believes that the use of temporary positions in the workplace is a practice, and will fight against such a development, whether it concerns state-owned hospitals or other and more low-paid professionals. For hospitals, the investigation shows that 50 pst. of all hospital doctors are temporarily added. Of specialisations, so-called LIS-like, the total is 90-95 pst. temporarily added. On average, hospitalisation is temporarily added until they are approximately. 42 years. So much use of temporary health settings makes them much more vulnerable. Temporary settings over this long period of time create uncertainty and thus also a danger that a person will not be notified of any adverse relationship with the rental. This is a danger in all sectors, but will undoubtedly be an additional risk in a hospital that treats vulnerable patients, and where there may be questions of life or death. In the Norwegian studies, three out of ten respond that temporary additions have a meaning for notifying the leader of critical conditions in the operation of the health care establishment. Two out of ten say that temporary additions have a meaning for notifying the leader of dissatisfaction or irresponsible patient safety. Four out of ten say temporary additions have a meaning for notifying the leader of an unsatisfactory or irresponsible working environment. This shows a continuous weakness of the system. When there are so many temporarily added, the bad warning routine creates and is a danger to patient safety in Norwegian hospitals. Since this interpellation was submitted, the social partners have been asked that specialisation be established. It's a pleasure. It shall apply to new legislating. I hope this will help to reduce the amount of temporary additions in the long term. I want to ask the Minister of Health and Health today what the government is doing to reduce the use of temporary health settings. At the same time, temporary settings are not the whole problem of discrimination against pregnant women. The investigation showed that 12 pst. patients with permanent hospitalisation experience discrimination in pregnancy and perm, compared with 15 pst. of the provisionally added members. Several have called for action from the Minister of Health and Welfare. In the case of temporary placements in hospitals, the current Minister of Health and Health has demanded action from the former Minister of Health and Care. When hospitals regularly break the law by discriminating against pregnant workers, there is something today's health and care minister has to take the most seriously. We have enough information. Now this illegal practice has to end. We must take seriously the fear culture that repeatedly turns out to exist, despite all the celebrations. That no one – absolutely none – of the many discriminated women's legions has dared to stand up when the matter was mentioned in the media, says his. We know that many laymen do not dare to warn about poor patient safety of fear of losing their job. The medical students have also appeared as a group with notice that many people feel used to work, and about the additions that happen unregulated. Many people are told that if they try to warn, they break their loyalty obligations. One thing goes on anyway: few or no one dares to talk about what they experience, public and under full name. They are afraid that standing up with names and images will have consequences in their careers. What they've experienced is so stressful in themselves that they can't handle a media load as well. Temporary additions reinforce the problem, but fixed addition doesn't solve everything. The fact that pregnant female lizards are bypassed during pregnancy and leave, in my view, must have consequences for the responsible person. I agree with the association of younger doctors who stated that one of the reasons why the practice has been established is that hospitals in Norway have a high level of management, with little dialogue and cooperation between employers and employees. I believe that the lack of urban rental is also an explanation. Urban rental in all hospitals and all major hospital wards, with both human and financial responsibility and professional responsibility, must soon become a reality. I look forward to hearing the answer from Minister of Health and Health Höie to the Stortinget today. I hope it's an answer that Groningensretten Höie had been happy with in 2010, when he addressed the exact same issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e1028	The last question I can answer immediately yes to. I would have been very pleased if in 2010 I had received the answer I myself give today, for one has come, fortunately, decisively further in this field since that time. The representative Kjersti Top travels two important issues, as I see it. One is about discrimination against pregnant workers, and the other is about the danger that doctors in temporary posts will not report adverse events. First, of course, it is totally unacceptable if hospital staff are discriminated against as a result of being or have been pregnant. As owner, I assume, of course, that hospitals follow the law in all parts of their business. When I have previously expressed that there is no need for new control signals here, it is because I see no reason to repeat what has already been said very clearly in these areas. I met the regional health companies on 17 June and also in a meeting with all the hospital directors the week after. I said very clearly that pregnant women should meet with respect and trust, and that discrimination on the grounds of pregnancy and maternity leave and adoption is illegal. When employees experience events that are contrary to non-discrimination, I would strongly encourage them to take it up with their leader and possibly their trustee. I am pleased that the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman has been very clear on matters in this area. At the June meeting, the hospital directors said that issues relating to discrimination against pregnant workers were given a lot of attention in the employee interviews, in response to the trust-chosen and in their improvement and quality work. Regional health enterprises have discussed the results with the management and the trustees of hospitals, in the context of the work environment survey referred to by the representative Toppe. They have discussed how to work together for cultural change and the working environment. Health South-East RHF has also been in dialogue with the Nursing Association and the Medical Association in this work. I would also like to draw up this year's agreement between the Specter and the Academics/Norwegian Medical Association that doctors in specialisation should be employed in permanent positions as early as possible, and by 1 July 2015 at the latest. I hope that this will solve some of the challenges and uncertainties raised by the Working Environment Survey of the Association of Young Doctors in terms of pregnancy and leave. Regional health companies have informed me that the management programmes of hospitals focus on how the employer can help pregnant women to get to work as far as possible. Good staff management is central to the company's own management and development programme. Hospitals shall also provide advice and guidance on how managers and employees can support pregnant colleagues, and trustees and protection services shall follow up the working environment of the departments. So to the other problem, doctors in temporary posts don't report accidents. I would also refer here to the agreement in this year's tariff negotiations where the Specter and the Academics agreed on a model to ensure more doctors' permanent posts. The right to be heard and to be informed about critical issues is essential for the quality and patient safety work. These are areas that I will follow up in the dialogue with the health regions and with the hospitals. There shall be no doubt that Norwegian hospital staff shall have real freedom of expression without fear of represals of any kind. A good healthcare system is based on trust and transparency, and it requires that employees are safe and able to say from when there is something that is not the way it should be. It follows from the Working Environment Act that hospitals should facilitate the alerting of staff to critical situations. This is also in line with government ownership policy, which of course also applies to specialist health services. It would be contrary to the Labour Environment Act to penalise an employee who warns of critical business conditions. For example, I can mention Health-Bergen HF, which has established a system of alerts appointed by the Hospital Labour Environment Committee. The Ombudsman shall, inter alia: assist alerts who do not want to notify the employer themselves. It is a management responsibility to ensure that employees actually and effectively have freedom of expression. I trust that the leaders in the hospitals understand the value of this and follow it up in a good way. I can also show that the hospitals in Health South-East have a common communication poster that encourages just transparency, clarity and accessibility. In the business meetings held in 2012 and 2013, it was emphasised that there is a great deal to be done to ensure that opinions from own employees are contrary to the loyalty obligation. In the event of criticism, hospitals shall assess whether the opinion should lead to changes or whether it should be met with a counter-post. Hospital staff who have firsthand knowledge of what is happening in the post or department have an important voice in the public debate on healthcare. Hospitals should and must bear with critical questions and their input is crucial to improving the quality of the patient’s supply. At the same time, I understand that the hospitals decide who is to speak on behalf of the company. There is no distinction between hospitals and other establishments. But there are some constraints. The warning must be sound, must not conflict with the obligation of loyalty of the worker and must not compromise the obligation of professional secrecy. However, these restrictions should not be seen as a weakening of the worker’s freedom of expression. As mentioned above, the threshold shall be very high in order to claim that the obligation of loyalty has been breached or that an alert was not sound. I would also like to mention that hospitals have a number of reporting arrangements in which employees have a part of the obligation to report anomalies and incidents that lead to, or could have led to, damage to the patient. Such messages are important both in the individual case of patients and in the general work of the specialist healthcare service on quality and patient safety. It is therefore necessary to consider these notification mechanisms as part of the total right and obligation of employees to express their views. With regard to the issue of permanent posts for specialised doctors, the parties mentioned above have agreed that LIS doctors should now be offered permanent posts. I therefore hope that the specific challenges this has given us will be less relevant. I am concerned that the specialist health service behaves neatly as an employer. Pregnant staff must be cared for and must feel confident that the employer respects their rights. Freedom of expression is a fundamental value that the employer must respect and actively use in improving the quality and safety of the hospital. I don't think any of those who have been present at the meetings I've had, both with the directors and the directors of the health regions, are in any way in doubt about what I think about these questions, and it's also given them very clear signals that I expect this to be followed up at the different levels in the health regions. It is also the case that patient safety and quality are very closely linked to health, the environment and safety, and I am equally clear, not least in meetings that I have regularly with the leaders of the sector, that this is a leadership responsibility. There's nothing you can delegate to others. The senior executive must take a clear responsibility to ensure that health, environment and safety are ensured in the activities. It is also about the health, environment and safety of individual employees, because they do not have a culture of health, environment and safety, nor do they manage to create a culture of patient safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e1066	I thank you for your answer. I am pleased that the Minister of Health and Health states that discrimination against pregnant women is an unacceptable practice – it should just be lacking. I hear what has been said, that there is no need for a new steering signal, but that the Council of State has been in several meetings where he was very clear to health professionals, what he thinks is an acceptable practice, and that they have been encouraged to deal with this with those who have been trusted, etc. My concern is this: I am absolutely sure that many other health and care ministers have done exactly the same thing as Höie in meeting healthcare professionals. Nevertheless, he has not been able to change the practice that has been established for many decades in the health sector. When this happens via some events, there are not enough consequences. I could have wanted the Minister of Health and Health to be clearer about follow-up. It's okay if you've had a meeting in June and July. But will the Minister of Health and Health ask that a survey, talk to those who are actually pregnant in hospitals and investigate this on their own initiative, and not just through a work-life study under the auspices of the Medical Association? This is a long-term work and a need for a clear signal. I'm afraid the signal is not clear enough. I could also plan to listen to a comment about quiet rental, which I took up. I didn't get a response from the Council of State. The greater the distance between the person working and the boss, the easier it may be to have a culture of discrimination by, for example, pregnancy. The second theme, which relates to openness and the right to speak, I've had an interview about the Storting before. I could say a lot about that. It makes me happy that the Council of State is clear that health care providers have the right to express themselves. It's actually a foundation party, so it would just be missing. The problem here is the practice of communication regulations in hospitals. They themselves define what loyalty is meant by, and there is a great deal of focus on the re-enactment. We can come back to that another time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e1079	I believe that I have been and am very clear to both the leaders and the directors on these issues in the meetings we have, and I have them quite regularly. But I have no intention of assuming their management responsibilities by saying in a way that this is something they can push over to the Minister of Health, for this he will take care of. This is a leadership responsibility that needs to be dealt with locally. It will be completely impossible for the Ministry of Health and Welfare to deal with this as a question that we follow up with individual employees. I think the representative understands that too. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary that that signal so clearly comes from me as the owner, who is also the leader, to the top leaders, that this be followed further up in the organisation. So it's that it's important for local management. The representative Toppe knows that I have also followed up with the companies. But it's not that the employees only have the management to contact in these kinds of situations. I believe and hope that the employees have such good confidence in their managers that they will dare and address these kinds of problems if they arise. But if they don't, we in our hospital have a very well-organized trust selection device for all the different groups that are available in the hospitals, that an absolutely good way to take this up. In addition, we have security agents who work very well and systematically. Now it may well be that the representative Toppe does not notice any difference between me and the former health ministers – I will not make an assessment of that. But I am very pleased that when I meet with the security officers and discuss with them, they give feedback that they notice differences – that health, environment and safety are now getting more and more attention from management. They say that they believe it is because there is now much more clarity about this from the Ministry of Health and Care and from me as Minister of Health and Care. When they give it feedback, I think it shows what was my main point: if we are to change this in a good and systematic way, both in terms of system, culture and management, it is primarily a management responsibility, and then you have to start at the top. Speaking of this, we are now working on our own big message on patient safety and quality, which we aim to promote for the Stortinge before Christmas, precisely to invite the Stortinge to discuss patient safety and quality as a matter of its own in Stortinge, as the top body in healthcare.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e1092	Interpellant points to a problem that is partly significant in many enterprises — especially in jobs with many women. It is a challenge for us as a society, for the workplace and for the individual that so many workers work involuntarily part-time or in temporary jobs. Not least in the health and care sectors, this is the case. Today's interpellation concerns doctors and the fact that as many as 50 pst. by hospital doctors, working in temporary jobs. The Stoltenberg II government last year promoted several legislative proposals aimed at bringing about an unfortunate and unacceptable practice related to temporary and part-time work. This interpellance coincides with an important public debate right now on how to look at employment in the future. The government has sent out to consult proposals for changes to the Working Environment Act, such as: calls for the introduction of increased general access to temporary employment. This has been met with great scepticism and resistance both among the groups that this interpellation addresses, the doctors, and among many other workers and their organisations. The Workers' Party joins the criticisms made by the Hearing Officers. Our goal is to reduce the number of temporary jobs compared to what we have today – and not to have more. It is the Minister of Health who owns the hospitals and who is also responsible for specialising in doctors. There are mainly three categories of doctors in Norwegian hospitals: turn doctors, specialised doctors and superiors. The training of doctors in hospitals starts with a tour, which is the first part, but lack of such jobs has made it difficult for medical students to get work. An important measure for better working conditions both for this group and for doctors in general could be to increase the number of turns, as many have mentioned, but to which the Minister of Health has so far not responded, at least not in the budget. The Medical Association, in its consultation response of 16 September, states to the government's proposal for temporary employment that if the law should be amended to allow this to be done, at least an absolute limit must be set for the duration of a worker's temporary employment. The association points out that the employee will be offered a permanent position after a period of time. This is important in order to be able to protect workers. The Medical Association also concludes in its consultation response that they perceive that, overall, aggravating working environment can be achieved with the scheme proposed by the government. Another reason why both doctors and hospital staff generally need permanent jobs is that this helps to improve patient treatment and patient safety as well as improving the working environment. A hospital is a large and complicated workplace where you have to work in teams, based on a shared responsibility for patients and loyalty to the hospital to provide the best care for the population. If we are to succeed in doing so, doctors and other hospital staff must have genuine and strong access to their workplaces. In the future, we will experience that people and competences will be the scarcest resource in the health sector. Then we have to work purposefully and wisely to be able to recruit sufficient dedicated people with the best medical competence for work in large and small hospitals and in primary health services in municipalities throughout the country. We need to have great ambitions for how to apply new technology, new medical knowledge, and how to take advantage of larger parts of the working day at Norwegian public hospitals. Such an extension of the working day, and therefore activity, must take place in close cooperation with the employees and their organisations. At that time, the working conditions of those who are to carry out these important tasks are crucial for our success. Therefore, it is so important that we can have a close and trusting relationship between the health partners. And that's why it's also important that we have the power to see the whole of what we're doing in this area. I hope that this interpellation debate can bring important elements into the further process that will focus on, among other things. working environment and working conditions, hopefully in the interests of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e1111	Thanks to the representative Toppe who raises important questions, and not least thanks to the Minister who has good answers and shows that he is addressing the challenges. Let's say that the specialist health service is supposed to be a clean employer, everyone's earned. Pregnant staff must be cared for and not least feel confident that the employer respects their rights. It is therefore good to hear that hospital directors meet with the Minister that issues relating to discrimination against pregnant workers are given considerable attention in employee interviews and in meeting trustees. This is part of the improvement and quality work. And let's say, it's unacceptable to discriminate against pregnant women. I am also pleased that this year's agreement between the Specter, the Academics and the Norwegian Medical Association confirms that doctors in specialisation should be employed in permanent positions as early as possible and no later than 1 July 2015. This will probably lead to some challenges, not least the uncertainty shown by the Working Environment Study of the Association of Young Doctors in relation to pregnancy, and not least leave. But it's a utopia to think that there won't be temporaryity in hospitals. There will always be a need for temporary workers precisely because of pregnancy, leave and not least that hospitals have many in education. However, it is important to reduce the number of temporary jobs. I want to stop warning of serious incidents and adverse events. Freedom of expression is a fundamental value that the employer must respect and actively use in ensuring the quality of the hospital. I think it is serious if doctors in temporary posts do not report in case of serious incidents. It is an obligation to express and warn about critical issues because it is essential to improve quality and patient safety. It is reassuring that the Minister will follow this up in the dialogue with regional health businesses and hospitals. There can be no doubt that hospital staff should have real freedom of expression without fear of reprisals of any kind. A good health care system is based on trust and transparency, and it requires that employees are safe, that they can tell from when something is wrong. The opposite gives you uncertainty, and it spreads doubt, and you're not sure if you can go to the hospital. According to the Special Health Service Act § 3-3a, health companies must also immediately notify serious incidents to the State Health Authority. Hospitals shall have systems for managing abnormalities and adverse events. In the evening post in June, which is referred to here earlier, there is a notice of doctors and hospital staff being exposed to represals when they report errors. The head of the Norwegian Nursing Association, Eli Gunhild By, says in the article in the newspaper that she recognized herself in this, and tells of nurses who say it is difficult to tell from when something fails in Norwegian hospitals. She believes that doctors are trying to protect colleagues who have made mistakes, and thus themselves are part of the problem by preventing quality development. For the Right, it is important to create a culture in hospitals for reporting adverse events and not least a culture to improve practice. This is about many hospitals perhaps being afraid to be open. An open hospital gives a good reputation, as a representative was here today. It is a misunderstanding that a hospital loses its reputation when a mistake is made. It is when the error is not corrected that the reputation is weakened. As a member of several corporate boards, I have often been told by trustees that there are many deviations in the system that are not addressed. Some of the culture I think is the embedded fear of making some mistakes and taking the consequences of mistakes. But we don't want conditions where hospital staff have to be insured on all the bows and edges to avoid being cancelled, demolished or relocated. It's a management responsibility to follow up employees whether they're permanently added or temporarily added – that's how we can improve culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e1135	The representative Toppe raises two important questions in his interpellation with the Minister for Health, and the Progress Party believes it is unacceptable that employees are discriminated against on the basis of pregnancy. The attitudes of pregnant doctors, to which Toppe refers in her interpellation, are unsustainable in Norwegian working life. All employees in the Norwegian working life shall meet with respect and confidence. The study presents opinions and attitudes that are contrary to our modern working life, of which we are so proud – a welfare society that takes care of our employees and facilitates the work of the different phases of life. The health sector, like all other organisations and enterprises, shall deal with Norwegian laws. Discrimination is clearly described in the Equality Act as being illegal, and hospitals should be aware of it. Getting pregnant is a natural part of a woman's life and of course to be respected and organized in the workplace. That is why I am pleased that the Minister of Health is taking this seriously, and that he has taken it up with the hospitals and continues to focus on this in order to combat poor attitudes in the working life of the doctors. Temporary employment may in some cases be a necessity of working life. The barriers to employment in temporary posts may be smaller. It can provide room for more people in the workplace and give them the opportunity to demonstrate their skills and skills. However, the Progress Party believes that permanent employment should be the general rule in Norwegian working life. Strong tripartite cooperation between employers, employees and authorities has proved successful in ensuring predictable framework conditions, necessary moderation and ability to convert. This is also evident in the negotiations of the year. Specter and the Lege Association have come to an agreement. Specialisation doctors – as also mentioned by my colleague Örmen Johnsen – should be employed as early as possible, and by 1 July 2015 at the latest, in a permanent position. I hope, like the Minister of Health, that this can solve some of the challenges presented by the Young People's Association study. The Progress Party has always been committed to protecting freedom of expression. Fear is a inhibiting culture, which does not create renewal and improvement in the workplace. We're going to have transparency in Norwegian hospitals, we're going to have systems to enable employees to report critical issues. The legislation is so clear and must be respected. The doctors are important contributors in order for hospitals to meet society’s demands for quality, availability and efficiency, and we also need doctors who report critical situations. It is only in this way that we can get a better working life for the doctors and a better service for the patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e1154	I want to thank the interpellant for a very important interpellation. My former colleague Laila Davøy, who was sitting here on the Stortinget for many years, asked a question in 2012 to the then Minister of Labour, not the Minister of Health, about the percentage of temporary employment in Norwegian municipalities, in the public sector and especially in Hospital-Norway. This is not a new problem, but it is a common problem. In addition to the fact that many have temporary posts that go far beyond the rules of the Civil Service Act, it is almost as if they are seasonal workers in the public sector. For a temporary employee, it is difficult to address this, because you are afraid that you will not get a permanent post. The current Minister of Labour replied to Laila Davay in 2012 that there was no overall overview of the amount of temporary staff employed in Hospital-Norway. There was only one estimate where one had an overview from Oslo University Hospital, where they weren't quite sure of the numbers, because Oslo University Hospital is special because they have a lot of fellows and researchers in addition, so they might assume that they were a little bit out of line. However, the figures showed that there were exposures on the medical side, there were substitute doctors on the medical side, there were educational positions, and there were those who were permanent employees, as well as fellow students and researchers. There is a solution to this, thinking Christian People's Party – like the Workers' Party. It is clear that fixed employees and not least tour sites will defy something. At the same time, we believe that we need a thorough review of legislation on the use of different forms of employment. A large proportion of those in temporary jobs are women, and many of them are also referred to part-time jobs. Women shall not live under such conditions in Norwegian hospitals as the interpellant addresses. 15 pst. Of those who have been pregnant while working in Norwegian hospitals, negative experiences have been associated with pregnancy and leave. There's nothing else to say about it than that it's an unculture. Rules must be in place to ensure this for employees. I have worked for many years in Norwegian hospitals and will claim that this is also a management challenge. If that's the way that employees, whether they're doctors, nurses or whatever it is, don't dare to alert either in terms of employment, procedures or patient treatment, then we have a big challenge in terms of how we're going to get better. When people are afraid that alerts will have consequences for their careers or further jobs, the whole basement of Health-Norway is undermined. That is why I want to challenge the Minister of Health to address the management challenge in Norwegian hospitals, not only at the top level, but also in the case of middle managers and department managers. This is a lead that must be laid down: there is no way out, there should be an opportunity to alert, and there should be no penalty in the case of alerts. I have no doubt that there are cover operations also for those who warn, because you would like to point out fine results, good patient treatment and good reputation. But at the end of the day, if we keep going on this blizzard, there's no one else but the patients and we're the communities that are losing on this. That's why it's a big challenge for us to tackle it. We're going no further than to the famous Oslo process to look at the different attitudes and perspectives you had when the work organisations were alerting something and the management meant something else. Then we have a challenge to figure out who's talking credible.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e1165	I would like to congratulate the representative Kjersti Toppe on promoting this interpellation. It's important to discuss this. We have also discussed alerts in previous debates here in Stortinget in the last year. Discrimination we also need to discuss further. The whole debate here shows what challenges we are facing. But I want to have a slightly different input into this in today's debate, because I fully agree with what has been highlighted here so far. At system level, I think we need to discuss both the role of regional health companies and the whole situation around them as employers, as well as the training of doctors. I believe that after the counties were deprived of ownership of the hospitals, the recruitment process has been a little voiced in health companies and has been too much placed in the HR departments, Human Resources, and in the temporary agency department and to a lesser extent in the management of hospitals. We're going to create the healthcare of patients in the future, and there's the competence of employees that's incredibly important. Here we've been neglecting ourselves for the last ten years, especially recruiting specialists, we see, and we're now struggling in many areas to meet the needs we have. We will have the opportunity to discuss this in the future when we look at alternatives to healthcare companies as a governing body and owner. When the committee was on a committee tour in Australia, we were told about a medical training course that has undergone a transformation in recent years. This applies to both intake criteria, where they now open to 25 pst. is included in more criteria than just grades — I think that’s also a discussion we’re going to go to Norway — and where those who are admitted on the basis of more criteria do just as well in education. In addition, they are short on basic training in medical training, and Bachelor’s degree is the admission criterion, regardless of whether it is real-time or not. But all those who have gone through medical training continue in a five-year specialisation course, and everyone has permanent employment. It gives you a different place, and it also gives you other possibilities. And that gives the employer completely different obligations. The organisation of specialist training is linked to the fact that the 17 specialisation courses have their own college. The doctors are in work, but they get their education at special schools. This leads me to the fact that we have to discuss the specialist directions in Norway as well. It is not sustainable to face up to the future with a large ageing population and not having health care professionals — or geriatricians, which we soon do not have in Norway. There are also other types of education we should look at. In Australia, among other things, a specialisation direction in district medicine, which I think is something we should discuss also in Norway. We now see how Tromsø manages to recruit doctors after they have received medical training in North Norway, so here we are facing a little bit more systemic debates, which we have to bring in. And as the representative of Bollestad was in connection with unculture and management challenges, I think it's a bit of the same debate. In order to bring the new generation of leaders into the health system, we don't just need the absolute theoretical good; we also need to look at almost a specialist education for health managers. Where it should be, and what it should be, is also important to discuss. Again: Thank you to the representative for promoting this debate. It has many dimensions in it, and it is particularly serious that young women are exposed to such treatment, and as we know, it is in women's dominated professions in the health sector that we have a special responsibility to bring this unculture to life.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e1179	I would also like to thank the representative Kjersti Toppe for an important interpellation. It's a well-known issue, but it gave us the opportunity of a happy experience, and it was hearing a government council from the current government talk about the problem of temporary work. It delights me, because the tone from the government to now has been the opposite in other matters of temporaryity, where the government facilitates more of it. I believe that the Minister of Health here is on the right track. There are a lot of important reasons to do something about the situation of doctors, which we are talking about here, but also in general in our healthcare system in terms of temporary employment. One is about the predictability of individual employees, that young people should have the opportunity to plan a life, establish themselves and lay the basis for getting on with life in a way that is difficult without the security of permanent jobs. The other side is what we have been very much involved in this debate, the power conditions that arise from the widespread use of temporaryity. We have, as the interpellant pointed out, ugly examples of discrimination against pregnant doctors. It is good and important that the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman has reduced this, but we also know that the threshold for individuals to contact LDO is high. There is every reason to believe that there are also many examples of discrimination in Norwegian working life in general — and certainly in hospitals — that go under the radar. In addition, skeptical power relationships, whether we like it or not, mean that it becomes more difficult to be alerts. Although the call for everyone to warn about relationships they don't like has to be as strong as a temporary doctor as someone who isn't, we know that in reality this has something to say for how much we put up to people dare to say from. This, of course, makes it clear that the recruitment conditions for just doctors have an extra dimension, because it is closely related to the issue of patient safety. The Minister of Health knows that well, since he himself has addressed this in an earlier interview and has just highlighted that issue. I think the representative Kjersti Toppe has some important points in terms of the prerequisites for doing something about this problem. I think it needs more than just a good governance dialogue. It is about the fact that Norwegian hospitals have become an organisation — or rather more organisations — that is difficult to manage, with many links between the floor and management. That is why the debate on local management is relevant, and that is why I am also concerned about the extent to which the signals the Health Minister is now telling us that he is giving will reach. It may be more complicated in this sector than in some others. However, we have some good experience. In my view, the previous government did a good job when it came to putting a necessary pressure on higher education institutions to bring down what is a widespread use of unnecessary temporaryity there as well. Those numbers aren't good enough yet, but they got better in the last period. It was due to the effective use of an active governance dialogue. It's important and necessary. The letters of assignment to the institutions were clearly followed up by those who did not deliver. In addition, the Ministry of Knowledge provided the tools needed to follow-up those who did not deliver, for example. by establishing new governance parameters – which is a terrible word for a good action – namely a survey of the extent of the duration of the temporary period. Thus the Ministry of Knowledge and the Council of State Kristin Halvorsen was able to follow it up carefully. I hope Bent Höie will succeed immediately. It would be nice to hear even a little more in the Council's last article on how he intends to follow up this governance dialogue in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e1192	Thank you to all those who have spoken, and thank you for taking a distance from today's unculture in Norwegian hospitals, where pregnant corpses are discriminated against, where there are many temporarily added, and where there are many who fear to express themselves because of the consequences. I would like to express my very agreement with the representative of Audun Lysbakken at the end. I call for a more concrete follow-up from the Minister for Health – how he will follow this up in the future – except for the signals he has had with the regional leaders. This is a leadership responsibility, many have said, and I agree with that. It's a leadership responsibility, regardless of what kind of management system you have. One has to look at how Norwegian hospitals have been run. It is far from the regional leaders to the surgical department of e.g. Haukeland Hospital. It's a great distance. And when we have a practice -- many call it an unculture -- that has settled for many years, it needs more than a corporation talking about it. I demand more powerful tools to reverse the practice that is out there. I want to be positive, and I'm glad that everyone has the same goal, but I'm actually still quite concerned about this, because I'm one of those who gets a lot of feedback anonymously about today's practice. We've also seen studies that show that there's a huge problem. We can all talk about this not happening, but it happens out here and now, and it's imperative to change it. But when it's a leadership responsibility, sit the top leader in the Ministry of Health and Welfare. We also need to be clear that this is a responsibility that the Storting is taking the most seriously. Some of the problem out there is that a lot happens in the hidden; some do not appear in the statistics. And finally, I would also like to mention that there is a small paradox that some parties are to reduce temporary health settings, but to increase them for other professionals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e1203	I am very pleased that the Storting is also clear on these issues, just as the government is following the point of the government platform to work to reduce the use of involuntary part-time and temporary in the public sector and to work to establish a full-time culture in the labour market, which is part of the government's platform. In that work we have now received a very good drag through the agreement negotiated between the Specter and the Medical Association. Specter is responsible for the role of the employer in the specialist health service, and the mediation result is clear that, among other things. specialised doctors shall be employed permanently at the start of their specialisation as from 1 July 2015. Templates shall be drawn up for these contracts of employment, and templates for cooperation between health regions and hospitals shall also be drawn up, and a new category of posts shall be established, called ‘medical specialist’, intended for doctors who complete specialist training until they become employed in the post of consultation. The transition to superior employment is not automatic; they must of course apply to the position as superior. This will be very important, and it is also this that has been the main challenge, that it has been clear from the owner that one wants to find that solution, but finding solutions has been a responsibility for the social partners, and the responsibility of the social partners has now been taken, and a good solution has been established. Then it was interesting to hear Mr. Tove Karoline Knutsen's articles on the Working Environment Act, because I understand that it is sacred to the Workers' Party. However, the developments described in this debate have occurred under the Working Environment Act which is sacred to the Workers' Party, and the issues raised in this debate are also not affected by the changes sent out at the hearing of the current government. It won't have any consequences for the questions up here today. I am very happy to receive the invitation to address the leadership challenge. It's already done. When it comes to the issue of tour sites, there are some — especially in the political environment — who are calling for them to be increased. It's a good discussion, but I would like to remind you that those who give professional advice on this issue in the Ministry of Health and Welfare give the opposite advice. Both the Health Directorate and the Health Regions say that we should reduce the number of turns. I disagree with that, and that is why I have not done so, and that is why I have also started a work to get a new and up-to-date assessment. Because even though the best professional recommendations say the opposite, I question the assessments that have been made and will have a new assessment of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e1216	The debate on substance is closed. 5 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e1232	Norway has a unique media diversity. On the newspaper front there is a bunch of locals, regional newspapers and national media, and the Nordics are the world's most newsreading people. Few things are so busy with Norwegian newspapers' telephone receptionists that when the newspaper rarely gets to the subscriber and morning routines with coffee and newspaper are destroyed. What is in the paper is usually discussed around the lunch table at work or at the dinner table at home. It is a part of setting the agenda and creating a debate. We always find something we can annoy ourselves with, engage with, or be shaken by. We read about people who have children, get married or go out of time. The newspapers offer a rich range of news that we can all take part in, and it's impossible to imagine a everyday life as a politician without newspapers. In the meantime, journalists also reveal abuse of power, crime and transfers of money that the public needs to know about. We are to be proud of the Norwegian newspaper flora. It enriches us as a nation, strengthens our democracy and builds trust between us as citizens of society. When it comes to broadcasting, we're also privileged. We have a great variety of TV and radio channels, which are uniquely international, especially given that we are few in this country, and that Norway is a small language area. To mention one example of how lucky we are: I visited Austria a few years ago, and there they could tell that German RTL was the largest channel in Austria. In Norway, we have heavy news editorials at both NRK and TV2, and the diversity of broadcasting in Norway gives voices to many who would otherwise have been silent. It provides an offer to the population that is extremely valuable. Large values, many jobs and increased interest in Norway are being created in the world. We have one of the world's most well-functioning media markets. So we have assumptions that many other countries can envy us. The Nordics are among the foremost to put new technologies into practice. We have a highly educated population with a good economy and that quickly changes habits. Thanks to good state support schemes, successful media policy and not least foresight and competence of Norwegian media leaders, editors and journalists, we have achieved a lot as a nation. For example, I want to do this. bring forward the good self-determination system of Norwegian media through PFU, as well as the strong presseetic work of Norwegian media, at the Norwegian Press Association. This is also unique internationally. No other country has such a free and independent system of self-determination. In my view, we have a press that holds a very high standard both professionally and ethically. As most people have now come with it, there are dramatic changes in people's media habits and in the media industry. The traditional paper newspapers and the NRK were before our leading news sources, but now the landscape is different. Many people retrieve most of their information from the Internet and social media, and we have undergone a media revolution. Many are now their own editor, and it's almost free flow of opinions. Freedom of expression is strengthened as a result of this, and the world is getting smaller, but the new everyday life is changing us and the way we consume news. It also creates pressure on freedom of expression in new ways: the danger of monitoring, the eternal function of the Internet and the professionalisation of communication are some of them. Threats and harassment are widespread and lead to the withdrawal of many from the public. We see with this development perhaps more clearly than ever the need for the edited word and a responsible press. The new media everyday challenges the payment models that have so far financed journalism. Many journalists have already lost their jobs both in Norway and internationally. Only during the last year, 2014, the journalist has recorded in his survey 352 journalists who have lost their jobs due to redundancy in Norway. If nothing is done to meet this development, it can represent further pressure on journalism, which will have a negative impact on our democracy. In my view, it is important that the National Assembly should take responsibility for freedom of expression and journalism. Both the crisis in parts of the media industry and the need to find new offensive responses to strengthen Norwegian players in international competition mean that across the parties we must try to find solutions that can help to strengthen the free word and the printed word. The government's proposal for a government budget is not an invitation to such a process, rather on the contrary. Cut in production subsidies, frozen NRK licence, cut to the Institute for Journalism and the VAT question put on hold may be the exact opposite of what both industry and Norway need. I am surprised that the government chooses these handles. Either it's a signal that you haven't understood the crisis that's now being played out in parts of the media industry, and how fast the changes are happening, or you've been stuck in ideological dogmas. Both parts, in my opinion, are bad. I want to put this interpellation to lift the joint responsibility we have in the national Parliament, but also to challenge the Minister of Culture on the steps taken in the State budget. In comments about this, the Minister of Culture insinuates that Norwegian media are not independent. It is a claim that has upset many, and that goes on the integrity of Norwegian journalists loose. I challenge the Council of State to either withdraw or complain about the claim. I would also like to hear the Minister of Culture's views on mediaism in the state budget. It mentions the parts of the media that are to be covered by any new common low rate exclusively as pdf or e-papers, i.e. simply copy that paper newspapers. This is not what the industry has asked for, and this will not be of great importance, but it may be very important to impose VAT on the printed word – on paper newspapers. I would like to challenge whether it is correctly understood that this is only about copies of the paper newspapers. The government says to start a work on notifying low-income households against ESA. I am asking the Minister to answer if she has come to realize that the bulk of the population now, at the latest at the Left in Today's Business today, is clear that you want a rate of 0–0. Nevertheless, the government is committed to 8-8. The question is whether the government should not listen to what is the will of the majority of the population and also start a work to notify 0–0 – not 8–8. Finally, what could we think of? Instead of discussing a cut in the production grant for Norwegian newspapers, we, a large majority, would like to discuss an increase in the production grant. We know that it hits right both in the nationwide opinion papers and also in the small locals. Several local viewers have actually been launched in recent years. So instead of discussing 8-8, we will discuss zero VAT and how the Stortinget can thus facilitate a continuing strong media diversity in Norway. Instead of putting down all state aid to the Institute for Journalism, we should have a debate on how the new media everyday challenges media ethics, and how we can make it easier to strengthen that work. Instead of cutting the NRK's offer, we would like to discuss how to strengthen the multiplicity of supply to the entire population – especially to our children – and we would like to discuss how we can more fully ensure that the large international players, who make huge money on the Norwegian market, also contribute to the Norwegian community through taxes and contributions to production. In the way of this, only the government stands.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e1262	The representative of Arild Grande asks me two questions. The first is if I know ‘a responsibility to ensure a strong, differentiated, free and independent press’. The answer is a clear yes. This is my main task as a media minister. The press – or editorial media – is one of the key elements of public space infrastructure and democratic dialogue. It is therefore the constitutional responsibility of the State to ensure that an ‘open and informed public conversation’ is called the ‘infrastructure requirement’. We have an obligation to provide an open and good infrastructure for the exchange of news, information and views from all parts of society. Without this exchange, democracy cannot function. Norway is sometimes presented as a kind of adventure country, blessed with natural resources such as oil and gas, which has made us rich. Unlike other countries in Europe, we have so far been proud of the worst results of the financial crisis. We are cutting high on living conditions surveys, on infrastructure and well-being. And we are cutting high on democracy and diversity. In such a blessed, but in the large context quite unique situation, it may be difficult to see the real value of a free press. The real value – how vital it is with the independent reporting, discussion and criticism of the press – can only be seen when it becomes apparent, in conflict, under pressure. We see this on a daily basis from conflict areas around the world, and we see it as a threat to undemocratic regimes. It is therefore important that we use the good times to ensure a free and independent press, so that it can be a guarantor of democracy and freedom of expression even in times of urgency – whether they should come. This is a cheap insurance policy for the future. Grande describes the ‘distant prospects’ of many media houses, with falling advertising revenue and down-distant warnings. And he asks in this context his second question: What measures can the government propose to contribute to a continued ‘strong, differentiated, free and independent press’? The media industry has worn off for a long time. For example, newspapers have fallen steadily since 1999. This is therefore not a situation that has arisen overnight, but is the outcome of a long-standing development. Despite this, I have to remind the representative of Grande, the red-green government did nothing to solve the biggest and most acute obstacle to industrial conversion, namely the discrimination of distribution platforms in the VAT system. The main challenge of the media industry is finding its place in the new digital economy, finding business models that can complement and eventually replace those that the newspapers have been based on for 150 years. I believe that Norwegian media houses have a unique opportunity to succeed in this. Few other countries have such a highly educated population, with a good economy, well-developed infrastructure and a great willingness to use new media services. The main government can therefore do so by providing industry with framework conditions and space for action for development and innovation. It is the industry itself that has to define its place in the new media economy, this the government cannot do. But we want to make this possible, among other things. by ensuring that public instruments are effective, targeted and non-discriminatory publishing platforms. We have already changed the direct media support with effect from this year. The new system of production grants for news and news media is platform neutral. This means that grants no longer depend on or are intended solely on the basis of paper publication. This is a very important change, because we now have an aid scheme that leaves it to the industry itself to decide how and on which technological platforms the content is to be disseminated. We want to do the same with indirect media support and will therefore notify ESA of a common low VAT rate for paper-based and electronic newspapers. This will be a major boost for the entire media industry and will facilitate the innovation and development of new digital services and payment models. The introduction of a uniform, low VAT rate for paper and e-papers is, in practice, unique in the European context. No other country has done this. The largest proportion of the paper reader income still comes from the paper newspapers. The Government therefore wishes to introduce a transitional arrangement for the paper paper newspapers of a duration of five years. In other words, the industry will have a tax relief over the next five years. In the long term, i.e. where digital subscriptions are the current mode of sales, the government’s solution will also mean that the media industry receives a positive treatment in the charging system on a sustainable basis. Together with the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Industry, I am now looking at how to define e-news and how to design the transition system for paper newspapers. This will also be a theme for the forthcoming dialogue with ESA. And to clarify Grande's questions about what to define under this: that we have used the term "e-news", of course does not mean that the new VAT system will be limited to PDF copies of the paper newspapers. We need to find a demarcation that is principled and forward-looking, and that is the work of the Minister of Industry, the Minister of Finance and the undersigned. We believe that these measures will promote innovation and development and help the media industry through the digital transition. The matter is now under discussion in the Grand Duchy, and will be the subject of budgetary negotiations in the usual way. I welcome the outcome of Storting's treatment. At the same time, the government has announced a reduction in direct media support. This is also followed up in the draft budget for next year. In a dynamic and adaptable sector, the development needs to be managed by the actors themselves – not by the size of state support. It is an objective of the government to reduce the dependence of the press on state support measures. Already today, the production refund exceeds 30 pst. of the revenue of the largest beneficiaries. The fall in the circulation and advertising income of the newspapers may make this proportion even higher. My starting point is that the press can be very freest when it stands firm on its own economic legs. Although we have long traditions of living with a state-subsidized critical press in Norway, a high level of dependence on State aid can be conservative. This is unfortunate in a period where the industry needs most of all innovation and adaptability. In the long term, this may also weaken the ability of the press to perform its critical role in the debate on society and thus also the editorial independence of the press. Another promise that the government will also follow is the point of the government platform to limit the ability of the NRK to use its robust economy to weaken the activity base of free institutions. In the hearing of the NRK poster, many pointed out that the offer of free online news by the NRK affects the transition of commercial operators to digital payment solutions. This is therefore something that will be addressed in the upcoming NRK Storing Message. As part of this work, the Ministry will launch a study of NRK's services, and in particular NRK's online news and timeliness services. In this regard, we will consider both the competitive impact of NRK services and the positive impact of the service on the public. Another measure I can mention is that the government will bring together the supervision of purchases and mergers in the media sector under the supervision of the Competition Authority. Today, as you know, two different supervisory bodies are dealing with the same issues, collecting the same information and making the same assessments. This is unnecessarily expensive both for the state and for the industry. At the same time, we should not forget that producing newspapers is quite different from producing furniture, clothing and white goods. Media is not only a business, it also plays an important democratic role. Therefore, we need own rules on ownership concentration in the media sector, but we need to ensure that both the rules and their management are as effective as possible, and that they do not impose unnecessary burdens and constraints on an industry that is already facing major challenges. We want a viable, diverse and independent media sector to give us knowledge, perceptions and ideas from all parts of society. We want a press that we can trust, and that we can receive impulses from and break our own views against. The government wants media to contribute to an open and enlightened public space and an active democratic debate. I think all parties can agree on this. Then we will continue the debate on how best to achieve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e1311	I thank the Council of State for the answer and am pleased that the Council of State knows a responsibility to care for media pluralism in Norway. That is why I was also very excited about the continuation and the answers that the Council of State would provide. First I have to say that I am responding to the claim that the red-green government did nothing to meet the needs of the media industry. Firstly, the red-green government increased production aid in each state budget, which contributed to the fact that several local authorities were established in that period. But then the Council of State speaks to itself when she claims that there were no things done, for the next example she mentions when she says things she wants to do – and has done – is the platform-neutral production grant, that you not only have it reserved paper newspapers, but that you also have it on digital publications. It was a work that was started by the red-green government, and Hadia Tajik was the first government council to take this up with ESA. So she speaks to herself at best when she says that there were no things done by the red-green government. Enough about the story. What this is primarily an invitation to discuss is: What can we, as a national assembly, do to strengthen journalism in Norway, to strengthen the Norwegian media diversity and to strengthen Norwegian actors living in the midst of a world championship every day? There were relatively few answers from the government. I'm glad the Council of State says that e-news doesn't mean just pure copies of the paper. That's probably how it gets understood, so it was a necessary clarification, and I hope it can be clarified in government documents. A follow-up question is: Will the Council of State take the initiative to widen the scope for discussion of what should be the demarcation within a new model, regardless of whether you land at 8-8 or at 0-0? There was no answer to my question as to whether the Council of State is reading the will of the majority of the population and will take an initiative to notify the principle of equal value added tax rather than to determine a percentage. I think the government council meeting with the Storting will meet a reality where you'd rather want 0–0 than 8–8. I record that the Council of State has also not commented on my question about her claim that Norwegian media are not independent. It was an opportunity for the Council of State to either withdraw the claim or complain, but I hope that the Council of State will be able to say something more about it later in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e1324	It's an advantage if we try to represent correctly what each of us is saying, then you don't need to worry about what's being said. I pointed out very strongly that what I said was that the red-green government had not delivered on, was subject to VAT. I did not mention production support and attempts were made to get a notification in order to achieve platform neutrality in this area. What I specifically mentioned was the work on VAT. Even former Minister of Finance Johnsen said in this Chamber that there was no possibility of anything being done, and on the question of having done something about it, the answer was relatively good, that no attempt was made to do it either. That is what the criticism is about. This is one of the most important areas. The clear signals I have received from the media from day one since I joined exactly one year ago are a strong desire to achieve platform neutrality in terms of the use of VAT. For today, as the scheme works, there is VAT on the digital services and not on what is on paper, so that the state instruments counteract the innovation and innovation that the press is asking for. One point to this with delimitation: we have a good dialogue with the industry about this. It is important for us to get the widest possible feedback from the industry about where you really see that it would be natural to get a delimitation. I am also familiar with the various documents that have been drawn up, among others. by MBL, and this is completely dependent on what ESA also provides from feedback. Our dialogue with ESA will be crucial for the notification here as to where this demarcation will be located. My starting point is that we are now, of course, listening to what the industry is saying here, and then it is my responsibility, together with the Minister of Industry and the Minister of Finance, to contribute to a good delimitation, which is forward-looking, and which responds to the challenges that this digital revolution really represents. I'll help with that. Yes, I'm listening to what's going on in Stortinget. Now, what level of VAT is needed has not been dealt with in the Stortinget. It is only now that we have occasion to discuss the budget. We have put forward our proposal. It is in line with what we have actually promised, both in the opposition and in the government statement, Sundvolden. I am proud that we have been able to come forward with this proposal, and then we are going to discuss this when we are going to deal with it in the Grand Duchy in the context of the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e1333	The market alone does not guarantee media pluralism, we, as political authorities, can choose to do so. Norwegian democracy is based on the fact that most people are to be constantly informed about important issues and positions in the social debate — national, as well as local. Thanks to the large number of editors in autumn 2013, several editors were relieved and had enough room to continue the changes required to meet the readers’ new media habits. Editors and their media leaders have demonstrated the ability to cut costs and not least have been driven by the development of digital and innovative solutions for their media houses. With the government’s new media policy – or proposals for it – further personnel cut will be forced forward. It will affect the editorial work, which, of course, affects content and possible cut in the number of publishing days. In 2004, the Stortinget decided to extend the freedom of expression clause of the Constitution, including: the following last point: «It is for the authorities of the State to facilitate an open and informed public conversation.» The state is therefore required to work to ensure freedom of expression and diversity in the media. Several EU countries are now introducing mechanisms to ensure media pluralism and freedom of expression. In the worst case, Norway and the new government can do the opposite. The question of VAT is primarily about the future of journalism, diversity and democracy. Fundamental societal values are challenged if freedom of expression is weakened. Now, in the Labour Party, we put our trust in Stortinget, and that we together in a completely different way than the government understands the seriousness of the situation that the media houses are facing. Finally, I would like to quote Didrik Munch from the National Media Association: «To continue the principle of zero VAT will be a very good way to end the celebration of the Constitution.»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e1363	Freedom of expression is weakened, democracy is under pressure – big words are used when we are discussing press support, a support of about 2 billion. kr, and where the proposed reduction, which is what we're discussing most right now, is 50 million. kr. The proportion of the debate and media coverage around the reduction has been given is perhaps not surprising, but worth staying a little while. Former editor in charge of VG, Bernt Olufsen, asked yesterday the question of his own condition: Do we manage the support in a good way, or do we use media power to achieve better framework conditions? The debate also appears to be the 0.3 pst. the reduction in the total turnover of Norwegian newspapers appears to be a state or not. Freedom of expression and democracy – well, never has it been easier to speak, nor have more nordics ever published their own opinions in the extent we see today. Every second it tweets, thousands of blogs are shared and created, web stuff is published and commented on. The time for the twin editor to decide what would be tomorrow’s talk is over. We also heard the representative Grande say that freedom of speech is better than ever. Then he says immediately afterwards that there is greater pressure and even more need for editing. It seems like you just woke up and you're a little bit confused. Before the summer, the government took the initiative to change the device by introducing a ceiling on the production aid, which would release funds for a different device. The two largest beneficiaries of direct support, Our Land and the Daily Newspaper, would receive $7 million. kr which could be distributed to more but at least as important small and medium-sized newspapers. This redistribution from those who get the most from before, to those who get little, unfortunately did not get a majority in the Storting. Now that we are calling for a reduction in this year's budget, it is in line with the party programmes, the government platform and the design of a completely modern press support policy. Well, so important is the work we continue and want to do with a conversion of the VAT system. The representative of Grande, the interpellant, said that the VAT question has now been put on hold. It's surprising. That's how the press has been doing with a dome for eight years, and now there's a presentation of a possible solution. A common low VAT of 8 pst is proposed, while in the twelfth hour the red-greens move around and all of a sudden they are 0 pst. a solution. I think the ratio 8 and 0 best can be described by 8 years with red-green government and 0 results in the VAT question. The most comprehensive approach now being taken is the introduction of a common low VAT rate, regardless of whether the subscription is online or on paper, thus removing one of the major barriers to innovation and transition to digital media. The current system without change does not promote innovation, it does not facilitate the transition to new platforms. Rather, it appears to have centered the newspaper structure and delayed a necessary transition process from paper to digital platform. To preserve today's image rather than to think innovation means we're going to be wrong. It's always been that you say that now it's going faster than before, but now it's going really fast. Several media houses say that the perspective is more often months than year when talking about and planning for innovation. No one knows when the next torpedo hits, whether it's called Google, Facebook or Netflix. But it's not a goal to preserve today's situation. We need a policy that is forward-looking and modern, not out of date at the moment it is adopted. Then I would also remind you that even with reduced support of 50 million. kr, as proposed in the State budget, it will be converted into approx. NOK 700,000 per year. journalists in newspapers receiving press support, in comparison with e.g. agriculture, where each annual work receives about NOK 430000. If we see the press as a patient, the patient may not be in top shape, but it's not for death either, as we get the impression now. Today's arrangements have more impact on the respirator than they have on a targeted and timely treatment that is really required. The time has come for a modern, forward-looking press policy, while my impression is that the opposition's criticism and proposal for solutions is a preservation carried out with the gaze firmly attached to the slowly dying paper newspapers.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e1386	The media industry is undergoing major changes. There have been no areas of culture and business in the last few years — and at least in the last ten years it has been under a workers’ party government. We're talking about a technological revolution where the content distribution on paper is under intense pressure – even under a working party government. At the same time, new platforms can be seen to take over. I am pleased that the Labour Party is now addressing this debate. I'm glad we get the debate in Stortinget. And that is not least an important debate. The Progress Party is committed to the functioning of the media policy and of the printed and free word. But the fact that the Workers' Party does not get on the track until after eight years is funny. It happened little during these eight years. The developments we have seen up to now have not been unknown either to the Progress Party or to the Labour Party. We've been trying to draw up the discussion before. Normally, the Workers' Party is a party which traditionally defends VAT. VAT is the income of the community. Now they're saying zero value added tax – 0–0. Yes, we will see when the budgetary procedure comes, if not they must also find the means to cover the Community's costs. The fact that we've come up with equal value added tax on both platforms is a long step and a simplification for the media industry, and it's going in the right direction. Nor should we forget when we discuss mediaism, that two to three years ago the media companies themselves proposed 8 to 8. They proposed 8-8 to Stortinget, and they proposed 8-8 to a workers' party government, but did not hear. Only now do they hear, and then we go in the right direction. What is digital, questions are asked about this in the main hall during the debate. It's an interpretation. I want to say that pdf is digital, but I also want to go further and say that VG+ and Dagbladet+ are digital. The discussion of where the limit goes, we have to get into Stortinget. We have great knowledge as politicians, but as I said, we know little about the future. We know little about how the future of digital platforms will evolve. Often the political decisions come after evolution, especially when we see that technology goes as fast as it does; it comes forward. Do we, as politicians, like to follow up with decisions? I doubt, but I wish we had knowledge and were at the forefront of the industry. Time has also shown that within the industry there is absolutely no agreement on all questions and answers. So the industry cracks. They have different challenges. The little papers have their own challenges, the big ones have their own, and they're competing against big brother NRK. When we see that the NRK is strong on digital media in the West, we know that they are fighting the small locals. When we see that the NRK is strong on all platforms, we know that they are fighting the small media companies. We're facing this challenge, and we have to be in the forefront. We also need to take all the information that comes from the industry to us and treat it in a positive way – and not least listen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e1409	Thank you. Then the prime minister also records that the press lodge has now been manned!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e1414	It's good that we have big brother among us! Real freedom of expression and a free and independent press are prerequisites for a healthy democracy and a living social debate. The media's traditional funding models are under pressure. From having a media market where paper newspapers competed with each other with different basic political views, globalisation and digitisation have created a completely new market situation. The media market, which has been largely protected by languages and national borders, is now globalised and Norwegian media players are facing international competition in the fight for citizens’ time and money. In this picture, good framework conditions are very important for national media companies that have ambitions to deliver quality journalism. Local media are important cultural carriers, which contribute to living communities, and ensure that the breadth of views is reflected in public vocabulary. The nationwide, regional and local media play together and provide a broad spectrum of societal debate. This is important that we are able to put good frameworks around, so that we can have them in the future as well. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the press support is adapted in such a way that it also incorporates a changed media everyday. We have registered that the government is also proposing cutbacks in the press support this year. We experience in the Christian People's Party that there will be an attempt at rematch. This was something the government also tried on last year. It lost that case, and we expected that one would not try again and even put in a bigger cut than it did last year. I hear Kårstein Eidem Løvaas say that if you had followed the government's advice a year ago, you would have had the opportunity to redistribute these funds to smaller actors. It is pointed out that our country and the daily newspaper would lose $7 million. NOK, and think if you could use it on smaller newspapers. It's a little bit like 'find five errors'. Because if we had followed the government's advice, we would have had less money to distribute. Then we wouldn't have had $30 million. kr that we could redeploy to smaller players. That money had been gone. And if you're going to use the same argument for the current budget, it's going to be 50 million. kr less to be distributed to the smaller players, for whom such touching care is shown by the representative of Løvaas. The Christian People's Party wants to continue the press support to ensure a rich flora of both paper newspapers and online newspapers, which are published nationally, regionally and locally, and we want to ensure good framework conditions for national media companies in the face of global media competition. This is important that we focus on the future. There has been talk of 0-0-VAT, and one thing the Minister of Culture should have: she has never promised 0-0. She's promised low VAT, and then it's 8-8. So no one is going to accuse the Minister of Culture of running from previous promises. But then 0-0 is added to the table just based on the media situation we see today. And then maybe it's true that the media has already addressed 8-8, but then we know that over the last few years, the situation for Medie-Norway has changed radically. The advertising revenue has failed. The economic situation has changed radically, and it must therefore be allowed to discuss other forms of equal value added tax. I am very pleased with the signals that have come from the Left to order 0-0. Perhaps it would have been a good idea for the Minister of Culture now to notify the equivalent of VAT, to ask for notification of the principle of equal value added tax, and not to commit to 8-8, because it may prove that the majority of the Grand Duchy is different, and to want anything other than a low tax of 8-8. Otherwise it would be interesting to hear why you use that reason, when you cut the press support, that you want to make the media less dependent on public support to ensure editorial freedom. Don't we have a free press in Norway? [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e1433	I would like to first of all thank the interpellant for raising an important topic for debate in this Chamber. We have had these kinds of debates in the past, and we are going to have to have many more of these kinds of debates in the future. It's not long since the Storting discussed the press support and the framework conditions. In June of this year, we also had a shift in terms of the introduction of platform neutral production subsidies and the ceiling on the subsidy. In that debate, several of the parties – in fact a majority of the parties – warned the government against weakening the press support, as one tried to do in the supplementary proposition last year, and as individual representatives have also warned in the media that they want to do. I believe that it is not necessarily the size of the cut in the press support that provokes the most, but that it is perceived as a rematch with the Stortinget and with what a majority in June said on these questions. It is a fundamental democratic value for newspaper readers to have access to differing views and opinions in the newspaper landscape. Press support is based on principles that remain of great relevance and value. With a population of five million and many small communities, the population base or advertising market alone is not large enough to provide an economic basis for competing regional newspapers and small newspapers. Smaller newspapers wear, seams if their market position can also be strong. Common to the newspapers receiving production support is that they move outside the most commercial main flow of the media and thus represent other perspectives on society. The type of cut proposed by the government is unfortunate, both because it points in the negative direction, and because one tries to fight with the Stortinget. As the Center Party stressed in the debate in June, things are happening very quickly within the media landscape. There is no doubt that there is a very demanding situation that very many newspapers and media houses are in the middle of it. At the same time, there is also a strong development in the media industry and the transition to, among other things. digital platforms. That transition is not at all marked by a lack of innovation, as the representative Eidem Løvaas here suggested, on the contrary. Also in the newspapers that receive press support, I have to say that the struggle for renewal, the work to renew and live on, is a strong driving force. This applies both to newspapers with press support and to those who do not. It's also absolutely necessary, because things happen very quickly. But precisely because it is so necessary, it is unwise for the government once again to present things that create uncertainty, in an industry that already experiences as great changes as the media industry does. They need a completely different predictability. This also applies in particular to the question of VAT. I think it is positive with signals both from the Christian People's Party and from the Left that one must also be able to assess a 0-0 solution, and that one could as well have notified it to ESA already now, because it can be a political solution to the greatest extent possible that could also be achieved in the Biggest. There is a need for a future media policy that strengthens more than it weakens future prospects. The representative Ib Thomsen stressed that the media revolution was also taking place during the Workers' Party. Yes, it did, given! It takes place completely independently of political parties. And it takes place completely independently of the political landscape. But the political landscape can provide some tools and a basis that makes it easier for newspapers to get through the very difficult time they are in. The centre party is of the opinion that a broad media deal that points forward, slightly longer-term, and that can create predictability and adequate framework conditions for Norwegian newspapers, can be an important tool to which a political party can contribute. I also have to say with regard to the discussion about what creates independent newspapers, that some of what presses Norwegian newspapers most today is the relationship between ownership and journalism. For most newspapers are owned by large media houses, which hunt quarterly results. And in the pursuit of quarterly results, journalism can also be put under a certain pressure. Therefore, the Address Paper in its manager is quite right that the time of the proposals that are now coming could not have been worse. Media policy in the future must be based on reality, not on ideological ideals – and it sums up the position of the Right and the Advance Party very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e1460	The state of critical, independent journalism, one of the pillars of democracy, has in just a few years gone from dramatic to monstrous. The solution proposed by the government is low VAT 8-8, a step in the right direction, but far from powerful enough. Then I must admit to the minister that the everyday life of the media would probably be a little easier today if the representative Grande and the red-green government had shown an equally heavy commitment to the media when they had multiples and put into government, as they now express. It is good that they called for an increase in press support, but hiding behind the door in view of how much more zero VAT means will be a little too easy. In the government they chose to push ESA ahead of them as an explanation of the lack of action or will. Why is 0-0 moms so important now? National regional media are at full speed into digital everyday life, and very many are likely to be more or less integer during just one or two peak periods. It's clear that in such a situation as they're now up to, in addition to getting 8 pst. VAT, they actually have only one place to carry out additional cuts, and it's in the editorials, that is, even more pressure on what democracy is so heavily dependent on, not least in the information society, in the information field we're up today, and will do to an even greater extent in the future. Then one of the local smaller locals still has more or less everyone who says that for a long time in the future they will be highly dependent on the paper newspapers and their income. Apply the 8 pst. VAT instead of today's 0 pst. will mean that they will get a day-to-day that is urgent and dramatic, which is likely to become so difficult that it can joke for more of that kind of newspapers. Of course, when it comes to the zero VAT requirement that the Left is now calling for, there will be something that I take with me to the negotiations with the government party here on the Stortinget. Of course, that requirement won't decrease in strength when we now know that there's a multiple behind this in the house. What is the debt cut in the press support that the government proposes in its budget proposal, it adds itself to a systematic series of budgetary reforms. And what I and Left think about it, we'll be able to articulate fairly strongly and unambiguously when we meet the government party for negotiations a little outside of November.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e1475	A bad thing does not get better because it is repeated often. The exercise that the government is now putting up with is a reprisal of last year's budget. It did not take Stortinget nicely – the proposal was defeated. When the representative Ib Thomsen talks about a modern and forward-looking media policy, one might wonder. For it must be a reality that the Progress Party has lost this matter in the government. Throughout the spring, there were readings all over Norway where the Progress Party Ib Thomsen argued that zero-VAT was important. So the biggest turnaround here today we have heard the Progress Party do, which now believes that 8-8 is completely forward-looking, while it was 0–0 two to three months ago that was the current one. It would have been interesting to hear Thomsen explain what has happened in these three months that makes 8 to 8 at the moment much better than 0 to 0 three months ago. Then we've heard a government council that's always paying attention to the need for editorial independence, and I think we all agree with that. But it gets a little bit weird when someone uses it as a reason to cut 50 million. kr in the press stand. How is the editorial dependency on the last 250 million? What's the kr? I could imagine that the Council of State decided whether this is just the beginning of getting a proper editorial independence. At that time, newspaper editorials around Norway might fear the future even more than can be done with the proposals that are available today. It is difficult to understand how the proposal can contribute to more diversity around Norway. A number of local authorities are dependent on press support. How to explain the diversity of localities, and how to help make it more number. 2 newspapers if the press support should go down further? Another honorary word that we belong to is ‘arm length distance’. It's often used around the NRK. This weekend I have been in the Sami areas, and it was quite remarkable what I was told had been said related to the 25th anniversary of the Sameeting. When the relationship between the two small Sami newspapers was debated – they lose as they know 5 million. kr in State aid – was the proposal of Right-wing Eidem Løvaas that the NRK could produce substances to which the Sámi newspapers could link, and perhaps a payment solution could be created in there. So what's the arm's length distance to the NRK? What I have been told here today by the Minister of Culture is that e-news is not the same as pdf. It's something to carry on. But then I also think the Minister for Culture should be quite responsive, and that is what the government has said it should be to Stortinget. It is important to travel to Brussels without delay and to ensure that the same VAT is notified, and also to ensure that the possibilities for 0–0 are present. There's no majority in this room, it could indicate, for 8-8.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e1490	Thank you for the debate. A little change of mind is to be expected, and you don't necessarily slip over the points of disagreement that lie. But to those degrees to refuse an invitation to discuss across party boundaries what we can do together as a national assembly in the 2014 Constitutional Jubilee to strengthen the diversity of opinion, to strengthen democracy and to strengthen Norwegian media actors, I had not expected. It testifies to a government that primarily identifies existing schemes rather than going to the depth of the problem and see what we can do to think about new and work out better solutions that stand out in the future. Then the statements from Kårstein Løvaas are really indicative that the government parties obviously don't see that this is a problem, because we have twittering and we have blogging, and it solves the entire social mandate on the day the paper newspapers go down. I find it sad to hear that there is no greater understanding of the meaning of the edited word and the meaning of our local ways. So Løvaas points out that it is important to have modern, forward-looking policies. The problem for the government is that the proposal for 8-8 has expired for a long time before it is proposed. It is true, as many have pointed out, that this has been a question of maturation in several parts, but if one has to develop a position for a new time, it is an advantage if the maturation takes place in the right direction. It obviously doesn't do that for the Progress Party, which has matured its position from zero to eight. But I am pleased with the clear message that came from Ib Thomsen on the pulpit in his speech, that the Progress Party warns that there will be a process of demarcation in the Stortinget. I look forward to Thorhild Widvey getting it out and bringing an invitation to the political parties on how we can discuss this together. So it's significant, I think, that the government parties couldn't have brought with them the frustration and disappointment that the Norwegian media industry has expressed after the state budget was presented. It is not referred to as an ‘opera jubile’, as created by the representatives of the Right Party and the Progressive Party. It is referred to in media circuits as the ‘opera jacket’, not only because it is very serious for the economy of Norwegian media actors, but especially because of the enormous disappointment the media industry experiences when you see that you have a government council that cannot have brought the media crisis. In the Varsom poster, it says: ‘Faulty information should be corrected and, if necessary, regretted as soon as possible.’ I invite the Council once again to complain about the claim that Norwegian newspapers are not independent.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e1510	Firstly, I would like to say that I have never said, of course, rather, that newspapers that receive state aid do not operate critical journalism of high quality. I think the papers prove that every day. What I think is that the answer to the industry's challenges is not to make the papers even more dependent on state subsidies, which is what the representative Grande expresses. Increased dependence on state support may in the long run weaken the press's ability to perform its critical role in the social debate, and thus also the editorial independence of the press, and I am talking about the press as an institution, the press as the fourth state power, and not as a single newspaper. I am incredibly proud to be the first and so far the only minister who has proposed a platform neutrality in terms of VAT. In practice, it is unique in the European context, as I said in my speech, and so there is no other country in Europe that has done so. I have an ambition to do that, and that was also my criticism of the representative of Grande and his party. So they put their hands in jail for eight years without doing anything about this question. As I also referred to, former Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen, who answered one question and an interpellation in the United Kingdom, admitted that what they had travelled to Brussels with was to try to achieve platform neutrality when it came to production support, paying particular attention to the fact that they had not made any progress in terms of VAT. But we do, because we want the press to be given the opportunity to promote innovation and innovation, and that it will not stand in the way of media development in the coming years. In the case of press support, there is a subsidy presented and it is quite natural to discuss it in the context of the budget. I expect that we will have good negotiations this year, as we had last year. We have started preparing the notification, but it is not so to understand that we are doing our own notification before Stortinget has said its own. A final notification is, of course, entirely dependent on Storting's conclusions on whether there should be zero VAT or whether there should be eight VAT, as proposed by the government. I'm still wondering what the Workers' Party really means in terms of zero-VAT. I have noticed that, in the past, it has been linked to dividends and also to salary levels, and it has also been said by the Labour Party's parliamentary leader that it may be appropriate to introduce VAT a little later. I also notice that he has stated that zero-VAT was a very difficult answer to get to, and I'm not sure it's the final thing they're coming with now. I do not think the last words have been said about VAT and VAT rates, and I look forward to a constructive debate in the years that are coming on this issue too.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e1527	Then there's case no. 6 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e1541	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e1547	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e1707	In Case No: 2–6 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e1715	Case No. 7 is the second time legal proceedings and concerns Law Decision 1. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-21.ana.ud2449e1809	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
