ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e26	The called alternate of the Finnmark County, Ronny Berg, has taken the seat. An application for sick leave has been submitted by Mr Tom E. B. Holthe on 19 November and until further notice by the Group of the Progressive Alliance. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Ellen Eriksen, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e49	Ellen Eriksen is present and will take the seat. The President will first of all draw attention to the fact that there are very big changes in the ordinary Questionnaire, and will ask that the representatives who have questions also look at the changes that are on the counter and are available electronically. For the sake of order, it is made clear that we are starting the ordinary Questionnaire with questions 19, 20 and 21, so that the representatives who know that they have those questions come in at 1 p.m. 11:30.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e65	On Monday, the Stortinge received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Solvency Horne, Ine M. Eriksen Soreide and Torbjørn Røe Isaksen will meet for oral Question Time. The government councils advertised are as far as the president can see, and we're ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Trond Giske.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e72	I have a question for the Minister of Knowledge. In the autumn, the Right Party and the Advance Party were able to present their own budgets and finally show what is most important to them, what is right and right party policy. The budget has led to a storm of protests against unfair cuts: cut for children with illegitimate parents, removal of sick pay for those with the lowest wages, removal of cultural offerings for the elderly and cut for those with reduced mobility who need a car. And extra upset I think people have become because they see that the Progress Party and the Right can afford between 8 000 million at the same time. NOK 9 000 and SEK 9 000 million. kr in tax cuts for the richest. Erna Solberg's answer is that the Right only does what they have said they should do, but in her speech, Erna Solberg said the word'school' 17 times and the word 'tax code' only once. Nevertheless, Røe Isaksen corresponds to a total increase of 98 million in primary and secondary education. kr. So the state budget is spending almost 100 times more on tax cuts for the richest than it is on primary and secondary school – nothing for early work for children and young people who are struggling with reading, billing and writing, nothing to reduce the size of the classes, nothing to help more people through high school, nothing to strengthen the fight against bullying. In the state budget, only the tax cuts to the two, the three richest in Norway are as much as the total investment in primary and secondary schools. My question is, why does the Minister of Knowledge think it is right to invest 100 times as much in tax cuts as to provide children and young people with knowledge and education? Does the Minister of Knowledge think that tax cuts to billionaires are what we should live on from the future, or is it children and young people's knowledge that we should live on in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e85	I mean, it's kids and young people's knowledge we're going to live on in the future. I also think it is an advantage to have jobs to go to. If you look at the knowledge budget, this is a very good knowledge budget. You can just go through it, you can look at the bet on kindergarten, at early work, at the quality of kindergarten – which has never been higher, doubled in the last two years. Then you can go to the school budget, where the most important thing we put on is early work, reinforced teachers, precisely because we know that the most important thing for students to learn more and for more people to complete high school is that they have good, committed and qualified teachers. Then you can go to the R & D budget, which is historically high. From 2010 to 2013, the last red-green years, there was a real growth in R & D budgets – i.e. research and development – of 0.9 pst. So far, during the Solberg government, there has been a real growth of 5 pst. In addition, the share of research and development, i.e. investment in future jobs and knowledge of the future, has been the second largest since 2000 – only 2007 was slightly higher – i.e. a formidable boost. The knowledge budget as a whole — for schools, kindergartens, research and development — is a formidable and good budget for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e90	I understand that the Minister of Knowledge does not use up his speaking time when he is going to talk about the bet at school in the state budget, because according to his own response to the Stortinget, the total investment in the state budget is at primary and secondary level 98 million. kr. That's what the Minister of Knowledge himself writes. The total bet on tax cuts is 8.3 billion. So it's going to be $8,300 million. kr. The Labour Party today presented its alternative state budget. That's where we say we keep the tax level as it was in 2013, so we don't have one more penny in taxes, except what we had in 2013. Then we get a real effort for those who are struggling with reading and billing early in primary school, we get 100 million. kr for professional and high school equipment, we get a bet against bullying so we don't hear the shocking stories that we've heard in the last few weeks, we get a stake in school health services and we get a solid stake in the municipalities so they can expand the school instead of what we're looking at now. Is Røe Isaksen disappointed that the Right and the Advance Party policies lead to the very opposite?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e99	Now I haven't had time to read the entire working party's alternative budget, but there's very little evidence there to suggest a formidable knowledge effort. Let me take an example of what this government has delivered. We have said that the most important thing in school policy is for students to learn more. And the most important factor for students to learn more is that we have teachers who are good, committed, professional at the top and who get career opportunities and professional replenishment through the course. We have tripled the efforts for further education, for the development of professional competence in the school, since the Workers' Party was in government. If you look at the professional budgets, you can take the increase: when we got into the government, that is, with the last red-green budget that was put forward, we added over 100 million. Extra kroner. The fact that the Workers' Party is spending a little more this year is fine in itself, but the bet came when we were in government. The most important investment in the profession is the job we do to get more apprenticeships. The previous eight years, little happened to get more apprenticeship places. Here there's going to be a power roof from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e110	Follow-up questions will be raised – first Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e113	When the government executes tax cuts in the billions class and at the same time keeps up on the municipal economy, they have consequences. Often it ends with cuts in the school budgets locally. We see that happening now, among other things. in Alta, Tromsø, Ski, Modum, Stavanger and a large number of other municipalities. The result will be fewer teachers, larger classes and less time to deal with each individual student, contrary to national objectives. One of the municipalities where the school budget has been proposed is Stavanger. There, Petter Enoxsen of the FAU at Lassa School says something at the heart of the challenge. He says, ‘Prior efforts, training of teachers, enhanced school management and efforts to combat bullying have been made by politicians. All of this is going to be hard to get done with [[...]] The consequences of large tax cuts and, at the same time, holding back the municipal economy, we see in the municipalities. Does the Minister of Knowledge understand that the boundaries of the municipalities in the school budgets lead to the bleak opposite of a school and knowledge lift?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e127	I understand that it can be difficult in many places locally to prioritize. At the same time, when you look at the municipal budgets, I know that the municipal structure that we've supplied is full of height, both in terms of level and in terms of free income, with what has been common in Norway. I know that there have been budget proposals in some places where they propose to reduce, for example. the number of teaching positions. Alta is one example. There I was yesterday. There is the Workers' Party that has, if not gone into the breeze for it, so at least supported it, as I was informed. I hope that all municipalities will vote in school, but at the same time, I think it is a better idea that that decision is taken locally than that we should sit and control it in detail from here. Then it's true that there are tax cuts inside the budget. If you, for example, look at one of the major problems in Norway – the fact that we have to make better use of the research we have – there is a lack of private capital. We just don't have enough people investing in jobs in Norway. Then it's a good idea to make it easier to invest in jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e134	Ivar Odnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e137	There is a great deal of agreement in this room that early efforts are important to increase learning outcomes for the student and prevent learning from growing widely in the educational cycle. This is also supported by the Center Party. What is now the reality is that we see that many municipalities now have to cut here. One example is the municipality of Sandne, where the councillor suggests cutting tens of millions in school. The planned cuts may result in more people having a school refusal and dropping out of further schooling. It speaks a pedagogical leader to the newspaper Stavanger Aftenblad. I will then ask the following questions: Does the Minister of Knowledge think that combining classes and removing hours of strength and other individual follow-up measures in the basic subject correspond to the objective of early action in the basic sphere?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e145	I have a lot of opinions on it, but overall, I think it makes a lot of sense that the municipal politicians – who are elected locally, who are responsible locally, who meet their voters in the store every single day – take these decisions, and that they are not detailed by national teams. So we're going to do more of what we know works, from national teams. It's e.g. making it easier for municipalities to develop their schools further by filling their teachers’ skills. Today, we've increased efforts from 1 to 4 steps. It's important to maintain. We invest massively – historically high – in quality in kindergarten, as we know, the most important thing for all children in Norway to get the best possible start to life. I think that is important national measures that we follow up through the budget, but unfortunately, no matter how much I want, I cannot go in and comment in detail on every local government budget in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e150	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e153	Yesterday, SV presented its alternative state budget, and our total effort on the whole run from kindergarten to research is 4.3 billion. kr more than the government has submitted. For those who are happy in numbers, this is about the same thing as the government added to tax cuts to the richest, so for SV, knowledge is the country's wealth. Teachers I've been talking to, they think it's good and good that the government is continuing the effort on further education that the red-green ones started, but they think this is a very narrow one-off effort, and in this budget, this is the only big thing that the government is investing in. My question to the minister is, What does the minister think could be the next big investment in school to create a lift?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e162	Thank you for the question. I think the key, the core of the school challenge is the Norwegian paradox, which is that relatively we use a lot of resources in Norwegian school. It's not always what it feels like in the sector, but the numbers show it. At the same time, our professional results in some areas are medium or medium-sized. Then we have to try to figure out what is the key to solving this challenge. I believe that early efforts are important, especially in kindergarten. I believe that in the kindergarten policy there has been a lot – not too much – of attention to quantity, we have built out a lot of places, but we have not been equally concerned about the content. It's an important project. So I believe that teaching skills at all stages are absolutely crucial, and I would like to highlight, among other things. changing teacher training and getting a practical five-year master's degree, which means that teachers at all levels of school have good professional qualifications, not only to use the knowledge they have gained, but also to acquire new knowledge through a long career in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e173	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e176	My question also goes to the Minister of Knowledge. Most kindergartens in the country are very good and have employees doing a great job every day. At the same time, we know that the offer varies – there is a difference between content and quality in kindergartens. The Council of State has promised a quality reform for kindergarten, and the Christian People's Party is pleased with many of the grips that the Minister of Knowledge has signaled. The Christian People's Party believes that the most important thing we can do to ensure a quality kindergarten is to make sure that there are enough adults in kindergarten. If there are not enough adults to see each child — who can comfort, feed, play, read aloud — the nursery is not a good and safe alternative. That is why we believe that the government's objective of introducing a standard of personnel by 2020 is very late. I have noticed that the Council of State believes that learning needs more time in kindergarten, and that it is an important way to better kindergartens in Norway. In order to promote more learning, it is among other things: signalled that the Council of State wants a clearer framework for children’s learning in kindergarten and aims to enable all children to Norwegian when they start school. Clearly, children learn a lot and develop in kindergarten. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that all children are given the opportunity to go to kindergarten in the last years before they begin school. Kindergarten is an important venue both for the development of social skills and for language development — through play and interaction and through creative development. This is the core task of kindergarten, and it is this time and resources that should primarily be used for. Therefore, we are somewhat sceptical about the new monitoring and reporting requirements, which will mean that employees may have to sit more in the office – rather than spend time with their children. So my question is, does the Council of State mean that kindergarten should be developed in a school-based direction, which requires specific learning objectives, documentation and language mapping?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e189	We have said that we should come back to these questions, but I have drawn some preliminary conclusions. I don't think kindergarten is going to be a school, and there's going to be a clear distinction between learning at school and the kind of learning you have in a kindergarten. I'm skeptical that we're going to have a kind of learning goal in kindergarten that we have in school. The first, most important, promise in kindergarten is to bring in even more employees with what is often called the relevant child-care skills, i.e. more with a professional letter, and more kindergarten teachers. I agree that we need a standard of personnel, too, but then, as the representative says, it says in the government statement that we should have it by 2020. It's not a possible pre-date, but it's a latest date. The first promise we have now made is the nursery teacher and trade union lift. That's where most of the funds are used, for the historically high quality pediatric bet that we've started. That's where the shock really gets inserted. So I believe that when it comes to monitoring and observation, it's important to keep your tongue straight in your mouth. Observation must be carried out all the time in a kindergarten, and the most important thing is to ensure that you manage to capture those children who without help, without extra support, may get a worse start in life because they, for example, are. have poor language development, or because they come from a family where very few speak Norwegian; perhaps the parents do not speak Norwegian. In order to do that, we need observation, but it's not given, and I'm also skeptical about it, that means we're going to have a mapping of all the children, as the previous government suggested. I think it might be shooting at targets with hail, and that we have to say observation first, and then the mapping might have to be in favour of those who need extra follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e198	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. There are few signs of what the Council of State really thinks should be a learning goal, and what this quality promise really is about in that particular area. It is good to hear that the Council of State is also concerned with the standard of manpower, and that we need to have more adults with pediatric competence into kindergartens. That's what we're talking about. But the signals that have come so far, and that we might have read about in the media as well, are that you're very concerned about setting learning goals for kindergarten, that kindergarten should not just be a place where children are cared for. It's made us a little bit worried that we're now moving towards the kindergarten being more and more similar to a school. I would like to ask the question again: Does the Council of State think that kindergarten should be developed in a school-based direction, which requires specific learning objectives, documentation and language mapping?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e207	I mean I answered that, but I can express myself even more clearly. I'm skeptical that we should have learning goals in kindergarten as we do in school. Just to illustrate the difference — very simplified: a school's learning goal is to be able to multiply the tables. A kind of skill measure, a kind of process measure, that you have in kindergarten, is that you have to work with the multiplication table. I believe that in the framework plan today it is possible to clarify the learning that is taking place in kindergarten, even better. I believe that this is possible, for example. to have more real science, more science, even better language work in many kindergartens, but I don't want us to have a kindergarten that becomes like a school. There should still be an important and decisive difference between kindergarten and school.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e212	There will be follow-up questions – first Anders Tyvand.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e215	I thought it was special to read the state council's statements that it had to end that kindergarten is a place where the children are just being watched out. This is not in line with my experience from kindergarten at all. I myself have a three-year-old and a five-year-old in kindergarten, and I can tell the council that there is already an incredible amount of learning going on in kindergarten. But it happens on slightly different premises than in school. It occurs through play, through interaction with other children and adults, and it occurs without formal learning requirements, without formal skills objectives and without a comprehensive regime for testing and reporting. Now the council wants the children to learn more in kindergarten to be better prepared when they start school. If this is how this learning is supposed to be a prerequisite for the success of children in school, does that mean that all children have to go through this? Does this mean that the Right will now go away from the idea of freedom of choice for families and introduce compulsory kindergarten for all children?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e221	The answer to that is no. But the representative might want to hear a little bit more too. The kindergarten shall remain optional. Why do we think it's good for the kids to go to kindergarten? There's someone who's concerned about the socio-economic in this, and that's good and good. This means that your parents can be out of work while you have a place where your children can be. That's good for the economy. What I'm most concerned about is that there's overwhelming evidence that going into a good kindergarten is good for everyone, at least for almost everyone, and especially for children who come from minority families. If you don't come from a home where it's Norwegian, for example, going to kindergarten itself is very important to get a good start in life. There's a lot of good learning going on in Norwegian kindergartens, there's a lot of learning going on today. But that doesn't mean we're not going to have ambitions for that learning to be even better, and that more kindergartens are going to work systematically on it. Unfortunately, the differences are too large.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e228	Rigmor Aasrud – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e231	The right was with the red-green government parties when we treated the kindergarten message in the previous period. One goal that was to increase the quality of kindergartens. So we set aside 150 million. kr in that period, and we were happy that the council increased by 10 million. kr. Now we've strengthened the municipal economy. In his speech at the Court's national meeting, the Council of State was concerned about increasing the possibility of having more people employed in kindergartens, and Unio was of course pleased about that. But in an answer to a question related to the state budget, the Council of State says that the only thing he's done is to increase the subsidies to the private kindergartens. Yesterday we saw headlines showing that there are social distortions in the background of kids in private and municipal kindergartens. Does the Council of State believe that increasing the grant to private kindergartens is an effective tool in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e236	There are two answers to that. The only answer is that, as far as I know, it was quite a total big deal – at least the previous government was also involved in it, or led to it – which said that you should have equal treatment between the public and private kindergartens. It has been natural, it has been followed up by the previous government, and it was also followed up by us last year. It has not been proposed to follow up in 2015, but it has been a common starting point. That's the one answer. The second answer is that we're going to go through the whole funding system for kindergartens – both to see if there's a sufficient funding system to ensure an equivalent quality, and to see if there's unreasonable funding differences in the system. We followed up our equal treatment of children in private and public kindergartens in the budget for the current year. We have not proposed an increase in 2015. On the other hand, we have proposed a quality increase of 60 million. kr extra to quality measures in kindergarten, which means that we are now at a historically high level, with a double in two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e243	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e246	The debate on quality in kindergartens is important. There's probably going to be a debate that many people are concerned about in the future. It can be about a lot of different things. There may be enough staff and staff standards. It will in turn mean increased compensation of employees and pension costs. It can be about maintenance and temporary workers, and there are not too many children in each kindergarten. I also believe that one in this area does not get away from the fact that the real key to better quality in kindergartens is the economy of municipalities. I think the Council of State might have been a little easy to get away from the previous question. It is easy for a council to promise money on behalf of the municipalities. It is also easy for a government council to blame the municipalities and owe it to local priorities when things don't turn out the way they want to. All the parties in this room, except the Right Party and the Advance Party, have acknowledged that the municipal structure is too poor. There are too many unfunded tasks. The question to the council remains: if he wants better quality – how should he persuade his government colleagues to understand that better quality in kindergartens also requires a better community economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e253	We deliver a municipal budget that is full of what has been common in recent years, and our measures for kindergartens are funded. It is possible that I am one of the few who remembers the harvest alive last year. One of the things that this government was criticising was that there was a withdrawal from the local council because of the cash support, which many municipalities responded to, because they thought that the withdrawal was too large. There were several questions, including: from the Centre Party. It's arranged for next year. If I do not remember correctly, it costs approx. 500 million. kr, which has been returned to the municipalities. In addition, there is an increase in quality in the budget within the years. It's in 100 million. kr to several places so that municipalities can expand more places and have a more flexible recording than today. All of this together means that municipalities have good conditions to be able to invest in the quality of kindergartens for next year, and that our commitments to quality raising are not fulfilled, because we still have many years left, but the first step is at least taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e262	Iselin Nybø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e265	The Council of State itself has pointed out that it is of great importance that the employees of kindergartens have child-care skills, and in particular that we get kindergarten teachers into the nursery. For us in the Left, it's not primarily about wanting to make kindergarten more schooly, but it's about having employees with the skills needed to catch kids early – whether it's about language challenges, about assault, or about bullying. There are many cases of high school dropouts that tell us that bullying started already in kindergarten, so having kindergarten teachers in kindergarten is of great importance, because there's a difference between having people with skills there and people who are just good caregivers. Today, many municipalities have many exemptions, so I would like to ask the Council of State what he intends to do to get more kindergarten teachers in the kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e274	First, it is important to say that relevant child-care skills are important, but it is also very important to say that the many thousands of assistants working in Norwegian kindergarten are doing a great job. Many of them have very long experience and are popular among the children, and that's important. Then it's important for kindergarten teachers, and it's important to have a letter. Our quality initiative has just the two objectives: that more people should take professional letters and get support for it – it should be easier, and it is funded – and that more people with professional letters should take kindergarten teachers. One key to finding out is that there are more places for those who want to take kindergarten teacher training in the kindergarten where they are, i.e. those who are already in kindergarten and who will continue to be in kindergarten while they are further training as kindergarten teachers next door. And with a bet and an upswing in the years to come, you'll be able to close the gap that makes 4,400 kindergarten teachers not in kindergarten today, which is needed in kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e281	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e285	I think I can assure the Minister that we are many both alive in the hall and thinking about the cottage last year and the big cut that the government did in the kindergartens, both in places, admissions, the number added and the price. That's what's the big paradox here, that if babysitting is as important as the minister wants it to – and the SV is completely united in – shouldn't more children be allowed to go to kindergarten? The minister said in the previous answer that early effort is the next big bet, and that going to kindergarten is important. In that case, shouldn't it be important that most people get the chance to go to kindergarten? If you don't miss this huge effort. My question is simple: why does the government increase cash support while increasing the prices in the nursery?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e294	We increase the cash support – it happens in the current year – because we believe it is important that parents also have an option. There is no contrast between cash support and kindergarten. It's time we stopped pretending that it is, because it's not. Cash support is for the very early years. I know that the head of the Workers' Party has also recognised that cash support is for the previous years, kindergarten is coming later. The participation of children in kindergartens among five-year-olds in Norway is about 97 pst. We also do a lot of important to get more into kindergarten. Let me mention two things: we're doing something that's been talked about a long time, that's to create a national minimum standard for social parental pay to make sure that those with the lowest income get more reasonable kindergarten. It's an important contribution. Then we're going to spend 100 million. kr in 2015 in several kindergartens in municipalities so that they can also have more flexible admissions. Together with the free core-time project – which continues – there is an important contribution to getting even more into a kindergarten where quality will be even higher.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e301	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e304	My question goes to the Minister of Defence. Our national defence industry is an important part of our security and preparedness policy. The Kongsberg Group is a very central part of our defence industry. As part of the government's strategy of getting rid of state ownership in key Norwegian companies, the government has proposed to give up control of the Kongsberg Group by selling down to 34. pst. In contrast to most other countries, Norway does not have a legislation on who can own strategically important businesses in the country. It means in practice that one can get a situation where non-alternatives, with the government's blessing, can secure 66 pst. by the Kongsberg Group. This, in the view of the Center Party, is a frightening thought. In the government’s ownership message, the security policy consequences of sales in the Kongsberg Group are not mentioned. In the Question Time last Wednesday, the Prime Minister referred only to the legislation we have today, which does not therefore regulate who can own companies. It was the Kongsberg Group itself that had to come to Stortinget with this information that the government had not taken up. So my question to the Minister of Defence is, is it the Minister of Defense's view that from a defence and security perspective it doesn't matter who owns the Kongsberg Group, or was the Minister of Defence not involved in the process of drafting the ownership message?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e319	As the representative Pollestad well knows, this issue falls within the constitutional responsibility of another Council of State, namely the Ministry of Enterprise, as the Ministry of Ownership, and as the manager of state ownership. But I'm still going to give an answer to the question that's being asked. It is also identical to a written question I have received from the representative Pollestad, who will be answered within the deadline. It has been clarified both by the Prime Minister and by the Minister of Industry that any possible sale, or i.e. the use of this authorisation which is currently in place will not be used until an in-depth assessment of several factors, including the importance of the Kongsberg Group for national security, has been carried out. The Kongsberg Group also has a non-negligible turnover in the civil sector, which may help to add complicating factors to any sale. Thus, a power to sell has been granted, but there are a number of issues that need to be addressed and whether adaptation to our safety legislation is required in order to ensure national security. As Pollestad’s representative is quite right, unlike some other countries, Norway has ownership as its control mechanism, so it is not its own safety regulations that relate to the issues addressed. Therefore, there is something that needs to be assessed separately and that will of course be done. This has also been clearly explained by both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Industry. So I just want to conclude by saying that the defence market is going through a lot of changes. It is not exclusive to Norway, it is happening throughout Europe, throughout the world. There are major consolidations, and there are major changes in the defence market compared to what you had in the past. It also means having an up-to-date ownership policy, but it has to be a real and serious assessment of how best to address the issues of security for Norwegian interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e332	I feel it is quite natural to ask questions about security and preparedness policy to the country's defence minister. I thank you for your answer, and I am glad that you will be able to find out if adjustments to national safety legislation are required to ensure that our national safety is taken into account. At the hearing of the Industry Committee, it was noted that this was regulated in Denmark, Sweden, Finland, Germany, France, Italy, Spain, the United Kingdom and the United States. There are some extensive regulations in use and it is likely that it will take a long time to design such a legislation in Norway. I'm still wondering why the government couldn't wait to ask for a sales authorisation for a had in place such a code, and I'm wondering why a non-problematized this in the ownership message. But my follow-up question is: Is the government doing this work – almost six months after the message was presented – and how long can a person expect it to take to assess, investigate, adopt and implement such legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e341	Once again, the concrete questions related to this need to be asked to the Council of State that has constitutional responsibility for implementing ownership policy, and that is the Minister of Industry. However, it is also important in this context to stress that although an authorisation is granted, it does not mean that it is used. The authorisation is only used when it is ready to be used — and not only the safety aspects, it can equally fully relate to market aspects — i.e. when it is reasonable to consider such an authorisation used. It has not been given that it coincides in time with the granting of the mandate. It is quite right, as the representative says, that several other countries have chosen different models. The model that Norway has chosen, namely to govern through ownership, is a model that has been there for very many years, also for the last eight years when the Senterpartie put in government, and that is the model that Norway has chosen in order to govern state ownership as best as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e348	Follow-up questions are given – first Liv Signe Navarsette.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e351	So the government is asking for a salsa authorization for the Kongsberg Group without complying with a law that takes care of security policy, and according to what I have heard today, one day waits for that legislation to be put in place before taking a position. Then, of course, one might wonder why a salsa authorization was important. But on the basis of a stand in defence and security policy, which is the Council of State's responsibility: wouldn't it have been equally effective to retain the state's plural ownership of the Kongsberg Group, and will the Council of State – based on its constitutional responsibility – work for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e359	As I said in my previous answer, the defence industry is in a rather fragile state, and that means that we must also take account of it in how we manage our state ownership. Having said that, I will once again refer to what both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Industry have said: a mandate will not be used until all the issues relating to this have been clarified. It is no wonder that an authorisation is requested at an earlier date than choosing to use it – it has been done for all the other companies as well. It has not been given to be used at the same time, and that is because these assessments should be made. The Prime Minister has also been very clear that issues relating to both jobs, development and security must be done and in place before it is appropriate to use this mandate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e366	Else-May Botten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e370	I'll take a quote. ‘Before any sale in Kongsberg, it is necessary to examine whether adaptations to national safety legislation are required to ensure that our national safety is taken into account. An assessment of research and development aspects in the defence sector will also be a natural part of the assessment of national security.’;» That was the answer to the Minister of Defence to a written question from Laila Gustavsen here this fall. But there's not a single word in the ownership message about this. Where, then, has the Minister of Defence been, in view of the plan in relation to the notification of ownership? What kind of plan is there to figure out here – when has that job started, when is it going to start, when is it going to be done? And it's strange, regardless of whether you're not going to use the mandate, to ask for a warrant before doing that job in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e382	I think it was a good quote the representative read out, from my previous reply to Laila Gustavsen on a written question. As I have also responded in several rounds here now, it is essential that we be able to assess the use of the mandate. There is nothing special or eye-catching about not having all the facts clarified, for example. the market conditions before requesting an authorisation. I think it's important to do that because we're going to have a thorough process and a thorough assessment. At the same time, it is important that we also have the opportunity to provide Kongsberg – and others – with good strategic partners in a situation and in a market that is in a very strong development.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e391	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e394	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge and is about kindergarten. The Municipality of Oslo has implemented a project with free core time in some parts of the city, and a report has been submitted that indicates some good results, but it may not be as targeted as one had hoped. It turns out that childhood use among four-year-olds and five-year-olds with a migrant background has increased by 15 pst. At the same time, it turns out that nine out of ten dollars spent have no effect, because many of the kids who now get free core time in that project would have used a nursery offer anyway. I don't think there's any disagreement about the importance of going to kindergarten. I don't think there's any disagreement either that some kids have more benefit and need to go to kindergarten before they start school, not least in terms of language and language challenges. When we see that we can target this offer, and when we see that free core time is of great importance to those kids who are then given the opportunity to go there, we in the Left think that going to kindergarten should not depend on their parents' finances. All children should be given the benefit of going to kindergarten, even if their parents have poor advice and cannot afford to pay the maximum price for kindergarten services. My question to the Council of State is whether he does not agree with the Left that we should now introduce free core time for low-income families throughout the country. Now we have this report that shows that it works. Isn't it just to introduce it?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e407	The free core-time project lies mainly in the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, but I understand that the representative had a slightly broader question than that, namely whether or not free core-time should be introduced for all low-income families. To that I would say that I think it is important that access to kindergartens is improved for those who have the worst economy. That is why the contribution that this government has made — which has been talked about for many years but has not been given priority — is a targeted scheme, a national minimum standard, for the kind of social payment to be made in kindergarten. The representative is certainly well aware of the system, but the reason why it is important is that although it is required by law that municipalities should have a moderation for those families who have poor advice, we know that 15-20 pst. of the municipalities do not have it. At the same time, our system is designed to produce fewer adverse effects by increasing revenue than it does, for example. a tight income upgrading of free core time for all to do very easily. It is also designed in such a way that municipalities are supposed to use the funds they are already using for moderation to maintain good moderation schemes — that is, to improve the national minimum standard. So it's not a max scheme, it's a minimum requirement for the municipalities. It has been the government’s budgetary priorities in 2015. I would like to continue prioritizing that those with the lowest income will have better access to kindergarten, but I cannot stand here and promise that there will be proposals for free core time for all the low income groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e416	First, thank you for the answer I have received. One of the reasons why young people are wanted to go to kindergarten — and perhaps especially those with an immigration background — is the Norwegian language and language skills. This report shows that there is a very wide variation between kindergartens as to the kind of benefits you get and the kind of language environment in kindergartens. It's probably due to different things, but it's clear that when local authorities have problems getting access to competent staff, and there's low unemployment, which makes you want to hire people who are good caregivers, who do a good job in kindergarten, but who may not speak very well Norwegian yourself, it's a challenge to create good language environments for the kids who really need to be promised linguistically. My follow-up question to the Minister of Knowledge is a little bit two-sided. First: The report shows that two years in kindergarten before you start school is not necessarily enough to learn Norwegian well enough to start school, if you come from a family where you do not use Norwegian at home and therefore do not have a very good foundation in the language. Does the Minister of Knowledge not think that since we have had free core time for four-year-olds and five-year-olds for all low-income families, the next step must be that young people younger than that also have the opportunity to go to kindergarten, despite the family's relatively poor economy? That's the one question. The second question is: what does the Minister of Knowledge think that we can do to improve language skills in kindergarten, to ensure that we have a staff who are good in Norwegian, and who are competent, so that we can use that arena to make sure that the kids are good enough in Norwegian when they start school?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e427	The answer to the first question is yes. I would like to make it even easier – as this government has also suggested – for parents from low-income families to send their children to kindergarten. But I think we should also remember that for some people it's not just the economy that's blocking. It came, among other things: a study a few months ago that showed that for some people with a minority background and poor language skills, it is quite complicated to apply — simply to know how to bring children in. Therefore, some of the success of the free core-time project, e.g. In metropolitan parts of Oslo, not only have you given free core time, but you have actively allied yourself with civil society, for example. mosques, you've been running active babysitting and going home to people, knocked on the door and said, "You can send your kids to kindergarten like that." Everyone thinks that makes sense. That's the answer to the first one. The answer to the second question – about kindergarten teachers – is: systematic work, and therefore we should do something about the framework plan. I also believe that we need a better follow-up system for those children who do not have enough language skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e434	Follow-up questions are given – first from Trine Skei Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e437	Not to be demeaned by the minister of knowledge, but I'd like to follow up with the councillor Horne. Many of the studies we have now had on trying out free core time show that it works very well for children. Children enjoy being in kindergarten, especially those children who may not have so many weights at home. The last time I checked with Oslo, those who travel to families and say that it's a good idea that the children are in kindergarten, that is to say they're in active recruitment policy, have not yet experienced that there are any families that say no, they won't. So many people see that this is important. However, we see that we do not get any higher professional participation from the parents who receive this offer. If people are to get out of poverty traps, getting moms and dads to work is a pretty important part of it. That's what a nursery place was supposed to do. My question to the Council of State is: What does she think about measures to get these out of work?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e442	Thank you for the question. I share with the representative Trine Skei Grande's concern that the latest report, which we also received, clearly showed that it has not affected the parents' participation in the work or that they get into education. It is important, especially for people with a migrant background, that they also participate in the labour market or get an education that makes them self-sustaining and participates in combating child poverty. I am very pleased that, in cooperation with both the Left and the Christian People's Party in the revised national budget, we were able to increase the grant to free core time, but also put in a point that it should be an activity obligation. In the effort put in place both in Drammen, Bergen and Oslo from the fall of the year, there are clear indications of the obligation to operate, that the municipalities must work to get their parents into an activity. It may be work training, it may be primary school education, or it may be parental guidance courses.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e449	Stine Renate Håheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e453	My follow-up question also goes to the councillor Horne. It may be demanding sometimes to recognise the Progress Party from opposition to position, and this also applies to the issue of free core time. Siv Jensen said when the red-green government launched the scheme: I am against the fact that population groups need special treatment, and cannot understand that the government is in favour of this. This is probably an example of the fact that the Progress Party is the policy edition of Extreme Makeover, but in this case let me be generous enough to commend the Council of State for taking in knowledge and wanting to continue with free core time. The Council of State spoke about the importance of these parents being out of work, and will introduce the obligation of activity. But the paradox is that at the same time the government will expand and increase the cash support, which pays the same parents not to work and not to send the kids to kindergarten. Does the Council of State, Horne, think that there would have been an advantage in the integration policy if the measures of the government were to be put in place, linked and built up, and not the opposite?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e464	I think it's important to have two thoughts in my head at the same time. We need to work on a good integration policy, while at the same time having good training and focusing on kindergartens for minority children. Several have been involved in cash support, including the Minister of Knowledge. Cash support is a scheme that applies to children up to two years of age. So it's not for four-year-olds and five-year-olds. It's nice to see that 72 pst. of all two-year-olds in the country with a minority background are in kindergarten today. We want to increase that number. Then it must be allowed, even for families with immigrant backgrounds, to choose cash support, to choose to be at home a little longer with their children. But I also record that the Workers' Party has now realised that cash support can be important for families in order to gain greater flexibility. I think that with two thoughts in my head at the same time, we can combine free core time and cash support for the families who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e471	Board Vegar Solhjell – to the last follow-up question. Solhell gets to say which state council he wants to ask questions to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e476	I will do that, and I will continue to stick to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality. The report that has now been presented is a rarely successful description of an action to take what was the main objective of the action, namely that more children should go to kindergarten, and that it should have an effect over time in school. It also says in the newspaper that it would not be possible to pick out exactly the children who had not gone to kindergarten, if one had not had free kernel time. Then discuss a different way to go about it: to bring it down to two-three-year-olds, to make it accessible to everyone, or to target some groups. What the government has noticed is the idea that is discussed in a section about focusing it on immigrant families, and that she is open to, according to the Evening Post. I have to say it's a surprise to the right Advance Party to say it. Is it the current policy of the Progress Party and the Government to introduce free core time that only goes to them in an area that has a migrant background, and not to others that may need it in the same area?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e487	Now I'm going to take the report with me, read it carefully and go through the measures that show positive results, and those that have had no effect. That's how everyone does when you get a report. Then you have to be able to take the knowledge you get, with you in the further work. Then I'll come back to Stortinget when the government has concluded on the further follow-up of the trial of free core time. What's happy – I have no problem saying – is that this has had an effect. It has had an effect on minority children by learning Norwegian and standing better rusted when they start school. The report also clearly shows that it has not had the same effect on ethnic Norwegian children. I am also very pleased that the report shows that the parents have increased their confidence in the kindergarten. They also see the value of teaching their children Norwegian much earlier — something that is joyous. I am also very pleased that we have now extended and targeted the free core time system in Bergen and in Drammen to apply to three-year-olds and to all children. Then we'll look at the report and the results.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e496	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e499	Norway is responsible for providing defence personnel before, during and after the mission. It also means providing protection to non-Norwegian personnel who have served for the Defence and the Police in a dangerous task. In Afghanistan, the defense has employed a number of combat interpreters who have served in the first line with Norwegian soldiers and who have been exposed to the same – if not greater – risk as Norwegian fellow soldiers. The Swedish Federation of SIOPS claims that the 26 combat interpreters that Norway has used in Afghanistan are at risk of life and may be at risk of safety where they are. In response to SV, the Council of State writes that Norway has a clear responsibility for personnel. Despite these warnings and what we now know about the security situation in Afghanistan, the Minister of Defence is doing nothing. This is not about Norwegian immigration policy, but about whether the Norwegian defence protects people on whom our forces are totally dependent and who have been put at risk because of it. Italy has now decided, after I have been informed by the Veteran Federation, to pick up 112 of the combat interpreters for Italy. It may also be necessary to do so for Norway. But since the Minister for Defence has so far not wanted to solve this question, is my question to the Minister for Defence whether she can guarantee that the 26 combat interpreters are safe where they are now?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e510	Here again, it is probably necessary to clarify some of the constitutional responsibilities, because the handling of the specific applications lies within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice, and with which the representative is well-known, the Stortinget does not deal with individual cases either, it has now been transferred to the foreign authorities. That being said, the government has continued the regime that SV administered when they set up the government, namely that interpreters and other locally employed personnel who have been in service for Norwegian forces, police or others have the opportunity to apply for asylum from Afghanistan. So they don't want to come to Norway to seek asylum. In the first round, there were 125 things being asked, so that's when the last government put it. Those applications were dealt with individually, and 23 interpreters from that round were granted their application. There are now several cases for treatment in so-called round two, i.e. after the withdrawal from Mazar-e-Sharif. They're not determined, they're now dealing with the foreign agencies. This government has also taken two steps that I believe are important – because it is the responsibility of the Norwegian authorities, it has also been established by the Prime Minister and other government councils – and there are two of the following things: One is that the Ministry of Defence has started work to look at procedures for recruitment of locally employed personnel in our sector, so that you can ensure that you have good procedures for future operations. It was a work the previous government did not let down. The second is that in June, too, there was an instruction that asylum seekers who, for various reasons, do not live in Norway, but in another country – the so-called Dublin refugees and asylum seekers – should nevertheless be dealt with in reality in Norway even if they are in another country, such as Norway. Italy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e525	I must say that I am disappointed that the Minister of Defence does not see that this is a responsibility for the Minister of Defence, and is not ordinary Norwegian asylum and refugee policy. In response to written questions about the matter, the Minister of Defense said that these combat interpreters are not to be considered Norwegian veterans, among others. because local staff are not to go in uniform, be permanently armed, while the Swedish Federation of SIOPS confirms that the combat interpreters have gone in uniform, and there are a number of images showing both the uniformation and the armament of these combat interpreters. That means they're in a completely different situation than the Minister of Defence obviously is. Will the Minister of Defense reconsider matters based on the realities of the field documented by these veterans, and on the pictures and other evidence that these combat interpreters have actually worn both uniform and were armed?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e532	First of all, I react a little to the production. This government has continued exactly the same distribution of responsibilities as the government SV put in. In other words, the handling of applications is the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice, but the government has a system, which we have continued to deal with individually — and it can be applied for from Afghanistan. We have a responsibility, as I have said, as my predecessors have said, and as the whole government has said. So this responsibility is exactly the same now as when SV put in government. In respect of the issue of arms and uniformation, interpreters shall not be permanently armed or uniformed. It has also been pointed out to the Defence that it will not happen. At the same time, and it has been a prerequisite that these conditions may be weighted by the foreign authorities as a hazard or a risk factor for some of these interpreters. But it is, as it has always been, an individual assessment of the individual's situation, the individual's perception of information and the security of the individual. It is the foreign authorities who assess, in the same way as they did when SV joined the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e539	First follow-up questions come from Bård Vegar Solhjell.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e543	Let me make it clear that I am not asking about the issues of justice policy. In reply to me earlier, the Minister of Defence wrote about the following interpreters: ‘The contract of employment and the regulations in force assume that local staff shall not be uniformed, permanently armed, or shall be considered as members of the armed forces of Norway. These basic conditions contradict the inclusion of local employees under the concept of veterans.’» What we are asking about here is up to 26 individuals who, according to the Veteran League, some imagery and public debate have often been uniform, often have our weapons, and they are referred to as colleagues and veterans by the Veteran Federation in several meetings and conversations with us. My question is then: Does the Veteran Association fail when they say that this small group, not other than these, are veterans and have their weapons and gone into uniform a series of times?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e553	This is a work in which the Ministry of Defence contributes, among other things. to verify employment and areas of operation. During the interviews conducted by the UDI in Afghanistan, help has been given to clarify the situation for all applicants for this scheme. I can't stand here and say exactly if these 26 interpreters are 26. Whether it is fewer or more is not verified, nor is it verified whether they have been in uniform or not. This is not something I'm here and now can say that applies to the 26. What we've been busy about is continuing the arrangements that existed from before. We have wanted to make improvements in some areas, including: by now working on procedures and legislation for future operations, and not least by making that change in June for Dublin refugees. It was important for the government to do. Of course, we have at any time to assess in the government whether we can make the arrangements even better than they are today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e560	Anniken Huitfeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e563	It is good that the Minister of Defense should go through the routines of soldiers we send to new operations. I also agree that this should be an individual treatment and that it should be carried out by the judicial authorities. But the questions are, Is the Minister of Defense sure that anyone who has worked for us has an opportunity to apply? And will there be a reassessment of issues that have been rejected in the past, if it turns out that the security situation of the individual has deteriorated?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e568	We from the Ministry of Defence have thought that it is necessary to ensure that we have good routines when we go back to international operations – we know that we will soon, and that may happen in the future. We're busy having good routines. There has now been an individual treatment of the 124 who searched for Faryab in round one. You have individual treatment for those who are now applying for round two for Mazar-e-Sharif, and then it's going to be a third round after our mission in Kabul is finished. This will follow the same routines and guidelines as when the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party were in government. Then, of course, we will have a continuous assessment of whether that scheme is good enough, but it is based on an individual assessment, new procedures and guidelines, and in that way the individual assessments made are based on an assessment where we have contributed information about the staff – what they have done, where they have been employed, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e577	Live Signe Navarsete – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e580	This is not a new case. This has been a matter that has gone on and that has been debated before, and in the VG on 9 February 2012 a reading could be done, among others. Ivar Kristiansen said very clearly that these are people who are in a special situation, we have to give them protection, if it were to happen in Norway. Deceptive leader of the defense committee said that the defense had to come along and find solutions to this, along with other agencies. Does the Minister of Defence still believe that the defence has a responsibility in this matter, that this can not only be seen as an immigration policy, but that there are people who have risked life and health for the Norwegian defence, and that we therefore have a special responsibility for them, in addition to what comes with purely immigration policy considerations?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e587	As I have now said several times in the debate, the Norwegian authorities and Norway have a responsibility for those who have been associated with us in different ways – either as interpreters or as cleaning staff, there are many categories here. With regard to the 2012 opinion, namely that the defence must be involved and find solutions together with other bodies, it is precisely what the defence has done – together with the judicial authorities, the foreign authorities, the child and gender equality authorities – because this is a responsibility that must be shared by more people. I have not heard anyone in this room who has thought that we should have a different system than that there is still an individual treatment of these applications, in line with everyone else who is seeking asylum in Norway. I believe that we still have to stand firm on this: an individual treatment. But they have been given a simpler application process by allowing them to apply from Afghanistan, where, on the defence side, we are going down and assisting the foreign agencies in finding as much information as possible to make this assessment easier.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e592	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e595	I have a question for the Minister of Defence: for eight years, on every occasion, the Right has criticised the defence budget for being too low. ‘We are willing to pay for the government’s decisions as opposed to their own.’ This was said by the Minister of Defence before the elections, while she was the head of the Foreign and Defence Committee – and in opposition – and she further stressed that the Right had proposed increases of 3.2 billion. kr. It helped to create some expectations for what the Right would deliver when they came into government. We have a capable defense minister. It's just so sad that she loses the fight for the budget crowns – because it's tax cuts that are the most important thing for this government. I believe that the security policy situation warrants a completely different priority for the defence. This time the right does not deliver a defence budget in accordance with the ambitions of the long-term plan. They didn't do that the last time the Right sat in government, nor now. My question is: why is it that the Right is never willing to pay for the Defense when the Party is in government, and is the Minister of Defence pleased to provide a budget far below the level she promised while she was sitting on the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e609	This is a question that I'm happy to get, because then I have another opportunity to tell you about a historical budget increase in the defence budget. We have eight red-green years, of which four were a real decline in the defence budget. We're increasing the defence budget by 3.4 pst. – nearly 1.5 billion. kr – and that is an important prerequisite for funding the acquisition of combat aircraft, it is an important prerequisite for funding increased operational capability, and we do so together with internal re-priorities, which have been a prerequisite for the long-term plan all the way. Unlike my predecessors, I'm telling you that these are hard internal repriorities. My predecessors tended to refer to this as ‘fresh money’. It's not. But it is a re-prioritisation that is absolutely necessary – from smaller to more priority activities – and it is thus strengthening operational capability. We are also doing so now with increases in all fields related to operational capability. Then it is clear that in a day like this, when the Workers' Party is presenting its alternative budget, it is looking with light and light for where the large increase that the Workers' Party has called for will come. Well, after looking carefully, we found – well down – 60 million. kr extra to the defense, and in my opinion it is a relatively modest increase if it is such that the Workers' Party believes that the defence is very underfunded. So it also belongs to the story that what we're doing in the budget now, is just part of what we've done in the period we've been sitting with government power. In addition to their budget proposal, we have invested money to finance both the Marine Hunter Command on national alert and more to the HV and Coast Guard. We have also included in our revised national budget a refurbishment of the construction of the Army and Home Protection and additional funded foreign operations, so that we can spend the money on operational capability at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e621	On every occasion when the Stortinge had to adopt the defence budget, the Minister of Defense proposed, while she was sitting there, a huge increase of 600 million. kr. Well, that's a lot of expectations. So it is that the Right has always been dissatisfied with the Workers' Party's defence budget, but the difference between the Workers' Party and the Right is that we do the same in opposition and in position. That's what the Right doesn't systematically do, because when it comes to the problem, it's tax cuts that are prioritised from the Right. Why is it always the case that the defence budget is not given priority when the Right is in government? And where is the match between what the Council of State said and went to elections on in opposition, and what she now actually delivers? We have not received an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e628	The concrete consistency lies in a defence budget that increases by almost 1.5 billion. kr – i.e. 3.4 pst. And I want to repeat that when the Workers' Party joined the government, there was a real decline in the defence budget for four out of eight fiscal years. Yes, it was! In addition, we now see a historical growth of 3.4 pst. – which helps to strengthen the operational capability, which means that we buy and phase in new fighter aircraft, which is a historic capacitylift for the Norwegian defence. It's going to mean an enormous amount to our operational ability. These are important priorities. In addition, we have added money to all the defenses where we see that we can increase the activity. Among other things, the Air Force gets the largest increase – by more than 200 million. kr – so that we can maintain our important tasks in the north, where we are now increasingly on the wings to identify, among other things. Russian planes. It's an important priority for the government, and that's why we have invested money. We have actually invested significantly more money than we promised in the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e633	Follow-up questions are given – first Sverre Myrli.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e636	I'm a little confused now. Of course, there is an increase in the defence budget. It was supposed to be missing. No one has disputed it either. It is an increase in the defence budget, and it is also set out in the long-term plan for the defence sector. However, with the proposal for the defence budget now presented, the increase is too small to follow the level of the long-term plan, as the Right and the current Minister of Defence said last time was far too small. The defence and the long-term plan were underfunded, we were heard in a number of debates here in the Chamber. The appropriations were too small, and there was no match between ambitions and appropriations, we heard. Yes, it is an increase in the defence budget. There is no discussion here today, but the increase is not enough to follow the level of the long-term plan, as the Right said – before the elections – was too low. My question is quite simply: has the Minister for Defence changed its mind? Is the defence underfunded or is it not underfunded?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e645	There is no doubt that we have pointed out – both when we were in opposition and after we entered the government premises – that there are challenges in the balance between structure, tasks and the economy of defence. That's what we work specifically to do better. There is an imbalance that has been lying there for many years, and as we have seen it necessary to address, among other things. when we have now given the Defence Manager a mandate to draw up a new professional-military council, which will result in a new long-term plan. That's where that balance becomes one of the most important things. We have increased the defence budgets through all three occasions since we came into government: in the additional proposition we made to the budget provided by the previous government, in the revised national budget and now with a historical increase in the ordinary budget. It is important, but at the same time we are concerned that there is a budget that is marked by clear and clear priorities. We prioritise from less priority to more priority and important activities, in order to strengthen operational capacity, including: because we are in a new security policy situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e652	Live Signe Navarsete – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e655	We have a capable defense minister. I wrote that down. She's also capable of words, and she's making what's not a giant growth, like that. She is also good at covering what is acute – it is not mentioned. After all, the defence has a long-term and annual requirement for internal efficiency improvement. During the hearing on the defence budget, it was very strongly pointed out that the government's additional cut means that the defence has a double demand for internal efficiency next year. There was also a clear emphasis on the inadequacy of the budget in several areas. It takes the Central Party the consequence of: We've added 130 million. kr more in our alternative budget. But what amazes me – after the strong statements made by the state council before the election and in the previous period – is how it can then present a defence budget where it doubles the demand for internal efficiency, and not insert the billions that it was expected to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e666	There are many things to say about internal efficiency. One is that the annual requirement for internal efficiency improvement in the defence sector has been in place since 2001-2002. This has been an important prerequisite for funding defence and long-term plans for many years, including: over the eight years that Liv Signe Navarsette herself has been in government. There is no duplication of this efficiency requirement, but there is a requirement to take out 80 million. kr. It is removed at all locations other than in operational capability. That means we're protecting all of the operational capabilities of these reductions. Nevertheless, the total budget increase, including this, is almost 1.5 billion. kr. It's a real growth of 3.4 pst. I think it's going to be a little bit more imagination to claim that it's a dramaticly bad defence budget. There is an increase that is significantly greater than that which has been in the last ten years, and it comes after eight years of red-green rule, of which four years had a real decline in the defence budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e675	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e678	It is true that there is an increased budget, but it is primarily an increase in investment in new material. We have previous experience in acquiring frigates where one has remained as a share warehouse for the others, after they have been acquired. It is a problem that we invest too much, without following up on the operating side and building up a logistics around the big investments we make. This is also – in the opinion of the Left – definitely a risk when we look at the fighter aircraft program. There is a risk that we too will invest there, and that the planes will stay in the hangar when they first arrive. My question will then be: does the Minister of Defence agree that we need to build a much better balance between what we are investing, and building up with enough trained personnel and logistics around the big investments?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e685	Thank you for a good question. A comment on the frigates first: the frigates were acquired with both a specific maintenance concept and a specific crew concept. It took the Stortinget position in its time, and it went on, among other things. The idea is that you could sail three out of five frigates, and that you could also buy a lot of spare parts at the start, because you would gain experience with what you needed from spare parts. However, the representative is quite right that what is going to be important for the operational capacity in the future is among other things. logistics and personnel — not least training of personnel. It is also the case that, as the head of defence has also been involved in different contexts, from one year to two years in the future, there is no immediate response to manning situations, for example. in the Maritime Defence. This is why the Maritime Defense itself has started a long-term work to look at how to recruit, and not least to maintain and recruit, staff who are very popular in other areas of society, such as alcohol and alcohol. in the offshore industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e697	Board Vegar Solhjell – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e700	Let me on behalf of myself and SV say that I am actually happy that the Right does not follow up its opposition budget in government when it concerns the Defence. It's only a shame that the money that's then released by not at the same level is used so badly in the rest of the budget. I should like to ask about a very small part of this budget, namely research into extremism – something for which both the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Justice have a responsibility and which was not prioritised in the previous budget – in particular research into right-wing extremism. The FFI built up an environment after 22 July for such research on its own basis, and it has been noted that more needs to be done. However, resources have not been released, either in the action plan that came earlier this year, or now in the budget. Would the Minister of Defence, along with the Minister of Justice, like to take a concrete initiative to ensure that we have a viable environment for research into right-wing extremism in Norway, and that it comes with resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e707	A small budget comment first: for a party that cuts 1 billion. In the defence budget, it is clear that an increase of 1.5 billion. kr is nothing special to look for. I understand that, but it's got to be SV's choice. When it comes to research into extremism and extreme environments, I think it's a very important area. There's something for discussion in the government as well. It is not just about right-wing extremism; it is also about extremism in all variants. We see the emergence of it more strongly in some areas than in others. The fact that Norway, like some other Scandinavian and Nordic countries, for example has a significant increase in the number of foreign fighters leaving the country, nor is it a favourable development. It's on the contrary very serious and dramatic. This is something we discuss in the Nordic context, which I discuss with my colleagues at Nordic meetings, among others. at a meeting we had here last week. It's something the government, through both the Minister of Justice and other state councils, is discussing. I want to follow it further up, because I think it is an important area in which we need to build up skills, and where we need to cooperate with other countries that also have competence in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e714	Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e726	Before we go to the ordinary Question Time, the President will refer to what was originally said today, that there are quite a number of significant changes in the ordinary Question Time. In this context, the President refers to the electronic overview made available to the representatives. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Questions 1 and 2 from the representatives of Helga Pedersen and Anniken Huitfeldt respectively to the Prime Minister have been transferred to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Question 4, from the representative Kjersti Toppe to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, has been withdrawn. Question 7 from Ms Anne Tingelstad Wøien to the Minister for Transport has been withdrawn. Question 9, from the representative of Mr Kåre Simensen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will, at the request of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, be moved and answered to Question 2, which will also be answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Question 11, from the representative of Mr Sveinung Rotevatn to the Minister for Fisheries, will be raised by the representative of Mr Gunhild Berge Stag. Questions 13 and 15 from the representatives of Rigmor Aasrud and Else-May Botten, respectively, to the Minister for Industry, will be postponed to the next Question Time when the Minister for Industry has left. Question 14, from the representative Odd Omland to the Minister for Industry, will be answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Industry, who has been away. At the request of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the question will be moved and answered before question 3. Questions 16 and 17 from the representatives of Kari Henriksen and Heidi Greni, respectively, to the Minister of Justice and Defence, will be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State is involved in the second meeting. Question 18, from the representative of Kjell-Idar Juvik to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will, at the request of the Minister for Oil and Energy, be moved and answered to Question 5. Questions 19, 20 and 21, from the representatives of Lisbeth Berg-Hansen, Martin Henriksen and Jan Bøhler respectively to the Minister for Knowledge, will be moved and answered before question 1. The first question to be answered after these changes is question 19, from the representative Lisbeth Berg-Hansen to the Minister for Knowledge. For the sake of order, the President will draw attention to the fact that the next two questions are questions 20 and 21, from Martin Henriksen and Jan Bøhler respectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e762	My question to the Minister of Knowledge is: ‘In the Nordkloden report, the government determines that Norway will be the leader in knowledge of the north, north and north. The knowledge institutions in the north provide us with the basis for transforming knowledge and resources into jobs and value creation. The University of Northern Ireland is the leader in aquaculture. In the aquaculture industry, we have the advantage of increasing value creation. We have the University of Narvik with its technology environment that is important for the development of the supplier industry. Why are the two institutions barely mentioned in the government’s north-eastern policy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e776	As the representative Berg-Hansen starts his question, the government has launched its initiative in the north with the report Nordkloden. Five main priorities are presented here: international cooperation knowledge-based business broad knowledge development safer infrastructure better preparedness and environmental protection Knowledge is particularly linked to two of the main fields of action — for obvious reasons. Knowledge and competence are of great importance for the development of working and social life in the north and for Northern Norway to be an attractive place to live, work and study. Knowledge and technological innovation are often the basis for the creation and creation of new jobs. But all five priorities depend on knowledge and competence to be realised. Knowledge development should therefore be broad and must take place in the north, but not just there. It should also be north and north. The knowledge environments in the north have a special opportunity to contribute. These include: six higher education institutions in the three northernmost counties and, in addition, a number of research institutes. Many of these have competence within, among others. aquaculture and technology, as the representative of Berg-Hansen. The Nordkloden report describes how these environments can contribute to the implementation of the visions of the government, including: by educating candidates in the community in northern demand. At the same time, we stress that the University of Tromsø, Norway's Arctic University, is the hub of knowledge development in the north, due to the size and breadth of the trade unions. This does not mean, of course, that the other higher education institutions in the north should not contribute, on the contrary. This applies not only to the teaching places that the representative Berg-Hansen mentions, but also to other universities that exist in the north today. It's just together that we can achieve the ambitious goals the government has set itself to further develop the northern regions. I have visited universities and universities in the north several times myself, most recently yesterday I was in Finnmark. I have personally seen how serious and thorough they are working, both to further develop their professional portfolio and also for tipping and profiling. No one in the management of the institutions I've spoken to has ever disagreed with the importance of having a locomotive with the University of Tromsø, the Arctic University of Norway, on the team. They recognize that gravity applies, also north of the Polar Circle. In addition, they all stress that closer cooperation is desirable. At the same time, I would like to stress that it is not just the Nordic universities that are going to contribute to the development of knowledge. Universities, colleges and research institutes throughout the country will contribute to more knowledge of the sea, climate, glaciers, fish and seabirds and much more. Knowledge development for and about the north is taking place throughout Norway; it is not the geography that determines who will be researching what in this country. The government's Northern Territory bet is looking at new horizons in 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e807	I thank you for your answer. This with closeness there is no doubt about it having great significance. We know that the knowledge environments in the north play an important role – both through research and, in particular, recruitment to the business community. The development of the aquaculture industry is perhaps the best picture of it, because it has just happened in the interaction between nutrition and the knowledge environment. The report 'Future in the North', which the government received in April — just as initiated by our government — indicates that increasing R & D and education spending is the main instrument for increasing value creation in the aquaculture industry. In Northern Ireland, we have what I choose to call the University of Aquaculture. When we see that the only measure in the government's Northern Region Strategy is to aim at providing a big message, I have to ask again whether the Minister of Knowledge can explain the government's lack of initiative and focus on the knowledge sector in Norway's largest aquaculture community, Northland.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e816	Now you shouldn't take criticism on behalf of the government, but maybe we could have an even better reading guide. It may be unreasonable to expect all representatives to have time to read more – or all – documents with which the government comes. Let me just say that the government's long-term plan for research and higher education fits as a hand in gloves to the very competence environment that the University of Northern Ireland has built up. They're very busy with the ocean – Blue Growth, the opportunities that lie in our marine resources. They have built up an environment of expertise around this, in close cooperation with the local industry. The first main priority in the government’s long-term plan is just the sea – ‘Blue Growth’ and other aspects of it. The second priority is climate and environment, which, for a coastal nation that includes Norway to the greatest extent, aquaculture and marine resources. In addition, it is worth noting that the long-term plan and budget contain a significant increase in R & D instruments — the second highest share of GDP since 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e825	I think it's a good thing you can expect big business representatives to read what's coming from the government. Let's do that. That is why it was with great anticipation that we looked forward to the government's Northern Region Strategy. We are pleased with the fantastic summary of the good policy that has been pursued until now. The expectation of new measures was high. There was no need to use a lot of energy to read about the measures – they were unfortunately few. Just what I pointed out, access to labour with the right skills, is also crucial for the business community in the north. When we know the relationship between proximity to educational institutions and getting such workforce in the north, what we're asking is questions. Let's take the technology training and technology disciplines in Narvik – which is the next issue – related to the development of the petroleum industry and the mineral industry, to which the government points. Training people in the north also provides opportunities for value creation and activity in these industries. Doesn't the government see this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e834	I could not agree more. To take the contrast: When the University of Tromsø was established in its time, in the 1960s, it was – at least from the south – to a certain extent a district policy instrument. Today, the northernmost region has our high economic growth, is back in the centre of Norwegian energy policy and Norwegian climate policy and is important security policy. It's a growing region. What we are discussing now is not just the structure of higher education in the north, but what research, development and higher education sector a region needs to grow. For example, the fantastic environment of expertise in technology, located in Narvik, is an important part of it. So I think it's nice that the Workers' Party asks, but the Workers' Party must also decide what kind of policy they want to pursue. We now have an ongoing, wide-ranging discussion about structure in higher education. For the time being, the Labour Party has said absolutely nothing about it. It is then nice to ask, but it is also okay if Norway’s largest party has some answers – experimentally.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e845	Let's move on to question 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e852	I have the following questions for the Minister of Knowledge: ‘North-area policy provides Norway with multi-level tools to prevent and mitigate political conflicts. In today's situation, knowledge policy can contribute to dialogue and keep channels and meeting places open. In the ‘North globe’ status report, there are generally few new measures. In the knowledge section, this is particularly striking. Will the Council of State, despite the fact that the status report does not focus on it, use the knowledge policy to develop and strengthen initiatives that could stimulate research and knowledge cooperation with Russia?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e861	The answer is yes, and I disagree with the problem description. The representative Henriksen points out that the knowledge policy contributes to dialogue and to keeping channels and meeting places open. I fully agree with that. Bilateral cooperation on research and education is an instrument, not only for professional purposes, but also for dialogue. I can reassure the representative that education and research cooperation between Norway and Russia is a high priority. Russia is among the priority partners for Norwegian bilateral research cooperation, in particular in areas where we have common interests and shared resources to manage. Cooperation in education and research is well and comprehensive in a number of areas and is currently not subject to restrictive measures against Russia which Norway has concluded. A lot of Norwegian resources are being allocated to stimulate cooperation between Norwegian and Russian knowledge environments. The representative Henriksen points out that there are few new measures. It is worth noting that there are already a number of measures supporting Norwegian–Russian knowledge cooperation. Several measures are followed up with annual calls for funds. Norway, at the U.D., has relatively recently established two cooperation programmes to strengthen educational cooperation. One is the North Region Programme for 2013-2018, which will contribute to increased knowledge of the north areas based on higher education cooperation between Norwegian actors and actors in Canada, Japan, China, Russia, South Korea and the United States. Five projects under this programme have Russian partners. The second is a programme of cooperation on higher education with Russia for 2011–2016. This programme supports cooperation between universities and higher education institutions in Russia and Norway. The aim is to build long-term institutional cooperation. There are 14 multiannual projects and 21 smaller projects. Norway and Russia also cooperate well within the EU. In fact, Russia is Norway’s main co-operation country among third countries in the EU Framework Programmes for Research. In addition, Norway's participation in the EU Erasmus Pluss programme provides opportunities to finance mobility for students and employees. It also supports the development of joint degrees and other innovation projects with public and private actors. There are also a number of grant schemes for Russian students who will study in Norway, and a total of about 250 Russian students are receiving scholarships under these schemes to study in Norway. This applies to scholarships under the cooperation agreement on higher education and to scholarships in connection with the Arctic University of Norway. This also applies to the North Region Grant, which supports mobility between institutions in North Norway and Canada, the United States of America and Russia, and to the quota scheme. The Research Council has cooperation agreements with the Russian Academy of Sciences, the Russian Foundation for Basic Research, the Russian Foundation for Humanities, and the Russian Foundation for Humanities. Under the agreements, there have been several joint calls in the environment, resources — including petroleum — and climate in the Arctic, but also in social sciences and humanities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e878	I thank the Minister of Knowledge for the answer. It is very good to hear that the Council of State says that cooperation in higher education continues. It may be tempting to say that it is also good to note that the government believes that the red-green North-Region policy was so good that one has chosen to continue it almost unchanged. It's very good, but it's in one area, in knowledge policy, that it's going wrong. In 2013, there were around 1600 Russian students at Norwegian institutions. In the north, for example, at the University of Tromsø, it is particularly clear. They are a significant part of the student population and are very important for international cooperation. When the government now cuts to the institutions to introduce school money for foreign students, it weakens the free principle, it weakens international cooperation, and we can end up getting those students to Norway who have a rich father, not those who are the most talented. Will the Council of State do anything to mitigate the negative impact of the introduction of school money that this cut can have?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e885	Firstly, I believe that it is a great strength in Norwegian foreign policy that it is characterized by continuity. As far as I remember, the Northern Region bet was launched when Jan Petersen was Minister for Foreign Affairs. It has remained under the red-green government and is now continued and strengthened under the new government. I think that's good. It is important for a small country to have a foreign policy continuity. We have not proposed introducing a tuition fee, but we have said that we will open the way for the institutions to do so. It's an assessment based on two things. First, it's a reasonable consideration: Norwegian students pay abroad. It is therefore reasonable to also have an opportunity to do so in Norway. The second consideration is that it opens up precisely the kind of more targeted internationalisation requested by the representative. To put it a little bit on the head: we should get students here because we're good, not just because it's free or tax-funded. There are exceptions for quota students, i.e. those who come as a result of development policy, and we have also made exceptions for where there is institutional cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e892	When the government cuts over 80 million. in the budget of the institutions, institutions have two choices: either cut their budgets or introduce school fees for foreign students from outside the EEA. This will include, inter alia: For Russian students. There are arrangements that allow them to receive scholarships, but too many of them will mean that they will either not be allowed to come to Norway or that they will have to be lucky to have them, for example. parents who can be with and pay. I think that's negative. I also think it is good to continue, but my concern is that both the budget and the Northern Region report represent a missed opportunity, both because there are few new initiatives – we need them in the North Region policy to keep the leadership under control – and because there is a lack of investment in some areas. This applies, for example: the lack of funding for new buildings at the Proximity Centre and Norway opting to be outside Copernicus cooperation. That means we're missing out on new possibilities. Nor is it possible to raise the cooperation dimension with Russia, and that is why I ask the Council of State again whether he will consider new measures, for example. to increase strategic R & D cooperation or to further strengthen institutions’ cooperation in a difficult time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e901	Now, of course, the Foreign Minister is responding to the foreign policy aspects of the Northern Region initiative. I can answer for what we do in knowledge policy. Let me first say that we have to assess it, if there is reason to believe that there will be slightly fewer foreign students if many institutions choose to impose a tuition fee. Then, in future budgets, we have to consider whether to compensate for it in some way. But when that is said, it is true that there is a reduction as a result of saying that institutions can charge tuition fees, but there are also several other initiatives that go to the same institutions to a large extent, which means that the totality of the budget for higher education institutions is a good real growth that is fully equal to the red-green years, as well as a large investment in R & D instruments. For the last three years under the red-green it was a tiny little real growth. After the two years of the new government – or the two budgets, because it has only been a new government for one year – there has been a real growth of 5 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e906	The next question is question 21.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e913	The Minister of Knowledge has a long session in the Chamber today, and I allow myself to ask one more question: ‘In some colleges and secondary schools in counties such as Oslo, Østfold and Telemark, there have been conflicts around the use of lucky garments such as niqab and burka. Until now, the local school owner has intervened and decided that such clothing cannot be used, because it makes it difficult to communicate in education. What does the Council of State think about the need and the possibility of creating national rules and guidelines for this, so that we do not constantly have more local conflicts to deal with by the individual school owner alone?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e922	I would first like to thank you for the question. I know that on several occasions the representative Bøhler has been involved in this and other issues. I think the representative is asking wise questions. I am concerned that everyone should feel welcome to Norwegian universities, both at schools and at colleges, and it should be independent of what you look like and how you choose to dress. The fundamental human rights impose restrictions on the clothing and symbols the schools can prohibit students and students from using. The Government considers that religious freedom, as one of the fundamental human rights, does not, however, prevent the teaching places from prohibiting the use of protruding garments such as niqab and burka in the educational situation, if necessary for professional reasons. Then I want to stress that dialogue and communication are a fundamental part of the learning environment. We're going to have a free and open society where you're going to be able to dress as you please, but I think it must be a matter of course that in most cases you should be able to see the faces of both those who teach and those who sit in seminar and classrooms. Niqab and burka hide their face and therefore help to make communication between the teacher and students more difficult. The garment also complicates communication between students and students. Poor communication affects the quality of education and the learning environment. I therefore believe that the consideration of the individual's freedom to dress as he or she pleases must in some cases give way. I also think it's wise that the institutions take that discussion, even if they don't have students who use, for example. niqab or jar right now. It is important to stress that a ban must be neutral and non-discriminatory. It's e.g. not okay if you say that niqab is destructive to teaching, but that it is allowed to use scarf and hat that covers the face. So that won't be okay. We've seen that some colleges have chosen to ban niqab and burka. Other schools have not imposed a ban on the matter at this stage, but encourage their teachers to guide students away from using the garment based on the disadvantages of the educational situation. Both are within the scope of what is considered to be lawful. But once again, I would like to stress that I think it is wise, and I fully support the institutions that choose to make an orderly regulation for this, because they believe that communication in the educational situation is important. The Government Declaration states that we should'set out rules for the use of religious garments and symbols where the school itself finds it necessary'. The corresponding reasoning applies to higher education institutions, even if there is no separate requirement for their rules of procedure. In several respects, the government has made it clear what we think is the room for action for schools in regulating the use of lucky headgear. We believe that the school owner and the individual college are closest to evaluating these questions, and I trust that they will do so in a good way and address any challenges that may arise.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e939	I thank the Council of State for a very positive response. I think the deepening of the fact that it concerns the learning environment of all these schools, universities and colleges is important, because it is the quality of communication that is affected, for example. in a classroom if you can't see your face and don't have a good communication. Of course, it also affects integration and the ability to get into work after education if you dress like that. We also know that in Muslim countries, like the Emirates, there are similar rules, that there can be no use of lucky clothes in universities and public jobs, etc. But what I want to ask is whether the Council of State can think more about and elaborate, based on such a clear attitude as the Council of State, why it is not better to have a general rule that concerns all educational situations – all schools, colleges and universities – so that you can have a common approach and avoid this becoming a problem over and over again in the different places.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e946	First of all, we are governing the government statement, and it says what the government's policy is. I'm still open that there are some dilemmas in matters like this. Let me take one dilemma: some places can mean that students stop, because it's so important for them to be able to carry niqab, for example. It's obviously a dilemma. Nevertheless, I would like to support the institutions that have introduced the legislation. Another dilemma is that in general, this, which I tried to justify, is not about religious symbols or what you personally think of niqab, or what signals this gives. This is the order of business, based on the functioning of the school or college or university. Then it is common practice – and I think it makes sense to maintain – that the rules of procedure are anchored locally. But then I think that the debate that is, makes it clear to the institutions that it is an advantage to take a fundamental debate on this now, and not necessarily wait until it concerns one or more students.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e953	I also thank you for that deepening. I just want to say that what I'm experiencing in the community I know is that it's an opening to use lucky garments like niqab and burka, giving room for a pressure on girls from radical Islamic environments and conservative Islamic environments. I dare say that there are far more people who are under pressure than those who will stand up to say that this is voluntary use, as some very few have said. That's why I think a clearer rule about what you have to stick to in the education system in Norway would give the girls who are subjected to this pressure, a lot of support, because you drop that whole approach and don't have the ongoing discussion. I understand the objections of the Council of State, but I refer to the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights saying that this is not discriminatory, and that the need to live together, integrate, have dialogue and communication is paramount. That the court says that gives us new impulses to the discussion. I just want to encourage that we have an ongoing assessment of this, because I see it as a real problem in some neighbourhoods.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e960	I share most of the representative's concern about a pressure from radical forces that is translated into a struggle for control of women's bodies. What we know from extreme and radical movements throughout history is that their clear expression of extremism and radicalism is very often about it: fighting about who controls the woman's body and appearance. I believe it is important to combat the cancers that want to push or in worst cases force young girls to cover their faces. At the same time, I believe that when we are going to deal with this in the school system, we have to look at it as a matter of order. I would like to be very clear in the value debate on this matter and stand on the side of the young women who choose themselves – I think that is an important liberal value. At the same time, I believe that in the school system we must view this as part of the Rules of Procedure, and that rules of procedure must be laid down locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e967	So we go back to question 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e974	This question, from the representative Helga Pedersen to the Prime Minister, has been transferred to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e977	\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The Right Party and the Advance Party have, for eight years in opposition, criticised the North Region Initiative of the Stoltenberg II Government and called for more action. In the context of the presentation of the ‘North globe’, the Prime Minister has stated that ‘concreteisation comes into the budget’. Can the Prime Minister respond to where in the budget is the concrete effort, in addition to what was started by the Stoltenberg II Government?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e986	It is a strength for Norway that there is a broad consensus on the broad lines of Northern Region policy. This has been the case since then, Minister of Foreign Affairs Petersen presented the first big-time announcement Options and challenges in the north in 2005. The important north-eastern work was further developed by the Stoltenberg II government. When the Nordgebiete Storingsmessage – vision and instruments were discussed in 2012, the Right and Advance Party agreed to the direction. The government's priority is to continue the efforts on which there has been a broad consensus. This applies, inter alia, to: geological survey in the north, which is estimated at 60 million. kr in the budget, and mineral mapping through NGU by 20 million. kr – two bets to facilitate further growth in the north. Our ambition is to make the northern regions one of the country's most creative and sustainable regions. As it appeared in the debate earlier here today, the growth is now actually higher in the north than in the rest of the country, and that's how we stand here in the Stortinget looking northward, and no longer so as to stand in the north and look down to Stortinget. It is a change of pace that we must continue through offensive measures. That's why the government has set aside 150 million. SEK for industrial projects from 2014 to 2019. We merge the Ministry of Foreign Affairs grant schemes for the northern regions and set up the Arctic in 2030 to implement cooperation projects throughout the Circumpolar Arctic. Enhanced environmental protection, maritime safety, rescue and oil protection are essential in the north. The government has proposed to allocate 9.6 million. kr to the helicopter standby at Bardufoss. We want to establish an oil protection base in the Lofoten/Westerålen and propose to allocate 40 million. kr to this in 2015. Overall, the government in the 2015 budget proposes a budget of 2.9 billion. kr. That's an increase of well half a billion, 574 million. kr, from last year. Not all measures are included in this list. An example of this is the Norwegian North Region diplomacy and cooperation, for example. within Arctic Council. Another example is work we have undertaken to streamline national planning processes to facilitate business development. Not least, many non-participating transport measures. The government strengthens and provides road and rail work in the north. We develop strategies for cross-border connections and follow up Barent's transport plan. Reducing transport costs is an important initiative to increase competitiveness and remoteness in the north. In this way, I believe that the repair of the E6 in the coming years, so that travel time is reduced by 60 minutes, is absolutely crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1003	I notice that the Prime Minister cannot answer where in the budget concreteisation is, but I am very pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is standing up. I am also very pleased that the government is continuing the goals and visions that the Stoltenberg II government had for the North Region bet. I'm glad they agree with us in a lot of the reality description, and I also thank you for recognising the results that have come under the red-green government. However, the answer from the Minister of Foreign Affairs shows that there is no shift in pace from the new government – on the contrary. I would say that from the Labour Party we are pleased with the money that comes to it, for example. polar bear count and mineral mapping. But when the right last year reported in Troms Folkeblad that the right will bet more on the Nordic business than other parties so far have dared to talk about, there is nothing that has been followed up in the budget that has been submitted. There is a cut in travel life, marine value creation program, Copernicus and broadband betting to mention something. So I repeat the question: where in the budget is the Right Long notified bet on business in the north?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1014	This government has followed the same methodology for bringing together and tying the North Sea measures. I believe that numbering party has its weaknesses. Like me, among others. for example, do not include: the movement bet. But based on the methodology used by the Stoltenberg II government, in 2015 there is a wager of almost 3 billion. SEK – 2.9 billion. kr. It's an increase of half a billion dollars, which is twice the increase that the red-green government made in its budget proposal for the current year. During that effort, the important measures I have mentioned, which I believe are essential for development in the north. In addition, there are things that are not numerically fixed. I think, for example: The work of the government now on setting up an environmental base in the Lofoten and the Western Sea is essential, and the opening up of oil and gas exploration in the Barents Sea south-east for the first time since the 1990s will, for example, create more jobs and opportunities for the supplier industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1021	It's interesting to discuss methodology, but it's even more interesting to discuss politics and what kind of priorities you're doing for the next few years. We agree with most of the things in the budget, but we are calling for the bet that was announced on the Right in the opposition. When the government and the foreign minister here say that you spend half a billion more on next year, the question is, what is it for? It's for ice-going research vessels, it's for the new MH building in Tromsø and it's for hospitals in Kirkenes, mainly – bets that we agree on, but that were initiated by the red-green government. On the business side, it's positive, but it's more negative than positive, so the investment in business in the north is negative with the new government. I have also noticed that when Erna Solberg was in Finnmark to present the bet, she said that the time of the special arrangements is over in Finnmark. Then I wonder, what kind of arrangements is the government looking for, and when are they to be removed?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1030	As I said at the outset, I think it is good that there is a broad consensus on the North Region bet. In addition to the fact that there is an industrial activity in the north in terms of jobs, the development of the mineral industry, the farming industry, and the oil and gas industries on the premises of the environment, it is our most important international field of activity. We have sea areas six times larger than our land. I'm not sure if I'm going to attend, but the number's speech is ready. We've used the same methodology as the previous government, and there's an extra bet of over half a billion dollars. I don't think it's unreasonable to take in the hospital operation. In fact, health institutions in the north are important. It's important to take in helicopter bases that go on search and rescue. I believe that there is a good Northern Region profile in the government's budget, and it can also be numerically fixed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1043	This question, from the representative Anniken Huitfeldt to the Prime Minister, has been transferred to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1046	‘The Minister of State says that she ‘walks from dialogue to action in the north’. Is it so to understand that the Prime Minister believes that the former North Region effort was marked by dialogue and little action, and what is it in case that substantiates the claim of more force in the north?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1053	I think I have to repeat some of what I said in the previous round, and hope the representative carries with me because of that. But as I said – and underline – there has been cross-political consensus in the North Region policy. A lot of good work is done, I'm the first to underline it. We are now putting into practice the policy of the north in priority areas such as business, knowledge, infrastructure, preparedness, environment and international cooperation. We do this in the following ways: we organize the entrepreneurial power that exists in the north. The government is now developing a comprehensive strategy for growth and value creation in the maritime industries. We will improve value creation in the seafood industry through a big message and a bill in autumn 2015. There is still an increased potential for farming in the north. We're building infrastructure. The government has increased the state framework for road projects in the north beyond the national transport plan for 2014-2023, e.g. E6 west of Alta and E6 Helgeland north. We have allocated funds to E105 between the Churches and the border with Russia so that it will be completed in the past. Every year, we are building down five to ten border barriers between the Nordic countries to contribute to labour mobility. The Nordic Council of Ministers’ Border Obstacles Council is working to reduce the processing time in the EU’s social security area. It is also the case that the government has initiated a pilot project to coordinate state objections, which is already under way by six statesmen, including the United States. Nordland participates. We have a good starting point for realising the potential for growth and development in North Norway and for Norway's position in the Arctic. As I also mentioned in my reply to the representative Pedersen, it is also important that we now open up new exploration areas in the Barents Sea. In particular, it is essential for the supply industry along the Finnmark coast, the Nordland coast and the Tromsky coast. It is also the case that we take initiatives in this area with knowledge, development and research. Many of the industrial activities that will take place in the north in the years to come will be linked to industries where high value chains are produced, where a lot of knowledge, research and development is provided, and there are products that tolerate the Norwegian level of costs. The development in the north is actually positive. We see that there is growth in jobs. We also see that there are now critical clusters that are being reprocessed, for example. in space technology. The centre we have on Andøya, combined with the clusters that you have in Tromsø and Narvik, is one of the leading and positive environments worldwide.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1070	When I ask the question like that, it's because of Right offensive slogans: From dialogue to action. It substantiates in a way that before it was just conversations, while now it's real action. So my question is, is there any criticism of the former government in this slogan, that before it was just dialogue, while now it's really new action? We see what is being presented, four new measures. It's nice action, but they're not exactly signaling any new action. Is there any reality in this slogan – that there was too much dialogue in the past and that action has now come into the Ministry of Foreign Affairs?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1079	I noticed at least, just a few days after this government joined, that the opposition was very concerned about pointing out what was thought to be flaws related to the North Region bet. I think it's important to give the new government an opportunity. Now we have presented our first budget. As I also stated in my reply to the representative Pedersen, we have increased the bet by half a billion kroner to the northern regions, which is twice as much as it was set up in the budget for 2014. But the most important thing here – as I have also emphasised – is that there is a broad consensus on this North Region bet. What we do in the north is also very close to our foreign and security policy, where there is also a broad consensus on the main lines, even though things outside change. So dialogue is good, but action is also not immaterial.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1090	Is the current Foreign Minister more offensive than the former Foreign Ministers in the last eight years? The reason why I ask the question is that it appears quite offensive in public space to say that now we are going from word to action, now we are going from dialogue to action. It seems like a criticism of what has happened before. Does the Foreign Minister himself think that it has now really become a whole new offensive, contrary to what was the case while the Workers' Party was running the Ministry of Foreign Affairs?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1097	I feel that I have answered the question by saying that there is a broad consensus on the main lines of the Northern Region policy. I believe that this government has presented an offensive state budget. We're increasing the stakes in the northern regions. But it's not just about money. For example, the road effort is very positive and very decisive. It's not even in the amount of $2.9 billion. kr. What we're doing now in farming, opening up new opportunities in the farming industry, opening up new opportunities in the mineral industry, which has a huge potential in the north, and the fact that, for the first time since the 1990s, opportunities for exploration in the south-east of the Barents Sea are now being opened up. But I think it is also positive that we can agree on this. We all have a strong interest in succeeding in the north, and I don't think you should create unnecessary divisions. I'm at least the last to start setting characters on my own efforts here, but I think we've presented a good and offensive budget in these areas, which I can stand by.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1106	So we go to question 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1113	‘Fire reactor number four at the Kola nuclear power plant has expanded its lifetime by 25 years. It's almost twice the technical life of the reactor. “Norwegian authorities have to take responsibility for determining whether this is appropriate,” says Bellona’s nuclear physicist Nils Bohemia. I will follow this up by asking the Minister for Foreign Affairs what the authorities are doing to Russia to determine whether the continued operation of these reactors is safe and whether it poses a safety risk to the Finnmark population.»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1120	First, I would like to thank the representative Simensen for raising a very important question – a question that I also discussed with Minister of Foreign Affairs Lavrov when he was in Kirkenes a few weeks ago. Our security is crucial. It is in Norway’s interest to have nuclear safety cooperation with Russia. Therefore, State Secretary Glad Pedersen has also participated in the so-called commission that is looking at this, now in the autumn. I thought it was right to continue this important work with Russia. It has produced measurable results for more than 20 years and has protected the population and the environment in Norway. The effort is considered to be a success internationally. Norway has chosen to contribute to actions at Kola nuclear power plants that strengthen our own safety. We have deliberately funded security measures that cannot be linked to the extension of the lifetime of the Kola reactors, including: training and training measures. It's been significant. Therefore, the number of safety incidents at Kola nuclear power plants has declined significantly since the 1990s, also resulting from Norwegian and Nordic interventions. Russia has a strong self-interest in protecting its population from nuclear accidents, as Lavrov also underlined. We have seen a positive development in both the ability and the willingness to contribute to this at Kola nuclear power plants. Of course, our relationship with Russia is marked by the situation in Ukraine, but, as I said at the outset, we both have strong interests in the continuation of nuclear security cooperation. It was confirmed during this Nuclear Safety Commission meeting. We're still cooperating well on the nuclear challenges, and we're going to do that in the future. At the same time, we have different perceptions about the further operation of Kola nuclear power plants. I specifically addressed the situation with Minister of Foreign Affairs Lavrov at the Kola power plant, and he promised to follow up the case. We have clearly stressed from the Norwegian side that Kola nuclear power plants should be phased out, and in particular the two oldest reactors. Coal nuclear power plants consist of four reactors. The lifetime of reactors 3 and 4 was extended respectively last year and this year to 2026 and 2039. These reactors differ little from Western power stations that were built at the same time. The type of reactor is currently operating in EU countries such as Hungary and Finland. The concession for the two oldest reactors at the power plant, reactors 1 and 2, expires in 2018 and 2019. The Russian authorities have initiated a pilot project to assess the longevity of the two oldest reactors. It is important to stress that many countries have extended the lifetime of old reactors. However, I share the representative's concern about the extension of the service life of the reactors at Kola nuclear power plants, and I will continue to express the Norwegian view to the Russian authorities – that the safety level of the oldest reactors is not satisfactory and that they should be closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1139	I thank you for the answer from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and am very pleased that he is so clear and not least works so well with the Russian authorities. But when I read the budget papers, I see that there are two different views about what you want to do. On the one hand, cooperation on security measures at Russian nuclear power plants in our neighbourhoods is to be continued. At the same time, the government is clear that both the international and Norwegian efforts in Russia will be reduced in the future, despite the fact that we all know the safety risks of the reactors there. Such double signals create some doubts about the ambition of the government in this matter. Is it so to understand that the government will continue to reduce our efforts, despite the fact that it will be operating for at least 25 years in time for the reactors at Kola nuclear power stations?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1144	As I underlined in my answer, we have taken up the situation around the Kola power plant – the safety and possible renewal of the concession for the two oldest power reactors – with Minister of Foreign Affairs Lavrov. My clear recommendation is that they should be closed. With regard to Russia's responsibilities, Russia, as one of the world's largest economies, with high oil and gas revenues, has an independent responsibility to pay for both safety, the environment and the upgrading of its own nuclear power plants. Norway has worked closely with the other Nordic countries and contributed — not to projects that extend their lifetime, but to projects that increase safety, and we work with the Russian authorities in this area. As I said, we're going to continue through the Commission. But I believe that Russia is able to pay the main weight of this itself, not Norwegian taxpayers.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1151	I thank you again for the answer. We agree that the nuclear challenges in the north are challenging and that there must be good cooperation between the two countries. To the surprise of many, there is no trace of the specific problem that I am addressing today in the government's report on Northern Region Policy, the Nordkloden. It surprises me. I had expected to find it described under the chapter on environmental protection, safety and preparedness, for the nuclear threat from the nuclear power stations in Kola will hang over us until we passed in 2040. That is why it should have been part of – also in order to give a clear and clear signal back to Russia that they must assume their responsibilities in this matter, on which the Minister for Foreign Affairs was now involved. That is why I have a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs about whether the measures in this respect can be to hold back Norwegian contributions – until Norway has at least confirmed the end date of the reactors in Kola.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1160	As I said at the outset, I think it is very good that this question is asked in Stortinget. It also gave me an opportunity to refer to the conversation with Minister of Foreign Affairs Lavrov in Kirkenes, where I raised this question, and where Lavrov said he would look at it. There's been a good dialogue here before. There was a good dialogue also during the meeting of the Nuclear Safety Commission, where State Secretary Glad Pedersen took part. I believe that, in dialogue with Russia, we must try to get to the bottom of their plans for the two oldest nuclear reactors. Here, Lavrov has promised me feedback. Based on that feedback, we should look at how we can most strategically work vis-à-vis Russia to influence the highest level of nuclear safety, and that these two reactors are shut down, which I think would be the ideal. But we have to do it wisely and with diplomacy, which I believe the representative and I agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1167	So we go to question 14.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1174	This question, from the representative Odd Omland to the Minister for Industry, will be answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Industry, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1177	I allow myself to ask the following questions: ‘Previous Minister of Industry Trond Giske presented Norway’s first mineral strategy in March 2013. The Solberg government has followed up the strategy in its policy platform, with formulations to facilitate growth in the mineral industry. However, the industry has received signals from the Ministry that the mineral strategy no longer applies because it came from the previous government. Can the Council of State decide on this vote and explain what is the government's further plans for investing in the mineral industry?»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1186	I think there might be a misunderstanding here, related to formalities. As the representative is aware, a strategy – also developed by the former Council of State – is a description of the policy of the government in a given area and is not necessarily anchored by a big-scale communication. The strategy referred to here was not promoted as a big message. For this reason, the strategy – formally speaking – will no longer be descriptive of the current policy when the government that has presented the strategy fails. I believe there is a broad consensus on the importance of the mineral industry. These are purely formalities. The most important thing is – as the representative was also concerned about its question – what policies are actually being pursued and what actions are being implemented. Most of the descriptions and measures in the strategy for the mineral industry, as promoted by the former Council of State, are broad political consensus. This government will facilitate sustainable growth in the mineral industry. We will continue the mineral mapping in South Norway, and we will continue the mineral mapping in North Norway beyond the period planned by the previous government. We have intensified efforts to simplify and streamline decision-making processes related to the Planning and Building Act, and we support the Professorate of Mineral Engineering at NTNU. Furthermore, we are committed to strengthening the capacity and competence of the Directorate for Mineral Management. We need to find the mineral resources, and we need to manage them for the benefit of society. The State provides tools to complement the market. Although Innovation Norway’s instruments would be small for some mineral projects, such contributions may send signals to the major actors that Norwegian venture capital trusts the projects and the companies involved and the willingness to share the project risk. Substantial efforts have been made to simplify and streamline planning processes. A pilot scheme has been put in place in which the State will coordinate state objections. The scheme will be extended to several counties. We also assess whether the Directorate for Mineral Management should have its own and stronger role in dealing with proposals for regulatory plans in the municipalities. At the same time, the threshold for promoting objections is higher than in the past, and the threshold is higher to raise objections. Furthermore, general industrial policy measures related to competence will be important for the mineral industry. I would particularly like to refer to measures such as the tax credit scheme TaxFUNN, the research programme BIA, the User-driven Innovation Arena, and Nutrition PhD, doctoral education related to a company.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1205	I thank you for your answer. I am very pleased that the Council of State stresses that one will continue an important and good strategy for this industry, a strategy developed by the government of Stoltenberg. I feel that some of the government councils here are of a more general nature when it comes to the bets made. I Prop. 1 S is the mineral industry correctly referred to as one of two priority industries, but as far as I have registered, it is not shown again in concrete terms in our budget. Is it just words, or can the Council of State explain what lies ahead of concrete budget proposals with regard to investing in this important industry in the future and not just give general consideration to the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1210	There are considerable opportunities associated with the mineral industry in Norway, and there is no doubt about this. I think I read somewhere that it's 1 400 billion. kr in value creation related to industry, and thousands of jobs. But industry needs to develop in a sustainable way, and it needs to be profitable, and mineral prices go up and down. If you want to succeed in the mineral industry, you have to have good road links and lower transport costs. There's a lot of bets from the government. We also arrange for a more flexible process in terms of objections, which has been a hindrance to this industry, and we show a general yes-position. But we have the same vision for the mineral industry as we had for the farming industry. Today, the farming industry is one of the most important jobs and sources of income for Norway, and the mineral industry is a profitable industry to pay taxes and taxes to Norway to pay for the welfare country, not an industry to be subsidized.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1215	I thank you again for the answer, and much of what the Council of State was about, we agree. But for this with concrete proposals in the budget: one of the measures in the strategy is to bet on the Directorate for Mineral Management, and also on SIVA to adapt to investment in the mineral industry. I Prop. 1 S is not an increased bet on the directorate, but SIVA has a cut of 8.5 million. kr. How does it correspond to government rates on the mineral industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1220	As far as the mineral industry is concerned, I think what is most crucial for this industry is related, among other things, to: The transport costs, which I was talking about. It is a major increase in building new roads and infrastructure in the government budget. Then a bad guy has been the planning process, and that's where we've been inciting simplifications. This should be a surplus industry, not an industry that we are going to subsidize, but I agree with the representative that it should be incentives, and I mentioned the schemes that exist in Innovation Norway. I also mentioned this with the support of a professorship in mineral engineering at NTNU and strengthening the capacity and competence of the Mineral Management Directorate, which is important. So this has to be in addition to the more general instruments that I had in mind.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1225	So we go back to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1232	‘As you know, there has been a test of local motor traffic management in outland since 2000 in 7 municipalities. In 2008, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs agreed that the experiment could be continued until the new law on motor travel in land and watercourses has been clarified and entered into force. However, the test was terminated with effect from 1 May 2014, when the testing scheme was to be extended. As you know, this attempt was stopped, and a new law is under preparation. Will the Council of State ensure that these test municipalities are allowed to extend the experiment until the entry into force of new law?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1239	I have a great understanding of the unfortunate situation that has arisen for the seven original test municipalities. The seven original experimental municipalities have had a test of local motor traffic management in outland since 2001. This experiment was concluded by the red-green government with effect from 1 May 2014 and replaced by a new experiment that allowed 40 municipalities to establish snowmobile loops for pleasure driving. This government extended the attempt to include several municipalities, but after the involvement of the Civil Ombudsman and the Stortinget, the government decided to wind up the new attempt on 19 June 2014. Instead, the government decided to promote amendments to the law on motor travel in outland and watercourses that allow municipalities to set snowmobile runs. These amendments will be submitted to the Stortinge before the end of the year. Because the attempt of which the seven municipalities were part was terminated in May 2014 and all the previous regulations have been repealed, it is not possible to extend the experiment for these municipalities. If the seven municipalities are to have an experiment pending the entry into force of a new law, a new experiment must be established, with a call for tests, consultation, etc. This will not be feasible until a new law has been adopted by the Stortinget and entered into force. Work on the bill will soon be done. The municipalities that have already done much of the work required under the new rules could have decisions on snowmobiles running clearly shortly after the Stortinge has adopted the legislative changes and these have entered into force.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1246	Thanks for the answer. I'm familiar with what's going to be black here, both the history and the history behind that extension of the experiment was stopped. The correct thing is that the reason why it was stopped was that today's government expanded the scheme, so that everyone who wanted it would be included in the trial scheme. Therefore, the Civil Ombudsman broke in and said this was no attempt. The experiment as such was completed in 2008, but the municipalities were nevertheless given the opportunity to do so until the new law was in place. The background for lifting it or ending it on 1 May 2014 was that all seven original municipalities – if they wanted it – would be included in the new scheme. The intention was not that the system they had should be stopped, but on the contrary that more people should be involved in the scheme. What's happening now is that they're being affected. And once again, the question is, is there no temporary opening so that these can get a system until the new law is in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1255	The representative Juvik and I probably agree. I would also like to see these municipalities have had the opportunity to continue a test until the new law is in place. But when the old test is completed, it is not possible – then a new test must have been started. It would take longer to get that attempt in place than it actually takes for Stortingen to deal with the matter we are about to file. We are now working quickly to put the matter before Stortinget. Then it is in Stortinget's hands to deal with the bill as quickly as possible. It also means that the period during which these municipalities will not have the opportunity to have snowmobile rides can be relatively short.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1262	Thanks for the follow-up response. I agree that we agree on the challenges for the seven municipalities, and I am pleased that a new law is finally coming. I'm also glad that we get it, as I understand it, quite soon to the Storting, and then it's up to the Storing to have progressed on it. The important thing to understand here is that this will go beyond schemes that have been built up over 10 to 15 years. There is a service facility, there is an established loop, and there is an attitude in the population – so I fear that there will unfortunately be a lot of illegal driving here, especially in the municipalities that have provided legal driving. I also see that the municipalities say – I have received feedback both from the municipality of Vinje and from the municipality of Hattfjelldal, which has chosen this. Then I just want to clarify – but that's what we get when the debate comes, I see the debate is going on in the media – that it's not about free slipping of scooters, it's about whether the municipalities are going to be allowed to manage this or not. When can the Storting expect the law to come to Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1271	Our ambition is to present it now before the end of the session – in other words, before the New Year. And then it would be up to Stortingen to provide a quick and effective treatment. I also agree with the representative Juvik that it is not a question of driving off – nor with the new law. We trust that the municipalities will be able to balance important considerations. Open air should be taken into account, natural quality should be taken into account, but we want to show the municipalities the confidence that they can make that balance. My hope is that we will get the law in place quickly, and that the period of time during which the municipalities do not have the opportunity to use snowmobiles as they have had will be as short as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1287	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1295	‘On the occasion of the presentation of the government’s Northern Territory Communication, it has been found that the Sami is almost absent from the report. At the same time, claims were made that 98 pst. of the areas in the north are unused. Further figures for 2014 show that the government uses the consultation mechanism to a small extent compared to previous years. If this results in correctness, what will the Council of State do to correct this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1302	The government presented the report on Northern Region Policy, Nordkloden, Monday 10 November. The report provides an overview of what the government has already achieved in the Northern Region policy and outlines the main areas of government activity. The report is not intended to provide a full picture of all the policy areas relevant to the north. In the case of Sami interests, the government is concerned that co-operatives themselves can actively participate in the processes and can make use of the opportunities that development in the north can provide. In order to ensure that the different interests are safeguarded, the government emphasises good dialogue in development matters between the authorities, the Sameting, the local population and economic operators such as the reindeer industry. The emphasis of the government on dialogue with indigenous peoples is evident in the North Region Report. In addition, several activities of relevance to Sami knowledge and international cooperation are mentioned, including: the establishment of a joint Nordic Sami language centre, the work of the Sami university with traditional Sami knowledge and the work of the International Repurchase Centre. The claim that 98 pst. of the areas in the north are unused, to which the representative of Lauvås refers, was pronounced at the Business Conference Agenda North Norway, and is taken from the report of world-class North Norway. The opinion must therefore be on the account of the author. In my view, it is important to distinguish between uninhabited and unused areas. Of course, the large parts of the areas in the north used for reindeer and off-road industries are not natural to characterise as unused. The representative of Lauvås also mentions the consultation system. For the Government, it is important to consult the Sameting and, where appropriate, other Sami interests in the matters covered by the consultation procedures. The number of consultations may vary from year to year based on the issues under consideration. Important matters the government has consulted on so far this year, including: amended terms of reference for the work of a Nordic Joint Convention and the establishment of a public body to review existing arrangements, measures and legislation for the Sami languages in Norway. The government is also concerned about having a good dialogue and meeting with Sami interests in addition to the formal consultations. Both the ministries and other government authorities have extensive political and administrative contact with the Sametinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1313	The Council of State can then explain why the Sameting has not been consulated, as the Sameting itself has wanted to remain in areas relating to changes in the reindeer management, sales or privatisation of the State Forest, changes in rules for the fishing of royal crabs — as some examples. The right’s own association representative, Ellen Kristine Saba, criticises his own government and believes that there has been no follow-up to the consultation system, and is disappointed with this. So why does the government choose not to use the consultation system, as the Sameting itself wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1320	There may be differing views between the Government, the Departments and the Federation on what matters to consult on. We believe that we relate to what is customary in this area, and to the procedures that apply to consultation with the Sameting. So we fulfil the consultation obligation, and we have good dialogue with Sametinget. I think that the representative should also bring forward the issues in which we have progressed in the field of common policy – that we have now relaunched the negotiations on a Nordic Convention, which stopped under the red-green regime, and that we have now set up a public body to look at how we can strengthen the Sami languages. These are important political issues, which have also been important for the Sameting, and where we have both had good consultation and dialogue and so far achieved good results in dialogue with the Sameting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1327	I see that the union representative is going to have a serious talk with his own, so we'll see what comes out of it when it comes to the consultations. The Nordgebiet message is, as you can read it, also a business message. We see in the draft state budget for 2015 that it is cut for Sami purposes, that it is cut by 6 million. kr to the reindeer and agricultural industries over the agricultural agreement, and that the Sameting has not been compensated for wage and price increases. It is then natural to ask: How does the Council of State think that these real cuts will lead to recovery in the economic development of the Sami regions?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1334	It is right that the representative, Mr Lauvås, points out that the 6 million. kr is a consequence of the grubbing-up agreement, not the budget as such. We believe that we have a good prioritisation of the common policy objectives of the State budget. It is also the case that cooperatives make use of instruments other than the financial appropriations that pass through the Sameting. It is about transport, education and action through Innovation Norway, and it is right, as it is in the undertone of the issue, that the government is strongly committed to economic development, growth and jobs. It's the most important tool we have for maintaining housing in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1339	So we go to question 18.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1346	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: ‘The process industry is one of the most important industries in North Norway. There is room for both further development of today's industry and the launch of new power-intensive productions, such as: magnesium or data storage centre. In the north area notification, it appears that only the best possible transport of the power is being undertaken and that it will not be further processed near the production site. Why is it more important to transport energy out of the country and out of the country than to further process it near the place of production?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1355	Let me first deal with the same thing that State Council Sanner was just about to do. We have not tried in the Nordkloden report to provide an adequate, detailed explanation of all the policies that apply, neither to North Norway nor to other parts of the country. However, it is a goal for the government to facilitate profitable jobs, employment and value creation in all parts of the country, not least in Northern Norway, which is a part of the country with large natural resources, which is already creating great values both in the power-generating industry and also in renewable power generation – which is also an industry. Then I want to say that in the last 50 years, the inter-national connections we have built to other countries have served all of Norway well. They have served producers and users well. This is not least the case in North Norway, which has better security of supply, including: due to the inter-territorial connections existing in northern Finland and in northern Sweden. The government is committed to ensuring good framework conditions for industry, so that profitable industrial projects can be developed throughout the country – including in North Norway. Then it is a very basic condition that you have a sufficiently robust and well-developed power grid. That is not the case in North Norway today. North of Ofoten, power supply is vulnerable to failure, especially in the winter months when the region imports large amounts of power. This critical network situation also prevents us from phased into new renewable power generation in our northernmost part of the country. The government wants to facilitate the realisation of a larger part of the power potential in North Norway. We want both industry and ordinary consumers to have safe access to power. Therefore, there is a need to increase the capacity of the central network in North Norway. In 2013, Statnett was allowed to build the new line between Ofoten in Nordland and Balsfjord in Troms. Once that management is completed, security of supply for existing customers, for new production and for industry will be better than is the case today. The process is in full swing, the construction has started, the contracts have been awarded, and there is significant construction activity and significant activity for suppliers in the north. I'm looking forward to that wire being finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1364	I fully agree recently on the bets made on the web internally in North Norway. That's not what I was asking, that's why you focus on getting the power out and not exploiting it in this part of the country that's mentioned in the Nordkloden report. It's interesting to hear that the North Globe is not adequate. I understand that too, but it's a little noticeable that you have left out one of the largest resources in it. I would like to show that the head of the county council in Northern Ireland was quite early and said that they felt that Nordland had been excluded from this northern division. That's true, because what's inside it, and not least what's going on in force, which is big in Northern Ireland, you don't see much at all. I see that the Prime Minister disagrees with this and shows that it is a lot of bets. But the bets she refers to are things that are largely initiated by the former red-green government. My question is then: why is it not more about the Northern Earth bet?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1371	Let me first say that one of the projects I'm reasonably sure of is mentioned in the North Globe, is just the power line that I've been talking about, namely the section of Ofoten-Balsfjord. The last time I checked, Ofoten was in Northernland. Let me say that when we talk about North Norway and the power situation, I want to say that this is a fairly wrong starting point. In fact, there are considerable internal differences in security of supply. In parts of North Norway, much more power is produced than both industry and ordinary consumers need. In other parts of North Norway, little power is produced, and there is a need both to shift the power out of the producing regions and to shift power to consumers elsewhere. All of this is done by the government in a targeted way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1376	We don't disagree with the fact that we have to build the line to ensure power even in the part of the country that we're talking about here, but I miss the investment in land-based industry, not least power-processing industry, that we were in. There is a lot of writing and saying about this, but I see big investments planned, perhaps up to 130-150 billion. kr, to get it not only within our part of the country, but also out of the country and even out of the country. What I'm missing is that you look at a bet to put the power into use near the production site – I want to use the term ‘short travel force’. We're already big on hydropower, and about 55 pst. of all exports from the Nordic countries come from the power-processing industry. It's actually equal to 12 billion. kr. Nevertheless, it is not mentioned in this message. My question, my challenge, is: Will the Minister be involved and take the initiative to build up industry where you can use the power of this part of the country in the form of a mass force?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1381	Let me say that again: the government is ready to facilitate industrial development in all parts of the country, as well as in Northern Norway, as well as in Northern Ireland. The representative Juvik comes from one of the parts in North Norway that are really big in the power-intensive industry. The grips that were made there many generations ago were about harvesting the rich natural resources by building the region's adjustable hydropower. It created the basis for electrification of Helgeland, it created opportunities for industrialisation of Helgeland, and it was an important contribution to our getting the modern Norway we got. Former Prime Minister Stoltenberg said that the time of the large hydropower expansion is over. Now we have a government that doesn't share that view.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1390	Then we go back to question 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1397	‘The planning of new Route 22 over Glomma in Fet in Akershus is under way. Today's bridge has too much capacity, and today it is long-distance automobiles and major traffic problems. New Glomma crossing is mentioned in the National Transport Plan 2014-2023. How is progress in the planning of new Glomma crossings, and when does one see that the development of the project can start?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1404	This project is mentioned in the national transport plan, but it is therefore within the last six-year period and is not intended, according to the national transport plan, to be completed in that period. 200 million. kr has been entered into the period 2018-2023, while there will be a need for a State contribution of 130 million. NOK after 2023 as well. It was therefore a project that was prioritised far in advance during the previous government. After the Glomma crossing entered the transport plan, Vegvesenet has planned the project in cooperation with the municipality of Fet. Based on an opportunity study from 2012, a planning programme has now been developed that will be treated in the Fet municipality around the turn of the year 2014/2015. The programme includes a silage report that intends to reduce the number of alternatives between three and five. These will be subject to an impact assessment during the municipal sub-planning phase. The municipal sub-plan is expected to be approved during 2016 and approved regulatory plan is expected during 2019. With this progress, the State Road Administration assumes that construction will start at least in 2021 and completion in 2024. It also assumes that a funding solution for the project will be found. But that means that you've started, you've got a plan for what you're doing, you're dealing with the priorities that were in the national transport plan. Then there could always be a political discussion about changing the priorities along the way, but the progress that is now taking place shows at least that one is going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1411	Thank you to the Minister for Transport for your answer. I believe that both the Minister for Transport and the undersigned are impatient to have a new Glomma crossing built. The local elected representatives of the Labour Party are, and the local elected representatives of the Progress Party are, and possibly with the exception of SV, both in the municipalities concerned and in Akershus, there is a locally broad agreement that this is a required project. Today's Fetsund bridge is bottleneck's no. one on the road network in Rome. Today's cows are a major problem for eastern parts of Rome, but also for parts of Hedmark and Eastfold, which use this connection into Lillestrøm and the Oslo area. I have previously recorded that State Secretary Hoksrud has been out and signalled when the road is due, and there have been a little different years than the Road Service has stated. History is history, now we're going to see the future. So if this is what the Council of State said, it's going to be possible to build the road in 2024, it'll be another ten years. Is it possible to do it earlier?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1418	One might think that ten years is far ahead of time, but it seemed that the Workers' Party was very acceptable when one just a little over a year ago was involved in driving and handling the National Transport Plan. It is okay that the Workers' Party in the opposition suddenly believes that what the Workers' Party did in the position was impulsive, but there may be a discussion between the Workers' Party's internal organs. We aim to overcomply with the national transport plan. With a steady increase from the annual budgets, we are already ahead of the total 6-7 billion form. kr. The starting point was not very good from 2014, but good budget agreements with the Christian People's Party and the Left have made us pick up and lie well. Then there will always be a discussion about which road projects are being accelerated. We have accelerated the planning of 12 road projects only in 2014 and simplified the processes around another 13. I would like to contribute more than just to speed up this project too, but it is also about the framework set by the Stortinge for funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1425	I must say that I liked the Minister of Transport in the first answer, but then he couldn't stay. I think it is a pity that we have a Minister of Transport who sees almost all the questions being asked, as criticism of the current government. I have not criticised the current government for the work on new Glomma crossing at all – I am busy finding solutions. It was a milestone when we got it into the national transport plan. The project was mentioned – from not being a project – and thus also started the plan work, as the Council of State also said. It's now in good proportion locally, at least first phase. I'm busy finding solutions, busy looking forward. Ten years ahead is quite a long time. My question is quite simply: is it practical to be able to build the road sooner than in ten years, and could the Minister of Transport make a promise to those who actually sit in line for hours every day?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1430	I do not see it as a criticism when the Workers' Party criticises the plan they themselves adopted when they put in government. It is more of a criticism of its own decisions. What I'm signalling at the same time is that this government has already shown that we will try to speed up road projects – we've already done it with a number. We're increasing the appropriations, and that's because we have a goal of getting more. In the 2015 budget, we have proposed a doubling of planning resources, precisely because we want to have a portfolio of several projects that can be implemented more quickly. Building better roads and better railways, improving infrastructure, expanding our living and working areas, cutting costs in business, creating greater values in society, and not least reducing the number of road accidents that kill or harm our fellow citizens on the roads. That's why I'm very positive to anyone who wants to join in and try to speed things up. But at the same time, I must be allowed to recall the realities that the representative himself was involved in and adopted when his party was put in office, without seeing it as a criticism of today's government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1446	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1453	‘The Trander Railway and E6 between Trondheim and Steinkjer have been adopted in the national transport plan following the chosen modernisation concept. Investments do not have the same timetable, but at the same time planning between the Railway Agency and the State Road Service is essential for optimal solutions to the state’s investment in the route. This has proved to be a challenge. Will the State Council initiate simultaneous and joint planning between the State Road Service and the Railway Agency in order to keep progress and ensure the quality of the project?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1460	It is true that in the national transport plan made in the previous period, there are several projects that are not as well collated as they should be. Therefore, the government has gone in and tried to see how we can adjust the progress of several projects, just to get more rational progress. We have also gone into politics and intervened in many planning processes where things were about to stop, precisely because it costs money to plan, and because it costs money when things stop. With regard to the intercity bet around Oslo, on the Eastern Line and in Horten, the planning processes had stopped. We went in and cut through and made decisions earlier than usual. In the case of freight terminals in Trondheim and Bergen, we have also gone in early to get the process ahead. And as far as the Ringerix Railway is concerned, we have laid the foundation for what I think the representative here wants, namely that the Road Administration and the Railway Agency are working closely together to ensure that they do not plan things isolated from each other – it is usually cross-roads that create problems – but also that they look at where it is possible to build common foundations, especially with regard to fjord crossings, bridge crossings or tunnel solutions, and that they cooperate on it. On the line in Trøndelag, as we are talking about, there are also changes. The Road Administration and the Railway Agency briefed local municipalities on this a few days ago – I think it was November 13th – simply because they wanted to see how they could coordinate planning. The status is that on the Ranheim–Værnes section, Vegvesenet develops a control plan, while the Railway Station is currently running a municipal sub-plan for double tracks on the Trondheim–Stjørdal section. The train and road routes are separated. Therefore, the common planning document is not natural for the whole route, but the railway works and the road network closely interact with trasé choices through the Gift Box. A new run is to be built for both road and track. For the Stjørdal-Åsen route, there is a common railway and road planning programme adopted in the municipalities. Where the agencies work together to select current options on the route and the agencies work to assess opportunities and challenges for different road and track solutions. The Road Administration and the Railway Agency have a joint pilot study for the Åsen-Steinkjer route, with cooperation and coordination during the start of the spatial plan work along the route. So is the Railway Station in the start-up phase for the detailed electrification of the Trondheim-Steinkjer route. The design of detailed solutions will require interaction between the Road Administration and the Railway Works, and there they are in good dialogue. Then there is a dialogue between the Railway Agency and the Vegvesen on the Trondheim-Steinkjer route, and the levels work together in planning where appropriate. Once one has already made these adjustments, based on both the wishes locally and the signals we have given – which I, among other things, have. I went when I was in Trondheim before the budget was presented – I want to see the progress they now have, and how it is received locally, before I go in and possibly comment more on further cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1481	I would like to thank the Council of State for a very good and complementary answer. I have to say that I very much appreciate the fact that the Council of State has detailed knowledge of the project, and that he knows the different subprojects, because there are different challenges. I hope and believe – I have no reason not to believe it – that the Council of State will have commitment and press on this route. Getting electrified The Thrønderbahn is an extremely important project. In terms of achieving good climate performance, it is, in isolation, the most effective climate action throughout the national transport plan. Once we electrify Tronderbanen and Meråkerbanen, we cut 14,000 tonnes of CO2 this year. It's awesome. And when this is now planned in coordination with the road and the track, hopefully you will also get good solutions. I have no follow-up questions other than that. I want little polemics and a lot of progress on this project.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1493	I'm very happy about that. Polemik leads to very little, but actually getting the projects in a good path is important. The cooperation between the Road Administration and the Railway Agency is important to us. This does not mean that an always builds things parallel, neither in terms of time nor place, but it is important that one takes into account one another and can co-operate with the investment where necessary. This is something I experienced very well even when I drove the E6 this summer. Then we had several stops and looked both at railway stations on the Trønderbahn, met the freight industry and met those who use the E6 between Trondheim and Steinkjer as usual. I even got to drive a truck on the track, with a driving instructor at my side – so everything was legal! My experience from there, and after visiting the weight of Verdal, is that the need is great to repair these sections of the road and to make the tread more robust. We've also been betting on the Tronderbahn by extending the pendulum to Melhus because it's an important collective solution that complements good roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1504	I'm not going to drag this any longer than necessary. The councils have given good answers, and I'm very happy that he has seen the challenges coming up with his own eyes, especially on the route between White Hammer and Åsen, where it's very dangerous, and where there are a lot of fatal accidents in which professional drivers lose their lives. That's the truth. There's got to be a fix. Hopefully, joint planning will now be so good that you choose good, forward-looking trasé choices, and then it will be our common challenge to find funding for these projects when you get that far. This is not entirely in line with the question-taking framework, but I do not have any follow-up questions this time either. I just thank you for the answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1511	Does the Council of State wish to respond?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1514	Then I thank you for the question and promise good cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1519	Question 9 has been dealt with earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1526	I have a small but big question for the minister: ‘How will the Council of State increase domestic fisheries processing rates?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1533	Today we process 55-60 pst. by our white fish. In pelagic fisheries, the level of processing is significantly lower as a result of market demand for whole fish. In terms of the level of processing, we must also take into account that there are high rates of customs duties on further processed products for the EU, which is one of our most important export markets. When we discuss the seafood industry, I think it'll be too clever to go into just a discussion about how we're going to increase the level of processing in Norway. Nor should we discuss how, overall, we should increase value creation in Norway. We know that 95 pst. our fish are to be sold in a complex and dynamic global market. Nevertheless, it is not our job to develop detailed policies and instruments aimed at specific products, markets and technologies. Each seafood business has the most knowledge of which products and markets yield the highest returns, whether it is through blank packaging, filleting, salting or completely frozen out of the country. The role of policy makers must be to contribute to the overall framework for fisheries and aquaculture enterprises and their competitiveness. In a few weeks, the government will receive a report from a NOU committee which has reviewed the framework conditions of the seafood industry. The committee was set up by the previous government and we have chosen to continue our work with the same mandate. The mandate clearly states that the sample will propose measures for the seafood industry to contribute to the use of fisheries resources in a way that contributes to the highest possible value creation throughout the value chain. I really look forward to receiving the sample recommendations when they deliver their report on December 16. We will then send the NOU Committee's report at the hearing and return to Stortinget with a notice and a possible draft law at the end of the year 2015/2016. At that time, the government will present measures aimed at strengthening the value creation of the marine food industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1546	The question is whether Norway should be an industrial nation or only a commodity supplier. That's the background for my question here. When Marine Harvest was given the opportunity to grow big through the merger with Pan Fish and Fjord Seafood, the red-green government imposed upon the new group to have further processing in Norway, and also research and apprentices. Now the blue-blue government is proposing to remove this rule before the report from this selection has come, entirely on its own. These requirements just came to ensure that not large companies like Marine Harvest would gain control of much of the concessions, while further processing would be centralised and moved out of the country together with R & D activity in the area. What does the Minister want to achieve by removing these requirements? Is it just ideology, or does it have a foundation? In that case, is there anything other than that Marine Harvest and others should focus more on social dumping by taking raw materials out of Norway to low-cost countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1557	The main challenge for the marine food industry in Norway today is a high cost level, which has become a major cost disadvantage in a highly competitive market – where fish are to be sold. That is why the Maritime Industry Committee was set up, and that is also why we believe that we need to pursue a policy that means that industry itself must be able to assess what the markets are, what kind of products it is right to invest in, and thus be able to define its own policy. But I want to say that when I'm out now discussing what's the advantage in Norway, it's just the high quality, the fresh fish, the ability to process it. It will give industry, given that the framework conditions had been present even more than they are in Norway today. So I'm very excited about the technology that is currently developing, which means that you can reduce labour costs, that you can process more in Norway and thus create even more jobs throughout the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1564	The development of industry is that low incomes mean less and less and technology more and more. We see that all over the Western world. Germany, England, USA, Denmark osb. have taken steps towards advanced industrial production. This may be good news for the processing industry along the Norwegian coast. But the grips that the government takes here by changing the regulations, is doing so that Marine Harvest doesn't have to process this in Norway, and then removes an even incentive to make this technological investment in our country. So my simple question to the Minister – I really hope the Minister can answer that – is: Will the level of processing in Norway increase with the government's policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1571	The answer to that is that we want to do everything we can to facilitate the framework conditions so well that the industry in Norway, whether you are going to process salmon or you are going to process white fish, will be able to compete. That is why we have strengthened the Eco-Technology Scheme, and that is why we have other arrangements in the draft government budget for next year that will help to give industry opportunities to develop further. This is particularly true on the technology side, and we even see that fish are now being flagged home from China to Norway because technological advances are being made to reduce costs and that it is profitable to do so in Norway. I don't meet anyone, when I'm out, who won't be further processing in Norway. Everyone says that the best product on the market is when you can take the fish either directly from a waitress or straight from the sea and then further process it there and then. This advantage in terms of quality and proximity to resources, I feel that the industry wants to make the most of it as far as it is profitable to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1582	This question, from the representative of Sveinung Rotevatn to the Minister for Fisheries, will be raised by the representative of Gunhild Berge Stag.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1585	«60 companies in Sogn and Fjordane in the maritime food industry, travel, etc., with a total turnover of approximately 16 billion. kr, fears of job losses and value creation. They ask the government to say no to the discharge of mining waste in Fördefjorden. The company refers to the risk of the waste spreading, and is particularly concerned about the potential death rate for Norwegian fish. Is not the government concerned that the mining industry's desire to establish sea landfills in Norwegian fjords could have consequences for Norway as a maritime state?'
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1592	I can assure the representative, Gunhild Berge Stag, that this government is betting on the seafood industry. We will facilitate framework conditions that can contribute to the sustainable realisation of the potential for increased seafood production and value creation in maritime food industries. We place great emphasis on Norwegian seafood being safe and healthy. It's a good competitive element when we're going to sell Norwegian fish. Just as the government’s political platform promotes seafood production as a field of activity, so the mineral industry is also a field of activity. In the Sundvolden Declaration, the government says it will open ‘to allow the mineral industry to use marine landfills but to impose strict requirements and ensure environmental monitoring. » Nordic Mining plans to extract the titanium mineral rutile from Engebøjellet in the municipality of Naustdal in Sogn and Fjordane. The tailings from the production are planned to be deposited in a deep-water landfill in the Fördefjord. The Fisheries Directorate raised objections to the regulatory plan in 2010. On 13 March 2013, the former Ministry of the Environment asked Nordic Mining to carry out further investigations because the knowledge base on the flow pattern in Fördefjorden, the risk of particle spread, spawning areas for fish, the mapping of species and habitat types in the planned landfill area was assessed as insufficient to reach a decision. Nordic Mining has recently provided further investigations into these issues. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries and the Ministry of Climate and Environment have asked the Ministry of State to assess whether there is a basis for a new recommendation in this case. We shall have knowledge-based processes in such cases, and competent expert councils will carefully assess the matter within their responsibilities. Benefits resulting from the realisation of the mineral project must be weighed against the disadvantages resulting from the use of marine landfills, in particular against the interests of the marine food industry, the marine environment and other relevant conditions. Until a conclusion is reached, I cannot comment on specific issues that have consequences for decisions in the case. If the Engebøjellet regulatory plan is confirmed by the Planning and Building Act, the Ministry of Climate and Environment will deal with the emissions permit under the pollution law. Any emission permit will include aspects such as the use of chemicals, environmental monitoring and measurement programme requirements as evidence of compliance with conditions. In this context, food safety aspects will also be included.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1605	We are pleased that the government will have a knowledge-based management, and now we see that we have received clear advice from both the relevant Directorates, the Directorate for Fisheries and the Directorate for the Environment, which clearly warn against maritime landfills in Fördefjorden. In addition, we know that the commercial interests that we are talking about here today have to a small extent been stressed earlier in the process, for example. the issue of case-law for Norwegian salmon. Today, Norway has an international note from The Guardian, which is now wondering if Norway is going to open up to maritime landfills. The fishing team points out, among other things: that the mining company has never provided a real clean-up process, as they were supposed to do in 2010. We're talking about a huge amount of heavy metal emissions, etc. 112 kg of mercury per year for 50 years. I wonder if the Minister for Fisheries thought it was defensive. It is also the case that the knowledge bodies within maritime food security, the National Institute for Nutrition and Meal Research and the Food Authority have not been involved in this early on as hearing parties. Is it defensive, my government?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1614	I would like to refer to my first answer and say that we should have knowledge-based processes, and the competent expert councils will carefully assess the matter within their areas of responsibility. Then I ask for an understanding that I cannot now go any further in commenting on the matter, and there are two reasons for that. Firstly, the Fisheries Directorate’s objection to the Engebøjellet regulatory plan for treatment in the Ministry of Local Affairs and Modernisation and the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries and the Ministry of Climate and Environment have been asked to assess the matter. I cannot comment on a matter that is being dealt with. Secondly, the outcome of the case will have consequences for Nordic Mining, and the case is also market-sensitive.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1623	This has been a very difficult case for a very large number of local politicians, where the number of workplaces in the mining industry is opposed to both the environment and existing industries in the Fördefjord. The situation has been particularly strained by the fact that the mining company has said that there is no alternative to sea landfill. Recently, the company has signaled that there is still a plan B. Nobody knows what that plan means, but shouldn't we expect it to be played with open cards at a long earlier time, and that politicians get a correct picture of what the option is, before a decision is made?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1630	I would like to show that I cannot go into any further assessments in the matter, but it is a fact that the matter has a long history. It is one thing that the present government has inherited from the previous government. We have now, as I said, put forward a knowledge-based process in which individual expert councils will make their assessments, and then we will finally come to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1639	‘The fisheries policy is closely linked to coastal settlement, and the law of participants states that the fleet should be owned by active fishermen. Sea resources shall benefit local communities along the coast. But the number of boats and active fishermen goes down, and along the coast there is talk of quota barons and more power on ever fewer hands. Eternal quotas and more structuring seem to be the answer to the government. Does the Council share the view of the Workers' Party that a fishing area fleet is decisive for construction and value creation in the north?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1646	If fishing rage fleets, the government in the Sundvollen statement has said that we want to open up the decoration of the participant law, especially in terms of housing requirements in connection with inheritance or generation change. At the same time, it is a fact that under previous governments two exemptions have been granted to industrial companies to own fleets. In a few weeks, the government will receive the report from the NOU that has reviewed the framework conditions of the seafood industry. The committee was set up during the previous government, and the work continued during the current government. On behalf of the sample, the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries has ordered four research reports. Those of the reports that come up with the question are making a relatively tough judgment over today's regulatory regime. It is said that the current way of regulating industry places significant obstacles to the competitiveness of industry and the ability to adapt to international framework conditions. At the same time, researchers are also aware that total deregulation of the fishing industry will have major employment and district policy implications. The Maritime Industry Committee will make its recommendations on 16 December, and we do not know what conclusions they are going to reach. The report will then be sent to the hearing and, I hope, will provide the basis for a broad debate on the future of the fisheries industry. Then we aim for a announcement to Stortinget at the end of 2015/2016, which will form both the NOU and the government's political platform. I have already been clear that we must now be willing to look with new eyes at the political grip on industry and in order to give the industry itself the opportunity to find the best solutions in the future. The Sundvolen platform has a number of points that it is now working on, and that we will come back to, for example. in the follow-up to the report of the Tveterås Committee. A good industrial policy is also a good and forward-looking district policy. The most important thing we can do is create good framework conditions that can contribute to increased profitability in all parts of the industry. To the representative Heggø's question, first of all, I would like to say that it is a profitable industry that is crucial for housing and value creation in the north. We must not forget that. I can, or will, of course not foreshadow what will be the selection's recommendations, or what will be proposed in the Stortinget message about approx. one year. My appeal to everyone who is concerned with increased value creation in the fishing industry is that we must not close doors now. On the contrary, we must welcome an informed debate on what will be a sensible policy for the future of one of our most important coastal and rural industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1667	The right to retain nationality requirements and an active fishing area fleet, the so-called activity requirement, has been retained by Norway because the law existed before the conclusion of the EEA Agreement. It is of course disputed in the EU that the EEA Agreement is in fact as asymmetric as it is in the case of the purchase and sale of fishing boat crews, and changes, even minor changes, can continue to put all the laws into play, even if the government wants to retain parts of this law. Is the Council of State agreed that the government creates great uncertainty in view of future Norwegian ownership in order to soften the laws, which were the words used by the minister – or in my words: deal with the participation laws?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1672	We were very open before the elections, both parties, that it was thought that the Norwegian fisheries industry law must also be able to stay behind when the industry has major challenges, and when there is a need to see the whole value chain in the context. The government statement is clear that we should work for increased competitiveness and modernise the Fish Sales Act and the participant law, and we have been open about it from the very beginning. But it's always so that there's a difference between shaving and cutting off the chin. I can reassure the representative Heggø that we are not going to present proposals that are not good and thorough, and that will not ensure in the future that we from the Norwegian team will be able to manage and have framework conditions around our most important industry, which means that we are going to achieve what we have said, which is the overall one, namely to increase the value creation and trigger an even greater potential of Norwegian seafood.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1677	As I said, even minor changes can lead to the whole of the law falling, even if that's not what is meant by the government saying. I choose to interpret the answer to the council very positively, because if she now answers that if the consequences are what I'm saying here, that we actually saw in the game both Norwegian ownership and the activity requirement, this with having a fishing grounds fleet, she will turn all the stones and get this properly consistent before it is proposed at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1682	This is such an important industry, for the country, for the coast, for many communities along the coast, for all those who have their job there today, and for all those who are now training and going to have a job there in the future, that we are going to do a good and thorough job – both in the wake of the recommendation of the Tveterås Committee, and what had to come into play in the consultation round that is to go beyond spring. We will work well and thoroughly through this before we present a big message next autumn. Then we also invite Stortinget to create a majority around a policy that, hopefully, is so excited that it will give this industry confidence in how it will develop positively in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1718	Questions 13, 15, 16 and 17 are deferred. Question 18 was answered in response to question 5, and questions 19, 20 and 21 were answered before question 1. Then there are no more questions in the ordinary Questionnaire, and Case No. 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-19.ana.ud1872e1733	There is no record. As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
