ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e60	Honourable co-representatives! Former Major Brita Borge is dead, 82 years old. Brita Constance Borge was born on 20 October 1931 in Vasa, Finland. After her degree and teaching practices, she was in 1956 blot.kand. in Helsinki. Gradually, she moved to Osterøy in Hordaland and worked at the family business Borge Kromlärfabrik, first as a production planner, then as an export manager. Citizens had a number of roles in the footwear and leather industry, both nationally and internationally, including: Chairmanship of Osterøy Industrial Teams, the Swedish Council of Skoma and the Nordic Council of Skoma. In addition, she was a member of the Norwegian Technical-Natural Research Council and the Research Committee of the Association of Industry. Britain Borge was active in the Right both locally and at the county level. At the 1981 Grand Prix, she became the first alternate for Hordaland Right. She became a permanent representative in 1981, when Arne Skauge was first Minister of Trade in the Willoch Government and then Secretary of State at the Prime Minister's office. In 1985, Brita Borge was elected permanent representative. At Stortinget, she was a member of several committees. During the period 1981-1985, she served on the Judicial Committee, the Social Committee and the Consumer and Administrative Committee, while in her second term she was a member of the Judicial Committee and an alternate member of the Control Committee. During this period she was also a meeting alternate member of the delegation to the Nordic Council. After Brita Borge left the Storting in 1989, she continued to work in the family business and in the tannery industry. She also continued her broad commitment to society, among others. she was engaged in the District Development Fund Board of Hordaland and the State Nutrition and District Development Fund of Hordaland. In addition, Borge was a member of the Hygea and Vital Insurance Association and had a position of trust in Bergen and Hordaland Senior Right and in the European Movement in Hordaland. Brita Borge was a fireman. When she went in for one thing, it was with great energy and intensity. She left nothing to chance and did not submit until she had come as far as at all possible to achieve her goals. These qualities also marked her work in the Storting, combined with great generosity and a contagious mood. We remember Brita Borge for her work in the Storting and brighten the peace of her memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e79	The representatives of Audun Lysbakken and Marianne Marthinsen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: by the Central Party Group on the sick leave of the representative of the Liv Signe Navarsete from 11 February onwards and until further notice from representatives Åse Michaelsen and Torstein Tvedt Solberg on leave on 12 and 13 February, both to attend the Winter Session of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in Vienna On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The cases are dealt with immediately and are granted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the West Agder County: Kjell Ivar LarsenFor the Rogaland County: Øystein Langholm HansenFor Sogn and Fjordane County: Jenny Følling
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e127	Jenny Følling is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e139	I would like to thank you for this opportunity to brief the European Parliament on developments in Syria and South Sudan: two conflicts, humanitarian crises and political processes that are crucial to peace and security in the Middle East and the Horn of Africa. In Syria, Norway is the sixth largest humanitarian donor. Norway, together with Denmark, is helping to transport chemical weapons out of Syria to prevent the use of weapons against the civilian population again or to spread to new groups. In South Sudan, Norway is heavily involved, both humanitarianly and politically. Three years ago, many continued to hope that Syria’s leader could join a reform process. Today, Syria is ruled by a war that has created one of the greatest humanitarian crises of our time. The conflict threatens both regional stability and international peace and security. Less than three years ago, South Sudan was struck by optimism after winning its independence. In the last few weeks, this country has also been ruled by acts of war that divide the population along ethnic dividing lines. Victims of civil, human suffering and internally displaced persons make reconciliation difficult. Major refugee flows, proliferation of weapons and the potential for mobilising new armed groups threaten to destabilise neighbouring countries. All of this also affects Norway — which provides development aid and humanitarian aid, as a catalyst for peace processes and participants in peace operations, and as a central contributor to the exodus of weapons of mass destruction. But equally important: this also has a direct impact on Norwegian national interests by further destabilising the Middle East and the Horn of Africa, emerging from extremism, and testing the credibility of the international system in crisis management and resolution. In March 2011, people took to the streets of Syria. Inspired by the Arab Spring, democratic reforms and freedom of expression were required to achieve real political influence. The demonstrators were shot down. The regime rejected the demands of the people. The regime had no answers other than violence. Since then, it has only become worse: in less than three years, an estimated 130 000 people have been killed. Three years ago, Syria was a safe haven for refugees. Now Syria itself has triggered one of the greatest refugee disasters since World War II. Three years ago, Syria was an intermediate country. Now the country's gross domestic product is halved. It is a heavy responsibility on the parties, on regional actors and on the international community to stop the war. Only a political solution can put an end to the enormous suffering and destruction of people and countries: 9.3 million acids need humanitarian aid. Half of these are children. 6.5 million people are fleeing their own country. Nearly 2.5 million people are registered as refugees in neighbouring countries, accounting for half of Norway’s population. The international community must contribute much more. The United Nations has reported a need of 39 billion. kr. The humanitarian donor country conference in Kuwait took place on 15 January. One-third – $14.5 billion. kr. The image of the warfare on the ground is inconclusive. The Syrian regime, supported by the Hezbollah militia from Lebanon, controls central parts of the country from Damascus to the Mediterranean coast. In the north and east, several armed opposition groups dominate. They switch between cooperation and inter-combat. These are Islamic groupings, and they are extreme groups associated with al Qaida, they are outbreakers from the government army and Kurdish groups. Several actors are supported by countries and forces fighting for strategic influence. Their struggle for influence and power in the regions is fought on Syrian territory. It makes the situation very complicated. In the middle of the shot line is the civilian population. The war in Syria is being waged with brutality and without respect for humanitarian law and principles. We've seen the pictures of tortured and crippled prisoners in Syrian prisons, and they've shocked us all deeply. The regime consistently prevents the delivery of medical devices in rebel controlled areas. Both parties to the conflict carry out targeted attacks on humanitarian workers, hospitals and other civil infrastructure. In Damascus and the city of Homs, hunger and denial of medical help seem to be systematically used against hundreds of thousands of civilians. This may constitute a war crime and other serious international crimes. Those guilty of such crimes must be held responsible. At the end of last week, the UN announced that the parties agreed on a three-day truce, now extended, to allow the evacuation of women, children and elderly men from the old town of Homs, and to release humanitarian aid. Under very difficult conditions, the UN and Syrian Red Crescent managed to evacuate hundreds of people during the weekend and bring some relief to those who are left. The conditions we witnessed this weekend – a breach of truce, attacks on auxiliary workers and the siege of the old town of Homs – are unacceptable. The release of emergency aid to Homs only means fulfilling the obligations of any warring party in armed conflict. Nevertheless, the breaks in the fighting actions to admit humanitarian aid are important confidence-building measures that need to be repeated in Homs and other parts of the country. It is, however, a long way to go until the parties have given the civilian population the protection and the demands they have under international humanitarian law. We still see daily attacks targeting the civilian population, and in large areas of Syria, the affected do not have access to the necessary humanitarian aid. At the same time, it must be emphasised that refusing emergency aid to the civilian population in opposition-controlled areas such as Homs has been a conscious strategy by the authorities. All parties to the conflict are obliged to respect international humanitarian law and to protect humanitarian actors. The Parties must allow the provision of humanitarian assistance to all those in need, in all parts of the country, on a regular basis. Last October, we received an opinion from the Presidency of the UN Security Council on humanitarian access. The President's opinion has led to some bureaucratic relief from the regime, but has not produced concrete results on the ground. The Permanent Members of the Security Council must know their responsibilities and agree on a binding resolution. In talks with Minister of Foreign Affairs Lavrov, I have particularly encouraged Russia to contribute to this, and to use its influence in Damascus to ensure positive development. We have also expressed support for the work of the United Kingdom as well as Luxembourg and Australia, which elected members of the Security Council, on the humanitarian track. We need a binding Security Council resolution that establishes the right of access to all humanitarian aid that is needed now. On January 22nd this year, the parties met for the first time since the beginning of the war. This happened in Montreux, Switzerland, as part of the so-called Geneva II process. Since then, the parties have completed the first round of discussions behind closed doors under the auspices of the United Nations. Yesterday the second round of negotiations started. From the Norwegian side, we have supported the work of Special Representative Brahimi in political and economic terms. The parties have taken a first step. Now it is essential to commit them to a binding peace process. It is also important to involve several parts of the opposition, in particular the one in Syria, in the further process. We don't have to be naive. The parties are very far apart. There is a real danger that the civil war will be long lasting. The regime has rejected all demands for President Bashar al-Assad to leave. For the opposition, it is unmistakable that he can have a role in future Syria. Over time, it will also be important to involve regional actors in the search for a policy solution. In Montreux, on behalf of the government, I called for the full implementation of the Geneva communiqué. It implies that the parties must agree on a transitional regime, where Assad can no longer play a role. It must be empowered to prepare the establishment of democratic institutions and free elections. I underlined the importance of preserving the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Syria, and stressed the need to defend the rights of all Syrian citizens. It includes women, minorities and religious communities. Nor can we overlook the importance of extremists and foreign warriors. Their case does not benefit the Syrian people and is contrary to the objective of tolerance and coexistence. Furthermore, I urge the parties to immediately enter into a permanent ceasefire, stop attacking non-military targets and release prisoners who are held without legal basis. Experiences from past conflicts have taught us that one should maintain and reform functioning state institutions rather than dissolve them. But President Bashar al-Assad has lost his legitimacy. Women and civil society must have a real opportunity to influence the negotiations. It will give the whole process greater legitimacy and wider anchoring. Norway is in dialogue with Syrian women to see how we can facilitate the hearing of their demands and expectations. The war in Syria is causing unrest throughout the region. Especially in Lebanon and Iraq, where we see instability and conflict, car bombs and violence. Other countries in the region, such as Jordan and Turkey, are also affected. The flow of refugees out of Syria has put a heavy burden on neighbouring countries. According to the World Bank, uncertainty has reduced Lebanon’s economic growth by almost 3 pst. annual. The withdrawal of Syrian refugees in Jordan costs the country $9 billion. kr. In 2014, Norway has already granted 460 million. to the victims of the conflict in Syria. About half of this contribution will go to humanitarian action within Syria. The other half will go to Syrian refugees in neighbouring countries. Lebanon is a high priority because there we find many of the same lines of conflict that characterize Syria. Every fourth inhabitant of Lebanon is now acid. Norway will have contributed 1.3 billion. humanitarian aid since the conflict started in the spring of 2011. And as I said initially, we're now the sixth largest giver in the area. Norway will continue to step up assistance to Jordan, Lebanon and Syria in the future. Norway also offers to receive 1000 particularly vulnerable Syrian refugees in the current year through an extension of the quota for transfer refugees. In 2014, Norway will receive more transfer refugees than Germany, Finland and Denmark measured against the population. UNSC Resolution 2118 obliges Syria to destroy its chemical weapons programme by the end of June of this year. The UN and the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, OPCW, are in charge and coordinate this work. Resolution 2118 is also important to facilitate a process aimed at a political solution to the conflict. A central part of the task of destroying Syria's chemical weapons program is to transport chemical fighting agents and other toxic chemical substances out of Syria. Norway and Denmark have made the necessary maritime resources available to the UN and the OPCW. Norway contributes with the frigate KNM ‘Helge Ingstad’, a civil cargo ship and other minor military capacities. Work is in progress on transporting the weapons out of Syria. The maritime force has so far made three port calls to Latakia, the last as late as yesterday. So far, 31 of 260 containers have been extracted. The delays that have occurred are primarily due to the security situation within Syria and some logistical challenges associated with the transport of containers by land. From the Norwegian side, we have highlighted the importance of keeping the timetable set by the UN and the OPCW. We experience that, after dealing with the issue in the Security Council last week, there is a broad consensus on this. It has been important for the government to be flexible in carrying out this task. Chemical weapons shall be removed and destroyed. At the same time, the government will take a closer look at the consequences of any further delays. Less than three years ago, the streets of Juba, South Sudan, were filled with joy. The youngest state in the world – South Sudan – was born. The 2005 peace agreement had come forward. For over 30 years, Norway has had close ties to South Sudan. Thanks to the efforts of former governments, and not least through Church Emergency Aid and Norwegian Public Aid, Norway has a special position in South Sudan. We and the rest of the international community had great expectations of the new state and set up with political support and development aid. South Sudan was a very unfinished and vulnerable country from the first day – the size of France and very limited in terms of roads, hospitals and schools. The challenges facing the Juba government were formidable. Corruption was and is still a major problem. Much was achieved in the first few years. Most importantly, peace was in a country where war had lasted more than three decades. Today, the joy and optimism of 2011 are gone. Cities and villages are burned down. Thousands are killed and wounded, according to the UN. Earths have been wrecked. Stores of food and medicine are looted. Everything that was accomplished is at stake. The work of building a global nation must start again. Both parties to the conflict are responsible for serious violations and violations of humanitarian law. The crisis that broke out in mid-December has its roots far back in time. They emerge from political contradictions within the Sudan People’s Liberation Movement, SPLM, and are reinforced by ethnic tensions in the Government Army, SPLA. It's a power struggle for control of the party, the army, the state and the oil economy. There has been a broad political outreach of Norwegian involvement to try to ensure the development of the vulnerable and newly established country. Norway, through cooperation with the United Kingdom and the United States of America in the so-called troika and with other international partners, has engaged in a dialogue with the government and the SPLM. We have been involved in delivering clear and often critical messages about political and economic development. We've followed what happened in the government party SPLM, and we saw the voltage rise. Nevertheless, few fully predicted the scale and strength of the crisis that hit in December. In this fight, it is also mobilized along ethnic dividing lines. It makes the conflict more brutal and has both reopened old and created new wounds that will take time to grow. But above all, this is a political conflict that needs to be resolved politically. The regional cooperation organisation Intergovernmental Authority on Development, IGAD, with back cover from the African Union, AU, quickly got the parties to the negotiating table and a truce agreement. At the same time, Africa’s own peacemaking process was actively supported by that troika of which Norway is part. The state of arms shows the importance of this cooperation. We will also participate actively in the follow-up work of the agreement. I have pointed out to President Salva Kiir that the parties must now take full responsibility, respect the agreement and release humanitarian aid unhindered until the civilian population. The international community must collectively put pressure on the parties to comply with the Armistice Agreement. The humanitarian situation in South Sudan is very serious. I myself confirmed this when I visited South Sudan two weeks ago. A few weeks of conflict has driven nearly one million people away, according to the United Nations. Of these, more than 130 000 have fled to neighbouring countries. Before the crisis broke out, a million South Sudaneses needed humanitarian aid, according to the UN. This figure has now increased to 3.7 million and is expected to rise further. The UN humanitarian organisations, together with the International Red Cross and non-governmental organisations, have been present and provided effective protection and relief to the civilian population. After the ceasefire, the parties must initiate an inclusive political process. In this process, civil society must have a central role, in particular the church network and women's groups. In South Sudan, as in Syria, it is essential that women be involved in the decision-making and shaping of the country's future in line with UNSCR 1325 on women, peace and security. Most displaced persons and refugees in South Sudan are women and children. Sexualized violence is increasing. This has major humanitarian and security implications that weaken the opportunities for peace, stability and reconciliation. It is also necessary to address the underlying causes of the conflict. The victims of human rights violations and other abuses must be followed up. The culprits must be held responsible. This is difficult and will take time. But it is absolutely necessary for South Sudan to become a viable state. Norway was at the heart of the work leading to the Peace Agreement between North and South Sudan in 2005 and the creation of the independent South Sudan in 2011. The Norwegian involvement continues, and we have a long-term perspective. Ever since the outbreak of this last crisis, I have had close contact with my colleagues in the troika in London and Washington. We have shared information and developed common positions. I have also been in constant contact with foreign ministers and heads of state in Ethiopia, Kenya and Uganda. I have spoken directly to the parties on both sides of the conflict in South Sudan, President Salva Kiir and Riek Machar. Norway participates with military personnel, police and other civil personnel in the UNMISS operation, led by former development minister Hilde Frafjord Johnson. On 24 December 2013, the UN Security Council decided to strengthen the UNMISS in order to address the concerns. Norway contributes to facilitating the strengthening of UNMISS by making air transport aid available to the United Nations. The contribution has so far been to fly material into the UN camps where civilians have sought refuge, and was carried out in cooperation with Sweden, the United Kingdom and Finland. UNMISS has done a good job in very demanding circumstances. In my talks in Juba two weeks ago, I underlined the importance of the authorities in South Sudan having to play with UNMISS. It is unacceptable that the authorities have tried to prevent the work of the UN operation. Together with other development partners, we are now providing increased humanitarian and emergency aid. However, we see that the UN has major problems in getting adequate funding from its appeal. This worries me. So far, Norway has granted 100 million. kr at the top of our long-term assistance. This is important in order to ensure protection and assistance to a large number of civilians both inside and outside the camp, among them many women, children and the elderly. We are now reviewing the arrangement of development cooperation with South Sudan. It is important to strike a good balance between short-term humanitarian aid and long-term efforts to stabilise and rebuild the country. Long-term assistance is necessary to avoid further deterioration of the young country. The crisis in South Sudan is a tragedy for a new and vulnerable country. Here – as in Syria – development is being put back a long way. We committed ourselves to the conflict in Sudan in order to end a civil war and the humanitarian suffering to which the civilian population was subjected. Today's picture of conflict is not the same, but the consequences for ordinary people are the same. South Sudan has resources. If there is political will, there is also a political solution to the conflict. We shall contribute to this from the Norwegian side. The great human suffering in Syria and South Sudan concerns us as fellow human beings. We have a moral obligation to care. Our humanitarian commitment is linked to our security interests. Increased unrest in the Middle East and the Horn of Africa also affect our national security. Therefore, we need to engage to find lasting and stable solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e298	The President will now propose, under Article 45 of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting, that a comment round be opened limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group and possibly a final statement from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e303	I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has given such a thorough account of a very demanding humanitarian situation as a result of the civil war in Syria and the serious conflict and political crisis in South Sudan. I agree with the foreign minister's analyses and the positions the government has taken in these conflicts. I would therefore like to focus in my article specifically on what we can do further from the Norwegian side. When the parties to the Syrian conflict met in Montreux, the Foreign Minister took part with very good input from the Norwegian side. It is positive that the government announced before Christmas that they have contributed to assist the OPCW in the destruction of Syria’s chemical weapons and that Norway is contributing with the frigate KNM “Helge Ingstad”. The question is how many parts of the chemical weapons are now out there. What will the Foreign Minister do if we do not get the weapons transported out in line with the Security Council's decision? I visited refugee camps in Jordan just before Christmas and saw the huge effort being made by the Refugee Aid and other humanitarian organizations towards the Syrian refugees. It is particularly important that young women be protected, that education and security be provided, because there are very many women in vulnerable situations in these refugee camps. Early marriage becomes a solution for some families to protect these girls. In my opinion, therefore, our assistance must concentrate on providing a good safety offer to these girls and offering them education. Health services and access to prevention are particularly necessary for all women. It is also important to ensure an offer to those who are injured and maimed as a result of the acts of war. In Jordan, there is a large refugee camp ready to receive many refugees, and funds have been provided by both private and state donors. There are thousands of refugees on the Syrian border, and my question is what the Minister of Foreign Affairs can do to ensure that more people get help on the Jordanian side. I would also like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for his commitment to South Sudan. There is no solution other than a political solution in this country. Hilde Frafjord Johnson knows the situation in the country very well, and I want to underline the importance of the work she is doing for UNMISS. Just as in South Africa, Norwegian labour movement and church organisations have a long commitment to South Sudan. The Women's Network of the Labour Party has been training women elected in South Sudan in cooperation with Norwegian Folkehelp for several years. Norwegian People's Aid and the Church's Emergency Aid have a long engagement in this country. Therefore, many in Norway also know the SPLM very well. The political crisis started in the SPLM. It also means that reforms in the SPLM are important for a sustainable solution. If political parties, voluntary and church organisations can contribute, I believe that this will be important in this peace process, and would like to hear the Foreign Minister's assessments of this. When the ISAF is about to come down, I think it is very important that we have a real debate on how the Norwegian defence can contribute to several international operations. It is important for the Workers' Party to give priority to participation in UN operations. That is an important objective. While NATO's share in UN operations was 50 pst. Of the soldiers in the 1990s, there's only 2 pst. by the soldiers today coming from NATO country. In my opinion, increased participation from NATO countries will strengthen the UN. A large part of the defence has the relevant capacity to contribute. Increased participation will require funding in addition to the long-term plan. I would like to hear the Foreign Minister's assessments of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e320	I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a thorough presentation showing how dramatic developments in Syria and South Sudan are, and how events in a short time affect politics and fundamentally change societies. A few years ago, Syria was one of the more stable countries in a turbulent region. The country that more people in the area looked up to, and in which people sought refuge, has now been hit by a civil war out of control. Also South Sudan has gone from progress and optimism to failure in a short time. There are people desperately fleeing from their homes. The two conflicts have major humanitarian consequences and consequences far beyond borders. Therefore, it is reassuring to hear the foreign minister’s assurances that Norway remains a stable and credible contributor. The importance of immediate humanitarian assistance through emergency aid and political efforts to facilitate dialogue between the parties is more important than ever, for the people of Syria and South Sudan have no time to lose. The situation in Syria has been gradually deteriorating over three years now, and is described as the worst humanitarian disaster in modern times. It's hard to know how many lives have been lost. Estimates say about 130,000 people have been killed since March 2011. World society really got its eyes up on the atrocities of late summer last year. The brutality also targets children. The TV images from the chemical attacks on its own population made a strong impression on people and governments around the world. Unfortunately, it took time, but fortunately, through good diplomatic work, one managed to reach an agreement on a solution to the destruction of the chemical weapons. The work is in progress, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs explained, and let us hope that the timetable is now in place. The situation in Syria is now in a critical phase. The Geneva II peace talks that are underway in Montreux are challenging, they will take time and will require creative diplomacy. The opposition and the various elements contribute to maintaining the spiral of violence. The TV images we saw yesterday from the evacuation of a besieged population in Homs during a shrapnel three-day truce made a strong impression. The Foreign Minister challenged the Security Council and pointed out and described war crimes. The establishment of an emergency emergency service is just a small step in the right direction. The situation is not acceptable until a ceasefire is established and the civilian population has access to the necessary humanitarian assistance. The situation in Syria also has consequences for the region. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, neighbouring countries are overburdened. That's why I'm glad the government has doubled the number of Syrian transfer refugees from 500 to 1,000 people, in addition to about 230 million. D moving to Syrian refugees in neighbouring countries. This is in addition to the corresponding amounts for the victims inside Syria. Then there's the conflict in South Sudan. It is less accessible, less visible in the media, but has a large humanitarian scale and direct impact on the stability of the area. Since the violence broke out in December, that is, two months ago, it is believed that 10,000 people have lost their lives. The Minister of Foreign Affairs said that one million people are fleeing. There are numbers that are shocking. Norway has played an important role in the country for a number of years. Norway’s active participation in the peace process together with the United States and the United Kingdom and the dialogue with President Salva Kiir and Vice-President Riek Machar can prove to be a good investment when and if the country returns on the right course. I will give tribute to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a continuing commitment to reconciliation in the country by participating in the channels available, including the meeting with the African Union next week. South Sudan is a rich country in natural resources and in other ways, but has a population of about 80pst. are illiterate and where corruption prevents growth and development. That is why, in addition to emergency aid, we must be able to turn our efforts against education, infrastructure and the establishment of a functioning civil society that can demand the leaders of the country. I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is focusing on these long-term aspects. When countries do not affirm democratic principles, but are led by corruption and lawlessness, conflicts arise. And when the conflicts instead of being tried to resolve are reinforced by different groups being set up against each other, the armed conflict gets easily fixed. The result is that very many countries are disintegrating. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I would like to stress the importance of the link between foreign and security policies on the one hand and development policies on the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e341	I would like to begin by thanking the Foreign Minister for a good and thorough account of the situation in Syria and Norway's involvement in South Sudan. To the autumn we celebrate that it is 25 years since the fall of the Berlin Wall. That event, and the events that are closely interwoven with the fall of the Berlin Wall, showed us what enormous forces small sparks can ignite, and how quickly they can spread to a fire. Today, the fall of the Berlin Wall stands out as one of the most important and finest events in modern times in Europe, even though there were voices here on the mountain that were critical, such as the New Time SV newspaper. The fall of the Berlin Wall was an event that changed the map and nourished the emergence of democracy, human rights and opportunities for people who had experienced what socialism in its most ugly form meant. History has shown us that democratic and justified popular uprisings can end up with something that brings about increased democracy, more pluralism, openness and the rule of law. We'll celebrate in a few months. But history has also shown us that it's not necessarily automatic in that it gets like this. Revolution can be kicked in many ways, and sometimes it is so that there are the little things in everyday life that make up the sparks that ignite it all. It's now more than three years since the sparks of what was to become known as the Arab Spring became lit. It all started with a vegetable dealer who had just got more than enough. On 17 December 2010, Mohamed Bouazizi was confiscated by a politician in the small town of Sidi Bouzid, Tunisia. After Bouazizi tried to pay the politician 10 dinars to get his wagon back and was denied this by the politician, who replied to spit on and beat Bouazizi, he chose to fire himself. So this is what ignited the Arab Spring. The sparks that became a political fire spread to Algeria, Yemen, Jordan, Libya, Syria, Oman, Bahrain and Egypt. The Arab Spring brought with it a change of role. Despots who had run and chased their people for years were now forced to flee and kneel in furious crowds. In Syria, the Baath Party took power in 1963, and Bashar al-Assad has been president of the country since 2000. On 26 January 2011, Hasan Ali Akleh from Al-Hasakah followed the vegetable dealer from Tunisia’s example and heroed gasoline over him and set on in protest against the country’s brutal regime. After this, the sparks continued to spread in Syria, and today the status is that more than 130,000 people are believed to have been killed, more than 9.3 million people are made dependent on humanitarian aid, more than 6.5 million people are fleeing their own country and more than 2.5 million people have fled the country. To put it all in perspective: in the course of two and a half years, the number of people killed in Syria as a result of the conflict in Syria is the number of people killed in Iraq in ten years after the US invasion. The so-called red line has been placed after the chemical weapon was put into service. What we're witnessing in Syria is nothing less than one of the greatest humanitarian disasters we've seen in recent times. To those who ask whether it is in Norway’s national interest to care about what is happening in Syria, I will reply: The discussion of national interests has passed a long time ago. Humanitarian disasters require immediate action. While we're discussing Syria, the fighting is going on. Although Norway is a long way from Syria, we're not going to deal with what's going on there. Human suffering concerns us, killing civilians concerns us, women and children in exile concern us. The fact that you do not have to decide, or side of, what is going on is not a neutral position. The situation in Syria requires answers from the international community. That is why, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs points out, there is an inconspicuous situation on the ground in Syria. The opposition to the Assad regime is not a uniform group. It's not just a collection of democratically elected people who are rebelling against an authoritarian regime like the Assad regime is. The boots trotting on the ground in Syria are also composed and supported by groupings and countries outside Syria. As players in the Syrian conflict, we find Hezbollah, Al Qaeda and Iran – not the best child of Mother, some of them. We've got Syria close to us not only through pictures of dead children on the TV screen or increased the number of refugees knocking on the door, but also by the fact that a few of our own inhabitants are travelling down and working for battle in Syria. We don't know what that means yet, but we can assume that we can get some ticking bombs in return in a while. The UN does not have a good historical track record in dealing with conflicts that turn into humanitarian disasters. It's enough to mention Rwanda or the Balkans, where the UN flew around like headless chickens. As far as Syria is concerned, the United Nations has reached an agreement on the transport of chemical weapons. It was an important breakthrough, even though it is now being trained by the Assad regime. We're going to keep going in that track. In addition, I will conclude by calling on the Norwegian Government to put further pressure on Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e367	The very conflicts and the cruel humanitarian disasters we are now seeing in Syria and South Sudan are heartbreaking. The civil war in Syria is the greatest humanitarian disaster of our time. The crisis in South Sudan shows how Africa's newest state has such a weak political system that almost everything can collapse in chaos in a short time. In both these areas of crisis, the need for international assistance is great, and the need for political solution is decisive, but the conditions for reaching with help and getting to a political solution are demanding. I want to start by thanking Minister of Foreign Affairs Burnde for a very thorough and good arrangement, an arrangement that shows us complicated conflicts with great human suffering. There should be broad political support for the main lines drawn up by the Foreign Minister for Norway's humanitarian aid, and for the ongoing work on armaments and a political dialogue that can lead to peace. Both these disaster areas need international support for political and diplomatic efforts in order to achieve a peaceful solution that could put an end to weapons use and space for reconstruction and development. But we know that the road there is crooked, he's demanding, and he's uncertain. But it would be a failure sin if we didn't do everything we can. The civil war in Syria is the greatest humanitarian disaster of our time. More than 100,000 people have died after two years of armed conflict, and the conflict has led to millions of refugees and internally displaced persons. We see that the civilian population's suffering is enormous. Food shortages have led to many starvation, winter colds breaking down while power supplies are collapsing, health care is collapsing, in medical supplies – a situation we can hardly imagine. Ethnic and religious minorities are strongly exposed to this conflict, and it is not least the Christian minority in Syria, which has fallen from 20 p.m. in a barely any century. to 10 pst. of the population. The Christians, like the Syrians most, are victims of the general warfare, but in addition they are subjected to assault by armed Islamists who have come from other countries to participate in the war, and it is no wonder that many refugees from the country. Unfortunately, the prospects for a military solution seem to be far away, but without a political solution, the war and the human suffering will only continue. For this reason, from the Christian People's Party's side, we support all the good attempts at a political solution, and of course we support Norway's contribution to transporting chemical weapons from Syria. In our view, Norway must be at the forefront of this humanitarian aid effort. The need is enormous, and when millions are on the run, it's an incredible tragedy, and we're doing what we can to help. The situation is also tragic in South Sudan. The situation is such that they have fought for 22 years, and when they finally got nationally self-reliant three years ago, the country is again on the brink of a new war. As the United Nations representative Hilde Frafjord Johnson recently expressed it: what has been done by nation-building, rushing together like a card house. This is a serious setback, both for the humanitarian situation and for national construction. Many lir, women and children – in unfathomed grief and in pain. Here, as politicians, we must show the same willingness to surface and to endure, just like our sportsmen in the Olympic winter games. It's only through systematic and persistent efforts that we can close. It applies both in the sports arena, in humanitarian aid and in political peacemaking.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e386	Understanding the real and underlying causes of conflict in other countries, cultures and other continents is very difficult. Therefore, you have to approach humility, regardless of conflict, and try to understand what is perceived as the reality of the different parties. We know that reality is subjective. But some things stand completely firm, no matter what the reason, and those are the fundamental human rights. There you have to be quite clear, absolutely clear, no matter what reality people perceive they are in, and there was the Foreign Minister quite clearly in his presentation. The right to food, the right to life, fundamental respect for human dignity – there we have no compromises to go on. Both in Syria and in South Sudan, the rights are broken every day, so our guide must be to contribute to the greatest possible humanity in the short and long term. I want to go to South Sudan first. I met a central scientist in Washington last week who said something that I bit me very noticed in: South Sudan is an army with a country, not a country with an army. It says something about that country. It is a young country with few structures. It's ethnic conflicts, management conflicts, which also have an ethnic dimension, so it's very, very demanding. So I think it's important for us who are concerned with assistance and building structures, that at the end – structures or not structures – it's about responsibility for those who are in charge. We have to be very clear to those who are in charge, as I see it, that it is responsible, no matter how young the state is. Point 1, which is important for the Central Party, is that as a country, we actively use our diplomacy, with the central role that we have. Because of history, we have a special responsibility, but also an opportunity to play a role through active diplomacy. Point 2 is to stand by the long-term assistance. We need to develop it further and, if necessary, strengthen it. We've been a leading country in South Sudan, and it's important that we stand by it, and that we stand by it over time. Then to Syria. Syria is a huge disaster in all its horror. In the beginning, we chose to call it the 'Arab Spring' – I don't know what we're going to call it anymore, but at least we've seen how it's spread from country to country, and the fear that it's going to be a more and more military conflict has unfortunately become more and more true. And in Syria we have seen it, in all its horror. What is now at risk is that it can spread further, to neighbouring countries. As Børge Burnde correctly said, last week I was informed that there were half a million Syrian refugees in Lebanon, a country of the size of ours. Remember, in our debate there was a debate in which we said that we should receive 1000 more quota refugees; we had the capacity to do so. Then a country like Lebanon has received half a million refugees from its neighbouring country. It's huge. That is why it is so important that we in Norway, with our role, contribute heavily through the UN over time, that there are international structures that can go in when that kind of disaster occurs, and that as a national assembly we are willing to strengthen the institutions that the United Nations carries. Of course, it is also important that we strengthen the Red Cross, the Church's Emergency Aid, Norwegian National Aid and the other organizations, but it is important that we have an international aid device, with all its inadequacy, because alternatives do not exist, so we have to strengthen it, and we have to stand by it. As far as Syria is concerned, we need to be willing to use large resources both directly to Syria and in neighbouring countries to contribute to more humanity and more stability. In Syria, we don't have any major powers, but we can at least be clear about the basics, the human rights. And there needs to be clear voices for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e405	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a very thorough and good presentation. He points out the humanitarian disaster that is special in Syria and that is also in South Sudan. This deeply affects us as human beings, it gives us a great responsibility, and of course it also has a very important international significance. There is broad Norwegian agreement on the main features of the Norwegian policy in terms of the conflict, both the one in South Sudan and that in Syria. It is important that we stick to it, and it is important that Norway maintains its commitment to humanitarian aid as much as we do. In South Sudan, I would like to support the position of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, that we are using our strong position – where Norway has a strong position, together with the United Kingdom and the United States, in the troika, with a long history towards South Sudan – and that the most important thing now is to help maintain a fragile truce, so that you can build more long-term, over time. Then we have to support the humanitarian aid. I support the Minister of Foreign Affairs in that it is particularly important to focus on women and children, who are affected to a large extent, and so, for South Sudan, it must be recognised that this is a conflict that can also have a rapid disparity in the region. There is an ongoing serious conflict in the Central African Republic, there are fighting acts in Darfur, there has been a concern in Uganda in the past, and Ugandan forces are also inside South Sudan, so it is important here that Norway uses its role to maintain the ceasefire, support under stability, support the vulnerable in the conflict and build long-term economic development and support under a more stable and democratic regime. It is important, as the Foreign Minister points out, not to exaggerate the ethnic contradictions, but to insist that this is primarily a political conflict, where we must also find basic political solutions. Then Syria – a disaster. When you think back three years, it's almost hard to imagine that this, which started with peaceful demonstrations, could end up in such an evil situation as today. There, Norway must also use the economic opportunity we have to support under all possible humanitarian aid. This applies in Syria, which is the case in the countries around it, and by receiving quota refugees to Norway. We also need to look closely at the situation that arises when refugees from Syria become part of a major refugee problem towards Europe – there are Syrian refugees among those who have drowned in the Mediterranean. This is something that Norway has to be a central part of. Now we're in the second round of the negotiations, and it's positive that at least the first germ of consensus has arisen in Homs, by having been able to get some humanitarian aid, and you've been able to get some of those under siege. Then I will support the Foreign Minister in that it is totally unacceptable to use hunger and detention of medical help as a means of warfare. It must be absolutely essential – and we must demand – to follow international humanitarian law. It is important that the Security Council hold together on the fundamental values and put pressure on the parties to comply with international humanitarian law, the right to access humanitarian emergency aid. Humanitarian aid needs to be brought up now. There's a complicated situation in Syria. The Minister of Foreign Affairs stresses the importance of setting up a transitional regime where Assad does not have a role. Then you have to ask yourself, how are we going to relate to the different groupings? It is a broken opposition group, from the most extreme Islamists in ISIL and the Nusra Front to the Free Syrian Army. My final question is on the Syrian National Coalition. Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs say anything about the Norwegian relationship despite all the only part of the opposition that it may be possible to intervene in, and also make demands?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e422	Let me first commend the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good deal, but also for having quickly visited the two areas we are discussing. At my best he has played an active role in both the two conflicts from the start, passed on the former government and Norway's strong role in South Sudan, but also were active in relation to Syria. These are two conflicts where Norway uses large resources. I noticed that at one point there were 19 representatives present in the Chamber at the same time on foreign policy. That's good. We're usually turned off by diplomatism, but I also interpret it positively, because that means we're spending a lot of resources on the two conflicts in Norway. In Syria, what the Foreign Minister spent a lot of time working for a solution is important and necessary. But I think, unfortunately, that at the same time it is necessary to know that the situation we are currently facing can be very long and that the work needs to take a height. This means that in the use of our resources it is necessary to think in the long term. This means that one in political work needs to be heightened to allow time to move forward in Syria, but not least so that the refugee situation can be serious and long-term. That it's going to happen, as the representative of Elvesuen was in here, to play in relation to Europe, I think it's absolutely right. I'd like to ask the government to review the possibility of increasing the number of refugees from Syria that Norway accepts. In the opinion of SV, it would be right to carry out such an increase if there is still a great need to accept refugees, as we all know. When it comes to South Sudan, it is terrible that they will be in such a great humanitarian crisis. It's very good that Norway bitreg. I expect that there may be a need for additional contributions, but here it is to the degrees so that the political solution is the only possible solution, and that it is actually possible. We know that there is a potential, and I think it is very right and wise for the Foreign Minister to use considerable resources on it in the future. Here Norway has the competence and knowledge to play an important role, and I would also like to say that using the competences of individuals and organisations here – Norwegian People's Aid and others – will be important for a country in Norway is a significant commitment. The Foreign Affairs Committee was in the United Nations a few weeks ago, and there were many things there that made an impression. But the number that made the most impression on me -- it's previously referred to here by the representative Huitfeldt -- was that in the 1990s about half of the military forces that participated in UN operations, from NATO countries, and now it is, according to what the UN informed us about, about 2 pst. by the military forces of the UN operations coming from NATO countries. In other words, the richest countries in the world, with the highest military capacity, take 2 pst. of the job with the operations we are involved in giving a mandate to the UN Security Council. It may have some explanations — the high level of participation in Afghanistan over time, among others. - but it cannot continue. It is not possible to claim that one takes a decisive responsibility for the UN and then sets up the NATO countries in sum by 2 pst. over time. Then we don't do enough with our allies. Therefore, it is SV’s opinion that Norway will have to strengthen its military participation in UN operations in the future and work actively towards NATO countries in order for them to do the same. It should be both possible and realistic, with a slowdown in Afghanistan, which is on the steps of the coming years. I can't help but realize that South Sudan is pointing out – it's a very natural military operation to participate in even heavier, a country we know a lot about, an operation we know is very important, and where it's very clear to the United Nations that there is a need for more capacity and strengths of competence. Therefore, on behalf of the Swedish Government, I would like to consider a significant strengthening of the Norwegian UNMISS contribution – i.e. the contribution to the UN mandated operation in South Sudan, and that, after clarifying that we want it, we will contact the UN for a dialogue on what kind of extra contribution can make the most difference. I also hope that the Foreign Minister will comment on this in his summary.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e435	It is good to be able to establish that there is a broad consensus in the UK about Norway’s Syria policy and our contributions in South Sudan. I feel that as a great strength in the further work. There are also many good and important recordings, so I'll see how far I get on the four minutes I have left. To the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the representative of Huitfeldt: UN Resolution 2118 on the destruction of Syrian chemical weapons shall be implemented. That's not an option. We must ensure that they are not used against the civilian population again. As I said in my post, we have now taken out 31 of 260 containers of chemical weapons, and we experience so far that Syria wants to get rid of the weapons, but we have to hold up the pressure against Syria to ensure that this is done. So the question of Norway's contribution to international peacekeeping operations. It is true that with fewer forces in Afghanistan, Norway’s capacity to contribute to other conflicts increases over time, and we need to keep considering requests for strength support. In particular, with regard to the issue raised by the representative Solhjell on UN peacekeeping operations in South Sudan – and Norway is already one of the most important contributors in total in South Sudan – it is also such that we contribute to this operation with civil personnel, police and other means. I myself have visited the Northmen who participate in this in Juba. We haven't been asked so far by the United Nations about more military personnel. What the United Nations has asked us about is whether we can provide air support to transport both military assistance and the material that the United Nations needs there, and of course we have set that up. If there were any enquiries from the United Nations that we're going to be dealing with military personnel in South Sudan, of course, we'll seriously assess it and see if we can do it, too, at the top of the other things we're doing. But as I said, the UN has so far asked us about other types of support, and we have met that. I also support Huitfeldt's emphasis on the importance of security efforts in the camps of young women in Syria and neighbouring countries. Among other things, we do: this through the Refugee Aid, which I believe the representative also knows. In addition, education is an important element and area of activity in neighbouring countries, which benefits Syrian children as well as weaker children within Syria. When it comes to the question of the Syrian National Coalition by the representative of Elvestuen, we have regular contact with them, and we have a good intake there. We are also concerned that they include several moderate groups in the future, and – as I said – both in South Sudan and Syria, there is no commitment and no commitment to bringing women and civil society into this work. There we put pressure on both the national coalition and the groups we're talking to in South Sudan. Overall, I would like to repeat what I said at the outset, that it also gives Norway greater impact both on the ongoing negotiations on Syria and on the work we are doing through the troika, that there is such a broad consensus on these efforts in the Grand Duchy. I really appreciate that. It also serves and benefits the situation. Norway will continue to be one of the leading humanitarian contributors in Syria. We will support the destruction of chemical weapons, and we will also support neighbouring countries and increase support for neighbouring countries Lebanon and Jordan. In South Sudan, we will maintain a strong Norwegian commitment to ensure that this state does not end in a civil war.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e455	The debate on the presentation is thus closed. The President will propose that the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the situation and Norway's involvement in Syria and South Sudan be annexed to the Protocol. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e473	I refer you to the representative proposal from the representatives of Torgair Knag Fylkesnes and Audun Lysbakken on the non-characteristic kindergarten. Here the said representatives propose that tests on grades should not be allowed at primary school. The Committee on Churches, Education and Research has examined the proposal, and I am presenting the Committee's opinion today. I would like to begin by thanking an overall committee for a good cooperation in the examination of this matter, and refer to the Committee's joint comments on the importance of a good feedback culture in school. The Committee is also unanimous in the fact that the access of municipalities and county municipalities to test new educational and organisational methods at school contributes to good school development. It is positive that the Committee can support this overall, regardless of the debate on characteristics in particular. Nevertheless, the Committee is presenting a split opinion today. A minority, consisting of the Labour Party, the SV and the Centre, will vote in favour of the proposal for a representative, while the majority of the Committee, consisting of the members of the Right, the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, recommend that the proposal be annexed to the Minutes. The Christian People's Party and the Left also have their own comments, where they point out that they are not followers of introducing characters earlier in school, but they are, however, adherents to allowing any limited attempts in this area and therefore do not vote for the proposal. I feel confident that the minority supporting the proposal will justify this both in depth and well today. I am therefore going to focus in my introduction on why the majority has reached a different conclusion. The introduction of grades earlier than today has been regularly and sometimes quite violently debated. For this reason, the Minister of Knowledge has also made it clear on several occasions that it is not the right-wing Party government policy to introduce characters earlier in the school cycle. The proposal of the representative we are debating today is therefore about whether access should be granted to municipalities to carry out, where appropriate, tests on grades earlier in school. So the proposal is to remove this access. This opens up, in the view of the majority, for a rather different and larger debate than the character debate in concrete terms. The consequence of the adoption of this proposal for a representative will in reality mean that Stortinget restricts the experimental provision in Sections 1 to 4 of the 1998 Training Act on a proposal from the Committee. So the representative proposal intends to restrict the use of a legal provision given by the Stortinget. It would be problematic to adopt a practice whereby an alternate majority of this will adopt the procedures to be allowed by some of the proposed representatives. In one of their comments, the three red-green parties wrote that «the school should not be an ideological battlefield». It's probably a unanimous vote on that in the committee. One of the strengths of the Norwegian school is that there is a great local freedom to try out new pedagogical methods, and that there is a curiosity as to whether there are other ways to learn away. That is why we just have to avoid turning school into an ideological battlefield, which I would argue would contribute to. I would like to stress once again that the Minister of Knowledge has announced that there will be no proposal to introduce characters in primary school, nor does this appear in the Government Declaration to the Right and the Advance Party. So what will the consequence of adopting this proposal actually be? Let's say that a municipality, in cooperation with its local school, wants to carry out an experiment where in the last six months in the seventh grade, the students are told what character they are at in the primary schools, before they begin high school. We want this because we know – as the OECD has also pointed out – that some students in Norway struggle with the transition from no grades to grades in all subjects in the autumn of the 8th grade. The experiment would be time-limited and followed up with evaluation and research. So these three red-green parties will automatically say no. It's not the slightest curiosity or interest to see if this made the transition to high school better. So let's say that a high school wants to phase in the grades in the eighth grade to see if this solves the same problem. Would the red-green parties oppose such an experiment? If it doesn't mean there's an interest, including in these parties, in looking at the phase-in of grades at school. Or they think that the only way that works in the phase-in of grades is that it comes in all subjects from the first day of school in the eighth grade. I'm not saying I have the answer. That's why I'm for the trials. I am pleased that the majority today will maintain the good school model we have and look forward to a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e509	Suggestor Knag Fylkesnes has an exciting character. A person's character can be complex and interesting, and a person's character can say quite a lot. But in Norwegian school, you don't talk about grades like that. Characters are given only as an assessment of individual liver performance. I think I should be careful to put a character on the representative Knag Fylkesnes. I could give him a 4, but what does that really mean? SV has submitted a proposal for a representative that there should be no child-bearing capacity and that there should also be no possibility of opening up testing schemes. The Labour Party agrees. We're against grades in high school because we're followers of a school where students learn as much as possible – a knowledge school where students are guided there and then, by dedicated teachers, and not on a half-yearly basis, where students are assessed on a scale from 1 to 6. The Workers' Party has a knowledge-based approach to this. Good over 70 pst. by those who carry out their educational activities at school, i.e. teachers, are opposed to grades in primary school. Also, a number of key school students point out that grades in high school do not promote learning. First anamunensis Åge Diseth at the University of Bergen says giving grades in primary school is against research. It makes young people aware of performance rather than mastery joys, and there is no research to suggest that it is good – on the contrary. There is also clear evidence that internal motivation for learning is reduced in the transition between primary and secondary education. Researcher Oddrun Samdal follows up: ‘The joy in itself makes them perform. Characters may act as a hindrance to such a learning process.» I love when words like mastery are as strongly attached to achievement and learning as what these scientists are doing. That's what this is all about. And I am convinced that a 3 on the dictatorship does not primarily build mastery joys. But that doesn't mean we're going to have a labyrinth of assessment culture in high school, on the contrary. We need to have a good, comprehensive and clear assessment culture based on what we know works, because the goal should always be as much learning promotion as possible in Norwegian school. Petra needs to know what she needs to do concretely in order for the K-sound to fall into place, Karsten needs clear feedback so that he can control the property pronouns himself, and the teacher must have sufficient knowledge of Thorbjørns. fractionation skills, so she can help him crack the code. I agree with the OECD when they say no to grades, but at the same time would argue that the student assessment should be strengthened at the intermediate stage. Why is this debate coming up? Well, because the government parties Right and Advance Party are clear for grades from 5th grade, while now it's a little bit uncertain what they really mean. It's programme and partisan, but it's not supposed to be introduced nationally. However, testing will be allowed – as it is, among other things. Some right-hand-ridden cities that are reasonably clear – but only a few attempts, because you're against, while you're for. The final score is often: all in all, this isn't with grades so incredibly important, it's after all the teacher that is. This is an example of what we think is diffuse overall school policy signals from the positioning parties. At least the working party has decided. We're a strong supporter of the trial paragraph. There should be room for trying good arrangements that we think can take the school in the right direction. But we think it's well-lit that grades in high school are more to the detriment than to the benefit. And then this becomes a debate about something a little bit more than just protecting the trial paragraph. We agree with the teachers. We're leaning on research. Kindergarten characters we're against because it doesn't promote learning, and learning is the word that's going to be first in the pancake when we talk about developing the good school.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e544	Let me first say that this case is not about cutting grades at school. This debate is about not initially rejecting all requests for time-limited trials for a small number of students and to be followed up with research and evaluation. If the proposal in this case is supported, it may have consequences for far more than schools and their ability to experiment. In fact, other sectors authorised to carry out trials and research projects may have to go to Stortinget for approval. I would also like to remind you that permission for local trials at school is regulated by the Training Act. This proposal for a representative will, in effect, restrict the use of legal instruments already provided by the Stortinget. The party considers experimentation in school to be positive and believes that this can contribute valuable knowledge and insight. It assumes that the results of the tests will be carefully evaluated to see if they give the desired result. This is also a question of trust in teachers and school leaders. Experimental schemes allow creative teachers and school leaders on their own initiative just to try to get a better school. Restrictions on this scheme are, on the SV side, an expression of distrust to school leaders and teachers. In the proposal, the main argument against grades is that research does not show that numerical characters are more learning-promoting, and that this will result in students being more suspended from comparing themselves with other students than listening to the teacher's feedback, while a main argument for grades is that it will create a smoother transition from a non-characteristic primary school to a secondary school with grades in almost all subjects. There is no clear research that one is more right than the other. What is quite clear, however, is that several studies show that we have a weak feedback culture, and that in some cases there is no real feedback to the students in Norwegian school. The 2009 student survey showed that only three out of ten fifth-class students replied that they received feedback from the teacher on what they could do better in one or more subjects. The international TALIS survey, carried out in 2008, shows that Norway lacks a good feedback culture at all levels of school, from school owner to school manager, from school manager to teacher, and not least from teacher to student. The OECD assessment of Norwegian school in 2011 also revealed several weaknesses. Among other things, poor feedback to the students was referred to as a major weakness in the school. A study conducted at the Stockholm University of Stord/Haugesund in 2010 shows that the assessment practices of teachers are generally differentiated from different student types. The analysis, based on observation data, video recording of interaction situations in the classroom and verbal and written teacher reflections, shows that professionally strong students receive significantly more professionally oriented feedback than weak students. So theoretical students get more constructive and better feedback, while the feedback to the less theoretical students is more socially and behaviourally oriented, like: Now you were good, well done! Thus, these rivers do not receive the necessary professional feedback that can help improve their school performance. The study also shows that not all students are able to understand the feedback given by the teacher, and unintelligible feedback is poor feedback, according to the views of the Progress Party. A Swedish research report prepared by Anna Sjögren of the Institute for Labour Market Policy Assessment also confirms that children of highly educated parents do the best in a non-characteristic school, while the chances are getting worse for children from working families. Norsk Lektorlag has also concluded that they are for grades from the 5th class. Everyone agrees that professionally constructive feedback is important. Today's culture in the field is not good enough, especially for mentally weak students. Therefore, it is important to have a test of numerical characters together with the professional assessment that the teacher should in any case provide. As a result, grades in primary school can help solve some of the problems of unclear feedback. I would like to remind you once again that this matter is not just about grades, it is about schools still going to be allowed to try.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e579	Christian People's Party does not want grades in high school. We believe it is important that both pupils and parents get good feedback from the school on children’s learning and development, but we believe that grades are a little suitable way to provide such feedback to primary school children. There are many reasons why we mean it. For some students, grades may seem motivating. The ability to improve and get a better number in the character book may be an extra motivation to learn more and provide a little bit more. But for others – I think it will especially apply to the weakest students – grades can be de motivating and inhibiting. If a child is struggling to get it done at school, I don't think we're giving the child more education and motivation by putting it far down on a character scale. I think it's completely different things that have to do, and I think there are other forms of assessment and feedback that are much more suitable than grades. I also think that for some people getting this kind of feedback can weaken self-esteem. Those of us who sit on the Education Committee were not long ago visiting the OECD, and there we got. research presented to show the relationship between self-esteem as a child and various factors later in life. Having poor self-esteem as a child increases the risk of everything from unemployment to drug abuse and mental problems as an adult. That's why we should do what we can to build up children's self-esteem, even when they're at school. I don't think grades in high school will contribute to it – on the contrary. The grades in high school are also not the way to go if we want to give teachers better time to be teachers. I think we have to give teachers better time to keep on teaching. Then more testing, more assessment and more reporting are a step in the wrong direction. There are many reasons why the Christian People's Party is against grades in high school, but that's not what we're going to take a stand for today. Today we're not going to say yes or no to grades. Then the Christian People's Party had said a clear no. This case is about attempts at school, and there is something quite different. Trials at school are both useful and important, and various trials can contribute valuable knowledge needed to develop the school in a good way. It is worth noting that the whole educational committee is behind this, and that the proposers also indicate that access to trials provided by the Training Act contributes to good school development. I see that as a wholesaler, it can be very tempting to go in and control the details of what attempts we want to accept, and what attempts we do not want to accept. But I believe that this should not be the task of the Storting. We have to bear in mind that there are also trials that may go a little way across our own policies. I think it's important to keep such a room if we want to further develop the school in a good way. That is why the Christian People's Party is not going to support this proposal today. But I hope that the Council of State will be careful to open up too many trials in school. We in the Christian People's Party assume that the trials that are given green light are actual experiments that are professionally justified, which can be evaluated professionally afterwards, and which have a clear delimitation of both time and scope. We have confidence that the Council of State and the Department will handle this in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e596	Let me first thank the proposers for putting this matter on the agenda. Research shows that the use of grades in learning contexts is of limited value — yes, in some cases the use of grades can actually hinder learning by de motivating students, especially the most disadvantaged. The students who are in need of professional development are clear and regular feedbacks that provide them with good information about what they are mastering, and what is needed to master better. It is such feedback that helps to increase the learning outcomes of students. Students who work professionally will often develop a negative view of their own ability to learn, which is why the quality of the professional feedback to these students is particularly important. As pointed out in our remarks in the attitude, there is research that shows that grades lead to young people becoming more aware of performance rather than mastery joy, and that this has a negative impact on learning. The quality of the assessment is thus of great importance for the further learning of students. This is why the previous government started work to improve the assessment work at school. Among other things, a four-year effort was made in the project Appraisal for Learning. The aim is to further develop the assessment practices of teachers and trainers through increased competence and understanding of assessment as a tool for learning. The initiative is based on research and experience from several countries and on experience from the 2007-2009 Better assessment practice project. The red-green government also took action by laying down a new assessment regulation for the Training Act. The Centre Party is a member of a knowledge-based knowledge policy and will listen to researchers and teachers. What students learn from is clear, regular and systematic in-flight assessment. In a survey Responses conducted on behalf of the Federation of Education last year, Norwegian teachers respond as follows: 81 pst. say no to written grades from 5th grade. 85 pst. believes that written characters would be demotivating to professionally weak students. Just 20 pst. believe that written characters will increase students’ motivation and learning ability. If the aim is to promote learning, I can't understand the point of allowing experiments like both research and clear signals from those who have this as a profession, i.e. the teachers, saying will be demotive and lead to an excessive performance pressure on the students. There are so many reasons why the introduction of traits at kindergarten is a bad idea that this debate should really be superfluous. Unfortunately, there are still forces that are pressing. Both the municipalities that have notified that they will apply for trials, and the municipal evaluation of the process – which, in the opinion of the Centre Party, is the use of character-like concepts – show that there is a need to lower their feet. I am pleased that the Council of State has so clearly stated that the introduction of grades in childhood is not a current policy during this period. I choose to understand that the Council of State agrees with the strong arguments that contradict. At the same time, it worries us, students, teachers and not least parents that local right-wing politicians have not received the signals from their own government, but it alerts them that they will start their own experiments. Both from Hordaland and Oslo there have been signs that they will send applications. The centre party is a hot follower of the test paragraph, which has proved to be very useful and has given the opportunity to drive school development with local anchoring. It is positive that active school owners are seeking to develop the school through experimentation. However, there is a big difference between driving trials there, for example, through one of them. redistribution of hours, subjects, methodology, etc. will drive quality development, and bypassing the law under test — as in this case. I'm glad that the setting shows that at Stortinget there is such a clear majority against the introduction of characters at the nursery. The setting is also a clear signal to the government that it would be very unwise to bypass the bulk of the population by allowing testing. It would be a direct provocation if the will of the majority of the population were to be overrun by allowing for massive trials in order to give a large number of children in practice grades, and the Training Act explicitly prohibits this. The centre party hopes that the Council of State will take with it the clear signals from a majority in this room and, not least, from teachers, students and parents who are opposed to post-school students for the trial, who will tear down rather than build up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e632	The left has been campaigning that we are against grades in high school. We're still on that. I'm also going to follow it up during this great period. But we have also had a campaign that we want to try at school. It means to us that as a crowd, we should not go in and limit the trials we should be able to allow and carry out at school. In terms of grades, we don't have any faith that grades in themselves are a good way to give feedback. But feedback at school is important. It is important that students know where the list is and that students know what is expected of them to get better. As many speakers have pointed out in the past, there are some research that suggests that grades in themselves are not good for the individual student in the sense that the student should get better or as feedback. We believe that feedback must be primarily a feedback for further learning, and that a character does not necessarily provide motivation for those students who are struggling more than others. I don't want to be so categorical as to say that all the research points to it, but some research definitely points to it. I also don't want to be so categorical as to say that since research so far indicates that grades haven't wanted an effect, we're not going to have trials in school. I think we need to be a little bit open to learn new things. We need to be open to attempts to show new results, although it is not a goal to introduce grades – because it is not a goal for the Left to introduce grades in high school. The teachers themselves have been very clear that they do not want grades in high school. There's something we should listen to, both because the teachers are the ones who have the shoe on and know where it prints, it's the ones who associate with the students every day, and it's the ones who are the closest to seeing what's the best evaluation and feedback for the students. Not least, many have expressed concern that there will be an increase in character bureaucracy. It's a concern we're going to take seriously, because teachers have now for many years given feedback that the amount of red tape is increasing in Norwegian school, and that they can't spend their time on what they want to spend on it, and it's primarily to teach the students new things. Of course, it also includes giving feedback to students about what they do well, what they do less well, and how they should get better. But grades in themselves can be a bureaucratic one. I am pleased that the government has given signals – so far – that they do not want to introduce characters. Of course, the government can count and know that there is no majority in the Storting for such an introduction. I assume that they will follow up, and I look forward to hearing the statements of the Council of State later and hope he there tells a little about what the government thinks about this. The left has been clear that tests must be real tests. We're not going to have any smear introductions of grades in high school, because there's no experiment. An experiment must be based on ex post knowledge acquisition and evaluation — real trials. The left will continue to follow up, make sure that we do not now get a hole in the test facility in such a way that everyone who is applying for a permit is allowed. I look forward, as I said, to the Council of State explaining more of its views, but I would also like to express that the Left is going to follow this matter further, because we are not followers of grades in high school, and we do not want any snitching of grades.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e651	We all tried to get into the Storting, and we also meant that we would come in. We tried, and we came in. It wasn't like that that we tried just for the trial's sake, and that when we actually got in, we were going to undo it. Try not to just play games, try doing something because you want to see if there is something you want to do inside. Trials are in themselves good, but one should be reasonably sure that the experiments one does work – especially when we talk about children, about real people. Children should not be used to experiment with. One child should proceed with caution. We've had characters on all of the steps in Norway. In the 1960s we had characters throughout the school, and only in 1973 did an era of characters end at the nursery. It was also very professionally justified. If you go in and look at the debate that was then, the argument from those who were against removing the characters in the children's ball is very similar to the argument that is behind those who now want to go on trying out characters in the children's ball. The research and the atmosphere of those in school, those who know children and learning, is very clear. A survey conducted by Response showed that 77 pst. by all the teachers think characters in the 5th grade will be de motivating. 71 pst. was against the introduction of grades in the 5th grade. The educational federation, which organizes most of the teachers, is massively opposed. Parents are against, and the researchers -- now we're not going to end up in a climate discussion where one can of course find some researcher who's meant something else -- are unisony, so far as we can say that researchers are unisony. They also stress that the external motivation for learning, as a character, is instrumental – you learn because you need to achieve a character, you learn because you need to be measured on a test. You do not promote the inner motivation, which is the strongest motivation for learning. For researchers to bet on lower-age characters is therefore a very instrumental human vision. In this region, there are two different parties in Norwegian policy. The Right Party and the Progress Party have decided that they want to introduce characters, against all the massive knowledge we have in the area, and against the mood that's in the school. That's also a little bit of a reason why we in SV propose this. We believe that the Right and Advance Party are threatening to actually force attempts at the school despite massive resistance in the school itself and warnings from researchers. It says a little bit about what kind of proposals this is. Spokespersons for what together will be a student base of almost half of all students in Norwegian school are ready to start testing. The local authorities do not have the power to drive from the school. It comes from local government. It is the politicians who know best how to implement this. In some of these municipalities they have even received feedback from the schools and received resistance to the proposal. I want to say that it represents an ideological experimentation if a test of characters is started in the children's sphere – an ideological experiment with children at the child's stage. Then the question is, who should be the first to be in this experiment? Is there Drammen and the students there to be used in the experiment? Is that Oslo? Is that Bergen? Do the schoolteachers get to be heard? Would you like to ask the students? Would you like to ask the students? Would you like to ask your parents? Or are the local government representatives the only one who listens to, who wants to comply with the party program to the Right and the Advance Party? That is why I want to promote the proposal to the minority, which is referred to in the case file.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e672	The representative of Fylkesnes then addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e675	It has already been pointed out here that I can count votes. Although the fraction isn't always equal to the patent, counting is pretty straightforward. That's why it's very easy to repeat what I said in one of the very first weeks, and it's that the proposal in the Right and Advance Party's programmes to have grades in high school is put in a drawer, and it's not going to be promoted. Let's do it. This is not a question of character either. It could have been tempting to have a debate about characters. You could ask yourself if it's more or less instrumental to have it when you start from high school, or not, and what's the big difference. But that's not what this is. This is a discussion about the pilot scheme we have in Norwegian school, a scheme that has been there for a long time, that has had broad political support, and how it should be set up. I just want to make it clear that, I am aware, there have not been any applications for tests with grades – or not having grades – at school. That's my starting point, at least when we checked this a few weeks ago. I also want to draw attention to the fact that this is not a centralised system. The pilot scheme does not work in such a way that the Stortinget, or the Department, or the Directorate, decides to have a trial and then implement it. This is a system that has just been created to ensure that municipalities can apply for trials. And the definition of an experiment is that there is something that can't be done within the current legislation. So it's kind of making rules. There may be many different types of trials you might want. When Kristin Klemet was Minister of Knowledge, there were major attempts to map, and it wasn't because it was in the Right Program, or in the Government Declaration, that one was for directory assessment. No, it was because the trial scheme was important, and one would also allow trials that were initially opposed. It may be that, for example, book-keeping municipalities would like to apply for attempts to use neo-Norwegian earlier in their training. This is not something the government is going to suggest that you do absolutely everywhere, but it's a good opportunity to apply for a trial, if anyone wants to. So you can only imagine all the possibilities this system can use for. Then I have two starting points: firstly, neither is it the case that these attempts come just because a rapporteur will. There are rules on how to apply and what process to apply for a trial. This means, for example: that pupils – or at least teachers and schools – should be consulted. Parents shall be consulted and informed. One also has an obligation to consult with other actors in the municipality; it does not just have to take a decision. The second starting point is that I do not want to conduct proceedings on attempts through the media. First of all, it means that there is no guarantee that the applicants will receive a yes. It presupposes, as the Left's representative very correctly said, that it is a real attempt – I believe it is important – that there is a time-limited experiment, that good research is available, and that the results may be used for something. But it also means that the test system is not strangled until the tests have developed. This is, in my view, the big problem with this proposal, because this will mean keeping an experimental system, but it is being politicised; it is open to any government, or to any number of large sizes, to opt out of attempts that you do not like by law. That means that if someone had now arrived who might try a gradual phase-in of grades at the steps where you have grades today, then a blue government would say no and try to make it possible that the type of experiment was not allowed, while a red or red-green majority would then try to say no to all of the things they opposed. That is exactly what is the foundation of the test system, namely that there is a safety valve for local experiments that is not centrally initiated. So, of course, the trials have to provide more information, and there has to be a thought that somehow this will benefit the students, but there is a way that good people can disagree. It is a minority formulation that only trials should be conducted where there is a broad and unambiguous research basis pointing in one direction. In those cases, I would recommend that if something is so obvious that something is right, then you should do it and not have locally initiated trials.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e697	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e700	The Minister of Knowledge says that you should not go against trials that you yourself oppose. That's why the Right, as it says on the Right's website, in 2007 went against attempts at character-free school. Of course, this focuses on school policy in different ways. In medicine, it is considered unethical to carry out tests that are known to have no effect. So in school, the majority think it's wrong for the students to have grades, but it's right to put the students on trial at high school. My question to the Council of State therefore becomes political, not about the trial paragraph, but about the content: What makes the Right Party – across research, across the minds of the teachers – think that grades are a good thing in primary school, even though the majority of the population are currently stopping that project?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e707	I'm sorry, I'm here as the Council of State, and I'm talking on behalf of the government's policy. The government's policy is now very clear: the government statement does not state that we should have grades of 5, 6 or 7th grade, and I have said clearly that we are not going to introduce that either. Then we'll have to take the party political debates on the Right Program or other programs elsewhere. That is the government's policy, and that is also the starting point. This is a question of the pilot scheme, and the special thing about it is that the Workers' Party is now suddenly in favour of a system that limits an experimental system for which there has been a broad political majority and risks politicising a system that has previously been a safety valve for obtaining knowledge locally, where there have been locally initiated attempts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e714	I think it's amazing, and I don't think I've ever heard it in the big room, that we're going to have to take 'the party political debates elsewhere'. [[...]] I repeat my question to the Minister of Knowledge – elected on a programme from the Right – who acknowledges that over 50 pst. against grades in high school, it stops the project, although there are 165 high school representatives: Why is the party Right for grades in high school? If the political debate cannot be taken into the main hall, I think this forum will be a very uninteresting place. And is it because you can't justify the political position in science, in the experiences of the teachers, in the knowledge of the school, in what we know motivates the students to learn, that you now avoid discussing what is at the heart of the matter, namely a deep disagreement about grades in high school? That's why there's also a disagreement about whether this is a positive attempt, because the Workers' Party's view is that we should not conduct trials in school that we think are harmful to students' learning. Why is the Right for grades in high school?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e721	The President may state that counting can be difficult, but there are 169 representatives in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e724	Such little math clips we must be able to forgive, I think! My starting point is very simple, and that's what government policy is. The government's policy is clear to the sun, and it's not in the government statement. I have also said very clearly that this is not being implemented. Then – and was – there is a discussion in the Right about the transition between childhood and high school, and in the party there were different opinions about it. A majority at the national meeting meant what is now in the Right Programme, but the government's policy is therefore that there are no characters at childhood. This issue is also about something quite different; it is about the gradual politicisation of an experimental system – which has been a safety valve, and on which there has been broad political agreement. Also, very familiarly, there has never been any previous proposal in Stortinget to limit the testing scheme in this way, and I think it is alarming that such a large minority is in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e735	Last year there was a lot of discussion around attempts at snowmobiles, and many here in Stortinget feel that the government is far too let go of granting permission to trial schemes. It's one of the things that concerns us also when it comes to grades. The Council of State now says that he has not received any applications for trials with grades in high school, but we have all recorded that there are many, especially right-wing municipalities, who have called for such a test scheme. My question to the Council of State is, can he say anything about what he sees in terms of the scope of such applications? How much will he allow by experimenting in this area? And not least, can he say anything about how he wants to ensure the quality of the trials he gives permission to? How are we going to make sure that there are real trials for which permission is given?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e746	Thank you for the question. It is tempting to start discussing snowmobiles and not the trial system, but again – like in the previous question – I will stick to what is the matter. I have been concerned not to process test applications through the media, and therefore I have said that I am not initially saying no to any applications within the regulatory and regulatory framework. But at the same time, it is important that if the trial system is to have the right to life, it must be because it is a limited and time-limited scheme, and it must be a good and solid research scheme that allows you to learn some of the things that have been tried locally in a school. I heard that wording that the Left too used during its article, and I very much agree with that. It will of course mean that there's a certain constraint on how many attempts there's a point to have going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e757	I have to admit, I'm very confused about the foundation given by the Council of State here. It seems that the Council of State recognizes that there is massive resistance to characters in high school, and that there is massive research that suggests that this is not particularly interesting, but nevertheless doubt the Council of State on the principle that one should not go against that type of application. That is why the proposal is so important, because there are a lot more here – and I would assume that it also intervenes at the centre of Norwegian policy – that there is an uncertainty as to what a minister of knowledge elected on a programme from the Progress Party and the Right will do when all these applications, more than 50 applications, from spokesmen come to his table. Then the question is asked again: does the Minister of Knowledge think that there is now a professional basis for introducing characters into high school?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e766	We're not going to come up with a proposal to introduce grades in high school. To put it this way: if I had thought it was the most important school thing to do, I would probably have stood out more clearly than what I'm doing now. So the question is, is there anything interesting to research here? First, there is little research on grades in primary school from Norway. That's an important point. Secondly, we know that it has been pointed out, among other things. from the OECD, that the transition from childhood to secondary school, from not grades — but, of course, with systematic feedback — to character is difficult. It might be interesting to look at. We have e.g. a study from Sweden in the 1970s, with municipalities that decided whether to have grades or not, which showed that children with working class background were the worst in a non-grade system. All that can mean is that there are interesting things to pick up also through local trials. But as I said, I will not say yes or no to attempts until they end up on my table.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e781	The representative of Fylkesnes is given the floor for a reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e785	It's interesting that the minister goes back to the 1970s to get research on this. It shows you that you really have to search the research literature to find something that can speak in the direction of the ideological project that stands in the Right and the Progress Party's programs. I want to reform the question because it seems that it is very difficult to get a clear answer in this matter: Does the Minister see that there is a professional basis for starting attempts at grades in high school? If yes, what municipalities and what children does the Minister intend to begin with?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e794	Both premises in the question from SV's representative are wrong. Not the Council of State to initiate the experiment. It is not the department that should initiate trials. Nor are we going to create, initiate or do anything like this in any area of the trial paragraph. It is possible for municipalities to initiate local trials, even if they do not follow the national framework and national law. I mean it's those who want to change today's laws, who have the burden of proof. This is a law that has had a broad political majority. It's been there a long time. There has been a broad consensus in this room among all parties that one should have an opportunity to experiment. Then there are those who want to change today's legislation, who have the burden of proof – not us who want to maintain the legislation as it is today. Today's system works fine, to say it like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e801	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e804	The right-wing Party government will build the trust society. Dear assembly, that in practice means respecting the community. The fact that proposals and ideas such as Kommune-Norway, which can contribute positively to the creation of a better school, that they should be rejected in this room through political opinions and not through professional and research-based knowledge, is alarming. It's actually very alarming to see that this additionally has quite a stir in this hall. What principle are we in the process of rocking by here if we were to have a majority for what was the original idea of the proposal for a representative? There is a lot of research, but there is little research in this case. It's actually very little Norwegian research, and to the extent that we have something to support ourselves to do, it's largely from abroad. School researcher Anna Sjögren has produced a report in Sweden that showed that young people who came from socially disadvantaged and academically weak homes actually benefited from a good and clear feedback. I'm not saying it's the fasit, but it shows one research that points out that there might also be something to get to light this topic more. A student survey in 2009 showed that only three out of 10 students in the 5th grade received feedback. What does that do for the other seven out of ten students? Assessment for learning was introduced by the Red-Greens. Those who have been on the Education Directorate's website and have seen little detail on the videos made in that presentation, see teachers who, in clear dialogue with pupils at the nursery, discuss what is needed to get good scores in some professional challenge. There is play, and that is a very good pedagogical approach, but the point is – and it is quite interesting – that under consideration for learning you have a pedagogical principle that is quite broadly anchored, to be very clear about where you end up in this assessment. The distinction between that and saying it in plain text is probably a little unclear, but the point is that there is no black-and-white situation in this case. Therefore, I just have to be allowed to say: At a time when we are going to celebrate the 200th anniversary of the Constitution, at a time when we are starting with a municipal reform that aims to move state power down to the municipalities, and at a time when we are going to build the trust society and debureaucratise, it is sad to see that this proposal is promoted from the Spokesman of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e821	For the last ten or twelve years, I have worked with textbooks and textbooks for higher education, and much has been directed towards teacher education. It has been a long time since I stopped counting all the books that were published, both in my own publishing house and others, with titles such as «Assessment for learning», «Assessment for learning in school», «Assessment for learning in the field», etc. There has been a significant focus on such topics in the scientific literature and in the school sector in recent years, and it has taught me one thing: evaluation in school is not an exact science, and there is a significant interest in providing knowledge about different assessment methods and how they work. That's the possibility this case is about. It has also been pointed out from international trade unions that we can improve our evaluation in Norwegian school. That's why it's a paradox for me when the proposer of this Document 8 proposal seems to think that the professional community has concluded on this topic once and for all. The Committee's minority comments state that attempts at character should not be allowed because it is 'politically-incited only, and not professionally-initiated'. I see this as unsound. The whole purpose of the pilot schemes in Norwegian school is — and must be — to acquire more knowledge. It's hard, in my opinion, to be against. We have a long tradition of pilot projects in Norwegian school, and that's good. It is also the case that any project applications should be accepted before they are implemented. In this context, the Council of State must take responsibility for the criteria, framework and quality of the projects that are granted in order to contribute to new knowledge. If this Document 8 which has now been presented were to have a majority and result in a change in the law, it would, in effect, restrict the school’s professionals and the school owners’ ability to take their own initiatives in order to bring about new knowledge and experience. It implies a reversal of a Norwegian school’s freedom to propose and implement development and pilot projects. A restriction on this area is a step in the wrong direction. Having said that, I fully agree with those who believe that it must be reasonable to require that the pilot project that is granted be followed up by research and should be carried out in cooperation with the teacher training and other qualified professional environments. Only in this way can experimental work contribute to more knowledge and become part of a new school evaluation basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e832	I'll start with a quote: ‘In school, grades have been used as a tool for comparison. I'm a strong opponent of grades in primary school. In a compulsory school, we are not allowed to force students to participate in daily competitions, where we know that there are people who always win and others who always lose. Something happens with the self-esteem of children who are told every day that they are losers compared to the others in the class. The others are placed between yourself and life. They're shadows for the true image of yourself. And the kids are developing counter-strategies to protect themselves. They disengage the energy-bearing forces and become apathetic, sluggish, giddy-free. Or they're looking for other champion arenas: the roads, the drug environment, the criminal gang. But what about the argument that the children will meet the competition later in life – and that therefore it is as good to prepare them first as last? For me, this argument is as relevant as saying that children should get married in their six-year-olds. Most people get married when they grow up. I believe that competition and comparison are driving out the worst in us. I don't want the school to contribute to that. Children must learn mastery in relation to themselves and their own abilities, not in relation to the others. Based on their own assumptions, they have to be able to set their goals and realize their dreams. The school shall be a place of cooperation – not comparison.’» As I said initially, these are not my words, but a quotation from the book The Teacher of Inge Eidsvåg, who has a long experience as a teacher, and as many of us know well. I'm no expert in the field, but when I went to high school, it was grades, and I recognize what he describes. When the grades came, the comparison was in full swing, and how they in my class who never got it all, felt it, I don't know, but it couldn't have been quite right. But enough about Inge Eidsvåg and my experience. These include: The representative, Mr. Thinning Bjørnø, said in his post, is over 70 pst. by the teachers against. Central school researchers believe that it is not educationally promoting, and the OECD says no to grades in primary school. When we know what we know – and I hear, among other things. The Left Party and the Christian People's Party speak against grades, and with good arguments – why in all the world will they put so many to the test? And to the representatives of Gudmundsen and Tveiden Benestad: I stress that we are in favour of feedback and evaluations. Ratings are something completely different. So to the Council of State, which in its speech told us that the proposal to introduce characters was put in a drawer. But in the Right Program we can read that they are in order to introduce grades, and although the government has now said that they will not introduce it, there are some Right-Rapporteurs who are concerned about following the Right Program. Then I challenge the Right one more time: Why in the world does Right think it's a good idea to introduce grades to high school?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e852	We're all trying. We're all for real feedback. The question is, What kind of feedback is correct? Had grades proved to work, I would have been for it. I would have been a fan of characters if it had been learning for the youngest children. If one had managed to show that it actually worked, I would have been a follower of it. But I'm against it, and that's because all research and knowledge in this area and because the people who work with these children -- the experts on children and learning -- say that it's a real loss to move in that direction. There are so many other exciting things we can do in the school research, such as developing new ICT-based teaching methods – such as: can allow computers to fix their teachers so that they can spend more time with their students – or develop even better, good, fortative feedback systems. But in this room we're going to have to discuss whether we're going to open up to trials with characters for the smallest children. My point of view is not ideological. My position is knowledge-based. I think that's very clear. A user does not need to search for a particular length of time in the research literature to see it. But the position of the Right Party and the Progress Party is ideological, because they don't care about that knowledge. When the representative Tveiten Benestad says that SV seems to think that the researchers have concluded once and for all, it shows that there is a hope, far inside the ranks of the Right Party and the Advance Party, that the researchers will once and for all give them justice in their ideological position. That's why this proposal is so important to put forward, because I just think that this government is threatening to open up – first a little bit, then a little bit more and then a little more – for trying in this area, because they want to get ideologically right. Then suddenly the Christian People's Party and the Left are in a very difficult situation. A party that has initially opted for and guaranteed the learning space that they should not open up to trials in the school has actually opened up to such an introduction, and so that in certain places around the country, children are exposed to this ideological experimentation that the right-hand side has now seen. Finally, I would like to invite the representatives of the Christian People's Party and the Left to look again at the proposal – it is reconciliation soon – and listen to the teachers and listen to the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e865	It is said here that policies should not be involved in the evaluation of different trials at school. Of course, policies are involved in the evaluation of trials at school. That's what the Education Directorate does, and the Ministry of Knowledge does, and the Minister of Knowledge does. We'll be there, for example. certainly not to open up to trials with pure boys and girls. We are not going to open up trials with pure Christian and pure Muslim classes – disparately – because we politically think it is wrong. It's possible that it would give better learning. I doubt it. It might even be interesting to have seen and learned from it, so that we don't introduce it in the future, but we're not going to open up attempts at it, because we don't want it politically. What is especially important in this matter is that there is a different perception of what is politically desirable in the government and in the Storting. Normally things work out, but this time there are two parties sitting in government, who want grades in high school in their programs, even if you turn like eels to avoid defending that position here in the main hall. It's in itself very special. In any case, they could be invited to defend their programmes, even though the Minister of Knowledge has two hands and says that the party's programme is not the government's programme, although both parties believe the same in their programmes. But the special thing here is that in the Biggest, there's a clear majority against grades in high school. We don't want that direction in school, just like we don't want the reintroduction of Spanish pipes, and we don't want the reintroduction of girls' and boys' classes. We just don't want the school to go in that direction. Then we think it's wrong to try it out, both because we know the answer to those trials, and because the students who are going to do those trials get a worse school during the period of the trials. The representative Iselin Nybø from the Left was in on it. This government has proposed to use test paragraphs instead of taking fair political struggles, as, in the case of snowmobile driving, it simply liberalizes a very high level of regulation by saying yes over the table to so-called trials, which is really a completely different policy from that adopted in the hall. There is every reason to believe that this practice can easily be the case when right-wing politicians in cities like Oslo and Bergen and others eagerly say in the media that they are ready to introduce grades in high school, only they are allowed to do so under a test paragraph. I am therefore also very disappointed with the Left and Christian People's Party, which went to the elections on a promise to stop grades in high school, and which now do not use this opportunity to put down their feet. It would have been very nice to have a clarification from the Left and Christian People's Party on whether they – if the government, in the same way as in the case of snowmobile driving and in other matters, use this experimental paragraph to introduce grades in the kindergarten in the municipality by municipality – will be in and put their feet down in the main hall, as was actually promised in the election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e876	I wanted to take the floor because the representative County Droid around what is trying to get into the Stortinget, and to try to gain experience in acquiring knowledge on a professional basis. There are two very different things. Trying to get to the Big One is an obvious measure of what you want to do. Trying one thing to acquire knowledge is something completely different, because then it might be different what you achieve with that knowledge acquisition. This case, as many have said, is not really about grades in fifth grade. It's about whether we're going to ban the trials that we ourselves don't think are right. The way the representative of Fylkesnes talks about research shows a good understanding of how research works, the nature of research and how to use the results that emerge. It is not that the research results are completed once and for all in this field. There is also research that points to the importance of clear and clear feedback, especially for weak students, and then we need to be open and not close the door in order to gain new experience through controlled trials, which this case concerns.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e883	The representative Geske asked why the Christian People's Party now wants to be involved and open up to attempts at grades. Previous questions were also asked to the Christian People's Party and the Left about how we can now help make sure that so many rivers now will have grades. We're not in on that. First of all, what we've said is that we have to separate the cards here. We need to look at what this matter is about. It has been repeated many times during the debate, and it is important to be clear. This is not a debate on yes or no to grades. There is a debate on whether or not to restrict the trial scheme. We don't think we should do that. It may be tempting to control the details, but we don't want to be involved. I have to repeat what we have said earlier in the debate, and as it also says in the comment: we assume that the attempts that are given the green light will be real attempts at a clear delimitation, both on time and on scale. We have confidence that the Council of State will handle this in a good way. I have to say that the signals we have received from the Council of State today go in exactly the same direction. That gives me reason to be sure it's a good decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e890	The representative Knag Fylkesnes says from the pulpit that the Left has gone to the elections that we are against grades in high school and against trials. The first one is correct because we're against grades in high school. But we've actually gone to the choice that we want trials in school in general, because we're not negative to trials in school. I think it's important to underline that. When it comes to the representative Giske's question about the recruitment of grades on a slightly larger scale, the left is quite clear that we don't want grades in high school. We expect the Council of State to follow up what is the opinion of the majority of the population, that there should be no introduction of grades in high school. I also heard the council say that you would not accept a snitching of grades. Should it be that we see the government doing what you did in the snowmobile case, that is, giving too many permits, the left will follow it up. We'll follow that up here on Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e898	The representative of Fylkesnes has spoken twice earlier in the debate, and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e901	The representative Vinje thinks I have a limited understanding of research. She thinks there's a lot more to research than I know. I can give the representative Vinje right if she can come up with one example of research that shows that grades in primary school are working well. Then I'll say, yeah, there you had a hunting point. So to the councillor, it was said that parents, teachers, elephants, etc. shall be heard before an intrusion. When Oslo, Drammen, Bergen and all the other municipalities applied for a trial a few years ago, had the students, the teachers, the parents and the school leaders been heard?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e908	I'll try to sum up the debate and also try not to extend it – but we'll see. Just to take one thing first: the representative Geske said quite correctly that there is a policy in the trials as well. But the new thing about practice, as the majority sees it, is that this proposal changes the policy around it, tightening it up. I can take a very specific example. I was myself a county politician in Akershus. We sought from the then Minister of Knowledge Kristin Halvorsen to be allowed to try with one character in the secondary and primary objectives of high school. There was in no way a majority in favour of the Storting. It did not represent in any way the programs of the then government parties, and it did not appear in the Soria Moria declaration. On the contrary, it was opposed in the Soria Moria Declaration. Nevertheless, the then Minister of Knowledge Kristin Halvorsen approved an experiment with it at a high school out in Bærum. The results are coming in now, and they actually look pretty good. This has been the practice for a long time. So the new thing about this proposal, if it were to be adopted, is to tighten up the possibility, also to approve things for which there is no majority in the Grand Duchy, or for which the party of the Council of State thinks for that matter. I believe that this debate actually reveals that there have been two debates. It also shows the exchange of lines with the Council of State. Because on the one hand, we can also discuss in this room a lot and for a long time whether it is right to introduce grades early in school. On the other hand, the debate for some of us is about tightening up on the trials. Both debates are both legitimate and interesting, but the Storting must decide what is the consequence of adopting the proposal for a representative. The consequence of the adoption of the proposal for a representative is to tighten up the experimental practices that have worked well under the changing governments and the alternating majority in the Grand Duchy and that have also allowed trials for which there has not been a majority in the Grand Chamber. That is why I am pleased that the majority of people are going to vote against the proposal, so that the practice that has shaped Norwegian school in a good way and for many years continues to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e919	I will also be brief, but I have to stress: I do not understand how it is possible for the Left – especially the Left, but also the Christian People’s Party – to be so opposed to introducing grades, and argue so well for why it is a bad idea, and at the same time be so to set up trial schemes. I don't understand. So to the right: even we don't get an answer as to why the Right believes it's a good idea to introduce grades in high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e926	Since I was challenged by Knag Fylkesnes to produce one research result that shows that it can be positive to have grades, it was therefore referred to Anna Sjögren, who produced a report on grades in primary school in Sweden. She based her research on the fact that Swedish municipalities in the 1970s had different practices when it came to grades, and she checked how it had been with students who had, and students who didn't have, grades in high school. Her conclusion was that grades benefit academically weak, socially disadvantaged children. She assumes that a possible explanation for this may be that quantitative written reports are particularly important for children whose parents are less confident or less able to extract relevant information from, subtle, qualitative, oral assessments. That being said, I have great respect for research. There are countless research results in this world that point in different directions, but what's most important in this case is to recognize that we don't have the answers with two lines below. Then it's important in this room to be open to maintain a valuable experimental system that we have. That's why I think the whole main point here is that we're not destroying the ability to find new knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e933	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e949	This is an interpellation on everyday policies, on how people who are totally dependent on Nav in their daily lives experience the meeting with the Labour and Welfare Act. It is an interpellation of administrative responsibility, but so much about political responsibility at large, government and local government, in order to achieve what is the goal, namely more in work and fewer in social security, and a good running process, whether it be small, simple or larger and more complex. Much water is clean in the sea since a unanimous collapse in December 2001 called on the government to address the issue of a single social, labour and social security unit. The organisational part of the reform has been introduced throughout the country. The benefit system has been simplified by bringing together reinsurance, rehabilitation and temporary disability benefits for one social benefit, work clearance benefits. This would simplify the procedure and improve the user. The individual’s needs were to determine the type of action to be taken, not the type of social benefits involved. The qualification programme is in place for those who are, or are at risk of becoming, long-term social assistance recipients. The new chance program has been transformed into Jobsjansen, with a special focus on immigrant women. Temporary wage subsidies shall allow for more opportunities to take advantage of their working capacity. From 2015 a new disability benefit will come, where it will be easier to combine disability pay and work. Retirement reform is largely implemented, with one important change being that you can combine retirement with work in a way that suits you best. Those who did not have the ability to work would also have to move to social security more quickly. People should not go to measures that were less meaningful and that ‘all’ knew would not lead anywhere. The resources were to be used for those who could have a professional life ahead of them. Where there were three doors in the past to the a-etat, social security and social services, and where people could easily be throwing balls between the systems, there is now one door — into a qualified first line. Users should thus get a simpler everyday life. Employees would have a more meaningful working day, where they would be allowed to work more than before in the social field, in close cooperation with local health services, specialist health services, education services, child protection, business, prison services, etc. – in short, all the important partners that could contribute, each in its own way, to a tailor-made arrangement for the individual user. Or maybe it wasn't quite like that? At least there's a lot of evidence that it doesn't always feel that way. The direct reason for this interpellation is the headline of the newspaper on 28 November last year. There, the newspaper put the search light on people's experiences of their meetings with the Nav offices. Slow procedural procedures and non-payments were two of the issues that were recurring. One of the stories that may have made the most impression is the story of cancer, John Rasmussen, who this summer told how he had to use a lot of energy to get hold of the case handler, while fighting for his own life. It's a lot of stories like that, unfortunately. But there was also another side to Nav that came out in these stories. The newspaper's headline contained not only negative user experiences, but also the good stories from people who felt well cared for. A bus driver who could no longer continue his job says that he – or maybe she – came to Nav and met only nice and polite case handlers. He says: "My case went through the system quickly, and I was very pleased. I had the feeling that everything was going on. Today I am a nurse." There are several such examples. In my own locality in Buskerud we could not so long ago read about Nav in Lower Eiker as in its latest user survey for 2013 got their best feedback ever. Users could tell that they greatly appreciate meaningful meetings with employees who have knowledge and are solution-focused. A large majority experience being met with respect, and they get the service they need. Users believe that the audience reception is open, attractive and transparent. Many describe good meetings where those who work at the audience reception are friendly and helpful. A large majority experience that the supervisor emphasises what they have to say and that they are helped to find good solutions in cooperation with the supervisor. More than in the past is satisfied with the counsellors' knowledge of laws and regulations. It must be very inspiring for the employees. It is certainly perceived as a spur to further efforts, because according to the head of the Nav office, there are also clear improvement points in the feedback they receive. Of them, Nav Lower Eiker himself counts as the most important, increased availability — through something as simple as reporting from where they are, and when they can be contacted — and more focus on labour rights. Here they go down a little, in fact, and believe that it is related to the pressure on the work clearance issues that will soon go out. They have a very informal and pleasant reception with friendly people in the front, but some users are so inspired by it that they tell a lot about personal relationships before some rows lead them into the supervisors, so privacy is now on the agenda. Like many other Nav offices, they have to work continuously with certainty, as some users are both intoxicated and aggressive. It's about personal safety, but it's also about protecting other users from noise and unpleasant experiences. I want to highlight one more positive case, and then I am back to the central hub. I am thinking in particular of the Nav-director's reaction to the newspaper's headline. Instead of going into a defensive position, he chooses to use people's experiences as a starting point for learning and improvement. But it is a duty: then there must also be results. One way to learn can be to look at the Nav offices that have good results to point to. One should now, according to the Nav Director, invest in better training in being a supervisor, strengthen training for new employees, emphasise ethics and good attitudes, establish better complaint management procedures and clarify that quality of service is a managerial responsibility. It is a matter of corporate culture, which should probably have been taken into account more clearly from the outset, when three different corporate cultures were to be merged into one – one rule-driven, one aimed at employment and business and one social sciences. There's been a lot of dragonfights between these different cultures, at least in the beginning – and maybe still. There has been, and may still be, a dispute of competence between the state and the municipality internally in Nav. Both special units and administrative units are gradually established far away from the first line. It's not in line with what the Biggest initially wanted. From our point of view, something has happened without our involvement. It must be allowed to ask the question whether it is part of the cause of some of the problems we face today. After the budget consultation in the Committee last autumn, we received at least input from employees' organisations about what they called the desire of powerful Nav offices. They indicated that many tasks have been transferred from the Nav office to administrative or pension units. The formal assessment of judgement in some areas has been transferred from the Nav office to other Nav units. This applies, inter alia, to: misappropriation. In addition, a practice has been put in place in many performance areas that deprives staff members of the Nav Office of the opportunity to assess good solutions. This concerns contact with both users and employers, as they expressed it. Before Christmas, the Workers' Party's fraction in the committee had a meeting with a major company in Hedmark. They told me about that. They're 50 employees, with a small administration. Nevertheless, they try to assist their employees in their contacts with Nav, for example: by paying the salary and receiving reimbursement of the Nav in case of search reports. But it's just that the money doesn't come in months. The company feels that Nav is demanding them fast delivery, but that Nav is not making the same demands on himself. They feel that papers get lost. When you receive feedback about sending more information, no one has signed it, they do not know who to contact. They don't know who they're talking to, and where they are, when they get to someone. They feel that different case handlers do things in different ways from time to time, to mention something. We who participated and adopted the Nav reform in its time also have a responsibility for the proper functioning of the reform. The councils were one of these. I have recorded that the Council of State has had quite blatant opinions about what should be done before he became the Council of State. The question is whether the Council of State is as clear now as what should be done. Anyway, in the government platform, a full review of Nav has been announced. That is why, in this interview, I ask how the Council of State sees this process to be carried out, administratively, but also on the action page, which milestones the Council of State sees for itself, how the results are to be measured, and how, and where appropriate, the size will be involved and informed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e986	Let me first thank the interpellant for raising a very important interpellant and a very important debate – a debate that we will certainly have in the future as well. Let me remind you of the three main points of the Nav reform. That's that. make it easier for users and adapt services to the needs of users to create a comprehensive and efficient management of labour and welfare, So we can ask ourselves the questions, have we achieved these goals? Did we get more people to work? Many suggest that we still have a long way to go to achieve the good results, get more people who are out of work, including in the workplace. Too many are still out of work. I'm very concerned that we're going to succeed much better in this area. I think it's sad every day I see people who have something to contribute, but who are not part of the working life. We have to make sure we succeed better here. Have we made it easier for users and adapted services to the needs of users? No, I think we all have to admit that we haven't. It's done a lot of good, but we still have a long way to go. Let me remind you that it was the previous government, a majority government, that carried out the Nav reform – where Nav was in the cast – from the beginning of 1 July 2006 until 16 October 2013. All decisions during this period were taken under a majority government. This was when it was decided to fragment in administrative units, special units, contact centres, etc., which has also made it impossible to obtain point 3, a comprehensive and effective management of labour and welfare. I am concerned that we have to succeed better in these areas, based on the user. That is why I think it is important to carry out a comprehensive review of Nav. Both user experiences and research-based results show that we are not in the goal of the three main pillars of the Nav reform, which was the very purpose of it. But I want to say that we're on the right track. I have, like the representative Christoffersen, had the pleasure of traveling a lot around and meeting users, both as councillors and in opposition. I can't say I've been lucky, but at least I've had the honour of being able to live close to parents with seriously ill children, parents who have shut their heads in our welfare system. It has made a strong impression on me. It has touched me, and it has caused me to ask myself the general questions. We have to get better at helping those who really need the help, in a better way. I have traveled around and met newly established people in the middle of the 30s, who have a new house, a permanent job and two small children, and who are on their way home from work in a serious traffic accident. Life is completely turned upside down. Which Nav do we want to meet these people? That's the question I ask myself every day. I have also met minors – young children – who have lost their parents. What rights do they have in our welfare system today? Which Nav will meet them? I don't think there are so many 11-year-olds who know they're entitled to a survivor's pension. Are we good enough to give them the right help, the right performance, at the right time? I've often stood here in the Storting and said no, I don't think so. I don't think so today either. That's why we're going to set up an expert committee to give us the good answers on how we can both organize and improve Nav, so that we get better at meeting users' needs in a better way. I am concerned that we must be more successful in getting more people out of work into the labour market. Then we have to dry up: how can we get more players, actors who are involved and both clarify, qualify and convey people into the workplace? The most important thing is that we get people into working life – not who helps them into working life – and that we get more into working life. This is also an important part of an overall review of Nav. Therefore, the government is looking at simplification of the response system and is following up on the big message that we withdrew. We will, of course, come to Stortinget with these matters when they are finished. I have strong ambitions to come to Stortinget with them during the spring or early autumn 2014. The expert committee that we are going to set up will look at how we meet the challenges and needs of the future. We see that the user groups in Nav change, become more complex. How are we going to ensure that we have enough competence in all the different sections of the Nav to meet users with complex needs? These answers also need to be drawn up by the expert committee. I don't think either of us in Stortinget or in government are the experts who can point out how it's going to be done, but I think we're the political experts to make the overall goals of how we want it to be, how we want this to work in the everyday life of people. That's why we need the help we need to get to that. Modernisation on the ICT side is something that is going on in a separate track, which you are doing well, and which has been taken into account in order to succeed in miscarriage reform on 1 January 2015. For me, it's important to make sure that we have a hub that provides proper help at the right time, proper performance at the right time, and provides everyone who can, and should be out of work, the opportunity to be out of work. Therefore, we also need to build on the competence that Nav has the good local knowledge of the local business community, so that we can better match the Nav candidates with the needs and challenges of business. We've been too bad there. We also need to see if we are going to create more authoritative, good, competent local offices. It's an important question that I think it's a good idea that such an expert committee looks at, and that they carefully assess how we can do it. It is also about making sure that we are able to help those with disabilities who every day need help. We've all met a lot of them, where the tools are broken. How can we ensure a smaller bureaucratic hub to get help to repair necessary aids in a much more efficient way, in a better way, without stopping and waiting times? These are big, important and ambitious questions. I am pleased that the Right Party government is the government that so clearly addresses these issues, which has ambitions to go through Nav in a holistic, good way to debureaucratise, but also to provide better user experiences and not least to ensure that we get better tools to achieve the three main objectives of the Nav reform: to get more in work and fewer in social security, a more coherent hub based on the needs of users and a better uniform organisation of our overall labour and welfare system. We will certainly get new questions and new issues along the way, because the user groups are changing. But then it's about being forward-looking, offensive and willing to change. I experience many skilled Nav employees every single day, because I have also been so lucky and entertained among many employees in both small and large local offices, who are enormously capable and good at finding the good solutions for the users. We also need to take that competence further into account in order to improve and strengthen Nav in a good way. Finally, the interpellant asks about how we are going to get back to Stortinget. We're going to come back with several different things. In the case of the expert committee that's going to propose improvements to give a better hub, we'll involve and orientate the Storting in natural ways. When it comes to getting more involved with simplified action systems, it comes up with its own issues. When it comes to a comprehensive review of welfare systems, there are also issues, so the Stortinget will – as the Stortinget has always been – be involved and properly informed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e1032	I thank you so much for your answer and look forward to the further debate. I have recorded that during the spring or early autumn we get a big message for discussion here in the hall. That's what I think to be positive, because a big message is a form that makes everyone have the opportunity to make recordings. When we get things done, a lot of trains have gone, so I hope we're on the way, for example. in the context of budgets and communications, the possibility of making good proposals for solutions to some of the challenges is given. As I said in my first post, the Nav reform has largely been implemented through unanimous decisions. The only thing I get on the road that the Progress Party was against in its time was the social benefits part of the qualification programme, i.e. extended social benefits if one qualified and participated in an obligatory scheme to qualify for further professional participation. The party of progress, as the only party, was in favour of state social assistance, otherwise I think we have largely agreed. The council raised the question of whether there was enough competence in Nav. I think we should also ask the question: is this the right competence always in Nav? I believe that social knowledge, knowing its own community, knowing its own regional business, is an important competence to have in a competent and authoritative first-line office in Nav. There I have repeatedly referred to the aha experiences of the labour and social committee two periods ago when we were in New Zealand and saw how they had set up the local so-called Nav offices there. They had job titles such as ‘work brokers’, which had one task, and it was to convey labour to the regional business community, with which they themselves were in daily contact and had good knowledge, both what opportunities existed and what qualifications they were looking for. At the same time, the large degrees of freedom in which they could apply to individual users had measures such as passports. she who could get a job in an office, but lacked clothes that fit in such an environment, that got a theme and heeled shoes at the state's expense, because she could then go to work on Monday. It might say a little bit about how we should also think: softening a rigid response system and giving greater degrees of freedom to the individual in an authoritative first line. Governments were also involved in ICT. I can't say that much about now, but it's an important prerequisite for getting better results in Nav and constantly driving that reform forward, that we have an up-to-date ICT system that allows you to communicate two-way with the users.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e1050	I am pleased that the representative Christoffersen is committed to bringing forward all these good proposals, the good ideas for solutions, and we shall facilitate that. I'm very receptive to all the good recordings, all the good ideas about how to improve Nav, make sure to get better user experiences in Nav and achieve the goals of Nav in a better way. At the same time, I know that the Nav system is also working hard for both simplification and better achievement. Improvements have been made gradually and considerably in recent years in a number of areas. I think we should take that with us too – that's good. So the interpellant points out -- I can't push myself -- that most decisions have been unanimous. Yes, in the major reform efforts there have been unanimous decisions, but there have also been quite a number of issues from the previous opposition in the Storting, both representatives' proposals and proposals in the budgets for both improvements related to fragmentation that has occurred, with the fragmentation of units, and in getting better user experiences. Also with regard to the follow-up of the National Audit Office, there have been good proposals from the previous opposition, which is now in position. Those proposals were again and again voted down. The fact that the current opposition now agrees with the previous opposition and brings the same questions to the agenda, I think it is very positive. That is very good, because at least we have a common starting point for making good improvement potentials for those who really need our work and welfare system – namely users – in a better way. The representative Christoffersen showed in his first post – which I was not going to touch, but which is an important topic – to the Nav Director's meeting with the users and to gain experience from users to convert Nav, in order to improve Nav. I'm also a very big fan of that. I think that's good, that's positive. I give the Nav Director all credit and support in that regard. So I think we politicians too should remind ourselves that if we are to be able to get these effects out and get more powerful Nav offices locally, get decisions taken in the right place and less bureaucracy, there is also a lot of legal changes that we have to make in this room in terms of welfare systems. I also hope that the Storting will take over and take with us when we bring the different issues, so you don't say yes to the good target images, but no to the means that are actually going to make us reach these good target images. It is important to take them into further treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e1061	Fixed-income jobs are, for most people, the foundation for living a safe, free and good life. It was just that we were going to help more people master their own lives, to be able to work rather than on social benefits, which was the background for the Nav reform. We should do it better for more people. It is important to bear in mind in this debate, too, that this was what the majority of people thought about the reform. The reform was and is large and extensive. It is the biggest administrative reform ever started. It was launched when the financial crisis came to an end too fully. It has therefore not been painless. The Nav employees were given a very demanding task by the political majority on the Stortinget. New tasks were connected to computer systems, which in no way could handle it all. The fact that Nav's employees have made and are making a formidable effort is beyond doubt. They have really carried the reform on their shoulders, and they deserve all our thanks today. When we know that Nav gets as much as 400,000 new cases every month and maybe five or six of them end up in the media with bad experiences, it also tells us that most people who turn to Nav are actually happy with how they meet, and with the follow-up they get. It's important to highlight. The previous government was also eager to allow the reform to take place, to ensure that the intentions behind the reform were better followed up, and to simplify the systems. Nav is about to become a learning organisation. Important steps have been taken to improve the efficiency and quality of treatment and follow-up in the system. The improvement of results is noticeable in several areas, and user satisfaction is increasing. The interpellant was in its speech about several of the measures taken by the previous government to improve the nav. It's so far from everything's in place. There is a need for improvement, especially when it comes to getting people to work. There is a need for stronger and closer follow-up. We see that Nav is still spending more time on follow-up – that's good. And although almost all statistics also show that an ever lower proportion of the population lives on social security benefits, we are not satisfied. It is also important that the new government follow up, so that this development continues. It is good that the Minister of Labour so clearly says that he wants to continue the work of stopping the time thieves, of simplifying Nav, and that he is ambitious on behalf of the Nav reform. We will contribute to this work. Therefore, it is also important that we constantly discuss developments in Nav in this room, and that we stop and see if things happen according to the intentions. In the last period, too, the Stortinget discussed the reform at one time in this Chamber. By June 2013 at the latest, when we discussed the representative proposal of the then big-time representative, now the Council of State, and other co-representatives of the Progress Party on a more comprehensive, effective and user-friendly Nav, where the current Council of State, the current big-time representative and his co-sponsors, promoted nine concrete proposals for quite extensive changes to the Nav we know. Among other things, it was a matter of: on the bundling of the State and Municipalities, equal to the State rate of social assistance, the pooling of offices and the introduction of Nav ombudsmen, in order to address something. It would also be interesting to hear what the Council today thinks about these nine concrete proposals. Will this be a kind of government action plan for a better hub? Is there any of these proposals he can now say that will be implemented, or any proposals he can certainly say that will not be implemented? The Council of State promoted these nine proposals in the Chamber last June. What, if any, is it that he believes that some of them are now not to be carried out or need more investigation through an expert committee than they did when the current Council of State, as a representative at the time, felt that these measures were over-exploited for implementation?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e1080	The Nav reform is the largest welfare reform in recent times, where municipalities and countries work together to provide services to citizens. The main objective of the reform was to increase the number of people at work and reduce the level of social benefits, to simplify services to users, to adapt services to the needs of users, and to provide comprehensive and more efficient labour and welfare management. In 2013, the Stortinget decided to ratify the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Nevertheless, disabled people still face barriers that prevent equal opportunities for activity and participation. The Government will work to follow up the Convention's intention to have a society with room for all, regardless of their function. The organisation guarantee is not a legal guarantee, but an instrument and a work methodology. The working methods shall be carried out by the Nav offices, the Nav Employment Centre and the Nav Utilities and Arrangements. A purpose of the organisation guarantee is to provide a coordinated offer to employers and employees who need the assistance of several units of the employment and welfare seat. When the Riksrevision examined Nav’s management of the organisation guarantee, there are some main findings that should be followed up. The organisation guarantee has not been used sufficiently, the content of the organisation guarantee is unclear, and Nav County has not given sufficient priority to the organisation guarantee. Management at the Nav offices follows up work on the scheme to a limited extent. The government's vision is a society where everyone can participate. Most people have education and work as their goal and expect to live a free and independent life. Provision must be made for disabled people in working life and daily life, both because society needs the labour force and so that the disabled person can participate in the community at work. For this reason, the government will work to strengthen the mechanisms to facilitate disabled people in the labour market. Nav Director Joachim Lystad believes that there are too many people who come in contact with Nav, who have bad experiences and experiences. Lystad wants to do something about this and will start a new training course in the guidance profession to improve the ability of employees to guide and chat with users, develop a new training offer for new employees, reintroduce new courses in ethics, such as: Takes into account human vision and Nav's value base, strengthens the work of complaint handling and sets new and clearer requirements for Nav's leaders. There have been challenges in Nav for many years. It is important to have clear objectives, instruments and effectiveness. Nav manages large amounts of money on behalf of society and there should be a link between appropriations and performance targets. It's about giving each of us the opportunity to work. The alternative is that many people get an experience of not being taken seriously if they are looking for a job. In this case, it may be appropriate to consider the creation of a Nav Ombudsman in order to follow up on those cases where the rights of a Nav user are not respected. ‘I’m busy with people and I’m busy with little bureaucracy. Call me a Rema politician: that's often the best thing," says Robert Eriksson to the VG. Councillor Eriksson says that the rules should be simplified, user experiences better, resources should be released, and a partnership between local government and local government should be developed, so that people get the right help at the right time. There are important points made by the Council of State in the interview with VG. The most important thing is probably that users of Nav services should be centred. A hub shall be created where user involvement is a central value. It is important that Nav connects more closely to business, but also to schools and immigration environments: Business because it is important to tailor Nav’s competence to business needs; school because there needs to be closer cooperation between Nav and school counselors in order to work with the drop-out challenges. Young people between the ages of 18 and 24 need to be guided into working life and not out of it; immigrant communities because the best integration policy is about getting people into work. Work provides the opportunity to learn languages, but also to establish social networks. In particular, immigrant women should be given the opportunity to get out of work or on a school bench. Knowledge provides an opportunity to live a life of independence. Nav has major challenges in the future at several levels, and substantial changes are needed to develop the organisation. It is about building a sustainable and robust organisational culture, developing a common value base from state to municipal level with employees who experience a sense of mastery in their everyday lives. It means an increased understanding of how to solve problems that individual users are struggling with. It means simple language and good language that everyone can read. And that means putting the user in the center and educating Nav staff who can guide people into working life and not out of it. It's about human dignity and individual solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e1121	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for taking up an important interpellant and also for the Council's response. I think one of the challenges you've seen for many years is that many of the visions around Nav have been mutually agreed on. The need for users to have one door to enter — instead of three doors — was an important reform. There was also something about the Progress Party for many years, and finally you got a good and – if I do not make mistakes – a unanimous decision in this room. But then, unfortunately, some of the challenge has been that the focus has been too much on the needs of bureaucracy and not necessarily on the needs of users. Over most of the years the Nav reform has now worked, the red-green government has been sitting, and it has administered the reform. I feel a little bit that the focus on the individual and on the business needs into Nav has been too little, and you've been too focused, as I started to say, on the bureaucracy. Over the years, we've had many examples of individual users who don't get the help and support they need from Nav. It's not because of the 19 000 employees in Nav, who do a good job, but it's because of the systems that, among other things, was created in this room. Several times, we also encounter internal procedures and internal rules and practices that are often not in line with common sense and which are seen as unnecessary bureaucratic. The media is good at giving us those examples, and I'm sure everyone in this room will also receive daily enquiries from people who are facing obstacles. Recent examples have shown that people who have amputated their legs must be able to prove that their legs are still amputated – or parents who have children with Down syndrome, that their child still has downs. It is the kind of example that shows that there is a real need for an efficiency improvement and a debureaucratisation of Nav. Then I am very happy that the government is now putting down a sample to modernise, streamline and red tape Nav, so that you can actually go back to much of what was the intention behind the establishment – a user-friendly hub that is for the inhabitants and for business – and that it is the primary goal. The primary objective should not be a red tape reform, but a user reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e1136	Honour the Left Interpellant, too, to put an important debate on the agenda. In retrospect, it is obvious that the Nav reform was too little foreordained and acted too quickly, and that we politicians turned expectations up to unrealistic heights, which of course have also necessarily affected the audience and added them to the Nav. Not least, the combination of a comprehensive reform with major organisational changes and little time and appropriate data tools has made the situation very demanding. The representative of the Trettebergstien said it was very nice, and I share the whole heart of the roof she carried until they added. The left is therefore very positive that the government will have a full review of Nav. Measures to which the Nav director warned in the previous newspaper, to which the interpellant referred, I do not believe is enough to address the basic problem: a development that is moving towards more and more schematicisation and centralisation of decision-making, which after centralization is being too specialised, and for the public very often removes management units – an organisation that too many represent an unsurpassable, almost unsurpassable bureaucracy. So after Left's view, a review of Nav at least needs to evaluate: turning the Nav pyramid on your head and giving the first-line service more decision-making than is the case today; opening up for greater use of understanding and making individual adjustments. Even small changes towards greater flexibility would probably solve several things in a more flexible, more humane way. Is there a risk of greater discrimination? No, on the contrary. Treats everyone equally, treats everyone differently, because we have different needs; introduces a right to have direct communication with the case handlers who are in the final decision-making image. Using communication more or less on the basis of intermediaries, tutors and written representation can in no way be the right way for the community’s most important security network to show empathy and care when we are very often in a difficult, vulnerable situation; doing what we can to ensure that Nav gets computer systems and solutions that the complexity, tasks and working situation of the addees require. Summaries of one word: simplification. The commitment shown by the Minister in the Chamber today suggests that the review of Nav is a high priority. The left will not sit passively and wait too long. If necessary, we would like to make more than one suggestion in this room to contribute to the progress of such an important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e1164	Getting one door instead of three doors into Nav is much better. I'm very pleased to hear the other speakers who are here, who have also said that the adaptation we now have to do, we all agree, and it's in place. It is quite clear to me, too, that Nav has too much bureaucracy. We have some things we have to clean up. We have to do it better for the users. I'm also very pleased to hear the Council of State say from the pulpit, a short time ago, that we need to have a good local office. I think that's also true. It is very important that we have local offices in each municipality, especially in the districts. The tax administration made a change a few years ago, where they cut a lot of local offices. In Finland, for example, this leads to: an employee must take a journey from Honningsvåg to Alta in three and a half hours one way. Both roads will be seven hours, there will be an entire working day just to get details on a tax card, for example. We can't have it that way. It costs too much, and it is not useful for Nav users – to use it as a comparison. We must not have fewer offices and larger offices. This results in poorer service provision, it is not good for the people, and it is especially not good for people in the districts. I'll turn an extra tone for just this moment in the job we're going to do, and the investigations that are going to be done, and what we get back here. Fewer offices – to close it – do not give a simpler door for help. It rather gives a bunker to provide, and perhaps it's a day's journey away.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e1176	I would like to thank the representative of Christoffersen for addressing an important issue – a good interplay with important challenges – and thank the Council of State for a very good and complementary response. It is particularly nice to see that the Workers' Party now – after having been in government for eight years – has finally been interested in a proper review of Nav. The starting point for Nav is the welfare reform introduced in 2006, after dealing with several major issues in Stortinget. Several reports have been written about Nav. Many concrete suggestions for improvement have been written. I can mention, for example: Rokkansenteret, who wrote a report dated May 2008. There are several master's tasks in sociology, including: one from Camilla Grung in 2008, and another from 2008 was written by Iren Johnsen. Everyone deals with Nav's organisation and operation. The Arbeitsforskningsinstitut has written a report in 2009 and the Kaasa Committee gave its NOU in 2011, NOU 2011: 17. In other words, there has been no lack of warning lights – there has been no lack of signals that things are not working as they should – and everyone has blinked and blinked, while the interpellant party traps have been in government and have done, I shall not say anything, but unfortunately very little. Now, fortunately, we have a Right Party government that both can and will review Nav. As the Council of State has stated, Nav will be subjected to a full review, and the objective of course is to red tape of the network for users. It's to help more people get from social security to work. Just the workline is very important for the Right Party Government. The government has a clear ambition to get more people to work. Work is important for individuals, but it is also important for employment and for society as a whole. I would also like to say one more thing that the representative Lise Christoffersen – interpellant – mentioned about corporate culture. It should have been taken long ago, it has Christoffersen quite right in, but then unfortunately was not the Right and Advance Party in government. But as soon as we get into government, we're about to drop a sample. I have full confidence that the Council of State will start a job and find candidates who will do a brave job, come up with concrete measures and are willing to point out effective measures that will really improve Nav for users. Because that's after all the users Nav is for.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e1193	I would like to thank all those who have engaged in the debate. In a three-minute post, you don't get into everything that has been said, but I have at least noted diligently, and I expect that there are also several others who have. I strongly urge you to make some comments on the issue of ICT and modernisation and red tape of Nav. I registered that the last speaker said that we now have a government that is both capable and willing, and the Council of State is to the extent challenged by the representative of Anette Trettebergstuen as to whether the nine proposals for changes are ready for implementation, or whether it should be investigated and perhaps considered a little more carefully. In the case of ICT, it's the key to everything here. Even I've worked in the Department of Social Affairs before, and I think we got off to the edge of the jump already in the 1980s, when someone couldn't decide whether to choose Infotrygd or Nortrygd, and chose both solutions. And then one later got the challenges with all the different municipal systems. Then I want to point to Rigmor Aasrud as the Minister of Renewal and her ongoing project to co-operate and choose standardised solutions on the ICT page throughout the public sector. I think that's absolutely necessary. I also think the council should write behind the ear that it might be an advantage to look at Rigmor Aasrud's program from last summer. 45 measures were easy for a more efficient public administration, at least seven of them related to Nav. One example was the digitisation of the parental pension system. There are 550 000 calls to Nav this year on the basis of parental leave, and most people are wondering how to fill out the form – an obvious potential for improvement. She had also listed legal remedies, transparency of her own case, incomes automatically transferred from the employer, not providing documentation several times, cf. what has been said here about people with, for example: Down's syndrome or amputations that don't get a different diagnosis, but may need changes and increases in the benefit. It's an important moment, and it can solve it digitally. In the case of sick messages and multiple collection and submission of documentation – the same type of documentation – a saver and was one of the measures proposed by Rigmor Aasrud and account details and change of account number and stuff like that can be saved. I've noticed that Jan Tore Sanner has today gone out and resold Aasrud's modernization program as an innovation, so I expect that one will also include the things relating to Nav. Finally, the simplest is the best. I think we should reflect on whether we should have a small provision in the People's Security Act that anything that is better for the user and cheaper for the public is legal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e1208	Once again, thank you to the interpellant who has put an important issue on the agenda, and thank you to all those who have participated in the debate and made good and important contributions to the further process. So it's like -- as I said in my main post -- that there's a lot of users who have complex challenges that make you think about new solutions. It is right that the representative of Christoffersen points out that ICT is important. But ICT itself is not enough, if you don't also have a modern, adapted law for the reality that people live in. It also has to take over. I was challenged by the representative Trettebergstien. Yes, the Progress Party submitted a proposal for a representative which was discussed last spring. The Government shall have an overall review of Nav. The representative proposal was a proposal for a comprehensive review of Nav in terms of its user perspective, red tape, efficiency improvement and better userachievement. That's what the government needs to do. So to the proposals that are pointed out that would be natural to run through an expert committee and that were also addressed at the time in the draft representative. Eight of the nine points we have discussed here today in this interpellation debate. Both what goes into the official Nav office, what goes into the pooling of offices, and the question of how we're going to make the partnership work better and more coherent, we've been through, and Nav representatives we've been through. I have not concluded, I will admit that, and I am not sure that just following the model to the patient representative is the right model. It may also be the model that Oslo Municipality is already running, which will be right for several Nav offices, or it may also be the way Sweden has organized it, as they call the jungle aid. Here, through an expert committee, we want to see how we can get the best solutions that work best for the users we have in our work and welfare system. The suggestions that are pointed out, I could take one after another – they have been discussed here today and they belong naturally in a comprehensive review of Nav. So I'd like to end by saying that we're coming back with different things. If someone thought it was a big deal about Nav coming to the fall, that's not right. We're going to set up an expert selection before Easter, and they're going to have some time to work on. But what we are going to do during the fall is a big message and action to get more people to work – considering the message we drew – so that we are precise about it, and that there are no misunderstandings. Once again: Thanks to the interpellant, I look forward to good debates around Nav also in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e1223	The debate on substance is closed. 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e1237	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e1251	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e1265	No one has asked for the floor. After it was ringing the votering, she said.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e1270	Let's go to voting. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e1281	During the debate, a proposal was put forward by Mr Knag Fylkesnes on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to continue the regulations of the Training Act which say that there is no possibility of being rated with a grade in primary school up to and including 7th grade and that there is no opening of trial schemes with grades in early childhood.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e1310	In the case of cases No. 4–6 are the second time legal proceedings. There are no comments on any of the cases. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-11.ana.ud364e1352	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
