ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e26	The representatives of Odd Omland, Kari Kjønaas Kjos, Gunvor Eldegard, Toril Eidsheim, Fredric Holen Bjørdal, Margunn Ebbesen, Michael Tetzschner, Christian Tybring-Gjedde, Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, Tina Bru, Helge Thorheim and Irene Johansen, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. The following called alternates have taken their seats: for the Aust-Agder counties: Lene Langemyr for Buskerud counties: Christopher Wand for More and Romesdal County: Geir Inge Line for the South-Trundellag County: Torhild Aabergsbotten for Eastfold County: Tone Damsleth Two permit applications are available: on the leave of the representative Morten Wold on 29 and 30 January to attend meetings of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg of the Central Party on sick leave of the representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien from 29 January onwards and until further notice These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The following alternates are proposed to meet during the leave period: For Buskerud County: Tone Heimdal Brataas For the Uppland State: Ivar Odnes – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Tone Heimdal Brataas and Ivar Odnes are present and will take the seat. The representative, Mr Breivik, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e125	On behalf of the signatures and Ketil Kjenseth, I am delighted to present a proposal for the establishment of a national broadband plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e130	The representative Iselin Nybø will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e133	On behalf of the representatives of Abid Q. Raja, Sveinung Rotevatn and myself, I would like to propose a change to the Criminal Procedures Act and the Penal Code for the Use of Police Penalty.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e138	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e150	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. The President will draw attention to the fact that seven main questions have been raised today, and that we should therefore keep a little tight track of the follow-up questions in order to keep the time frame. The first main question is from the representative Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e159	There has been a lot of attention around the government's proposal to give doctors access to reservations about referring women to abortion. It is an important matter in itself, but it becomes even more serious by the fact that it merges into a wide range of issues where in a short time the government has weakened Norwegian family and gender equality policy. For the first time in very many years, kindergartens are becoming more expensive in this country from the turn of the year. For the first time in very many years, there will be fewer children in kindergarten. The government canceled the government's proposal for two kindergarten admissions this year. It's done cuts in the paperwork. It retains tax class 2. And it both increases and – more seriously – warns to extend the cash support to include a whole new year’s coal. In addition, the government will weaken women's right to self-determined abortion. This is a whole new line of Norwegian family and gender equality policy. It's a line that takes Norway in the wrong direction. It leads to less equality between women and men. It contributes to less integration of immigrants. And it makes working less profitable, and thus the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy is weakened. In addition, we know from extensive research that children in kindergarten get a better start in education and school. When there are now 7 000 fewer children in kindergarten, as a direct consequence of government policy, it also contributes to a decline in the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy because of a deterioration in knowledge investment. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: Does the Prime Minister really think that more expensive kindergartens, fewer children in kindergarten, cut in paperwork, increased cash support and weakened opportunities for women to have the right to self-determined abortion are good family and gender policies?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e180	I believe that the government conducts a good, offensive and significantly better equality and family policy than the previous government. We have taken seriously the challenges faced by many families who do not have a lot of rights, among other things. increasing one-off aid, which improves the situation of those girls and women who have not earned their rights. We contribute to a better basis for children in the field of child protection by increasing the level of funding and ensuring that they receive appropriate and good schooling. Our commitment to competence and knowledge, which is solid and significantly greater than that of the previous government, also helps all women get a better starting point. I mean, for example. that in the context of a gender-based labour market, a topic such as real-time vocational training will be extremely important, because we know where the differences are between women and men. It is also about where you work in the labour market. When we have a higher level of competence in the health and care sector, which is also included in this budget, it goes directly to a number of women-dominated jobs and contributes to more knowledge and skills there. We have a different policy than the red-green government, but that doesn't mean we don't have a good gender equality policy. So to the question of abortion law: We do not propose any weakening of the abortion law. The right of reservation or of reservation, as we have designed it, does not weaken any woman's right to abortion. Everyone has the right to get it. The self-determined right to abortion before 12 weeks is solidly upheld by these proposals as well. The question is whether the women who want abortion and a referral from their permanent staff must be able to get to the doctor with certainty that the doctor is not a doctor who has made a reservation. In that case, the woman should be able to know that the doctor has done so. Saying that this is a weakening of abortion rights is exaggerating what the discussion is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e201	Prime Minister – no, representative Jens Stoltenberg. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e204	Thank you very much, President. It's getting hotter! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e209	It's always nice to be able to meet someone's dreams.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e212	Saying that this is a small question, I believe is a very serious error in the question of booking access. It's important both in principle and in practice. I believe that, in principle, it is very important that we are clear that the rights of the woman are more important than the doctor's need for reservation. I think that's important not least in a society where there's going to be more cultures, more religions in more and more professions, that the public is clear about it. I have great respect for the fact that abortion is an important issue of conscience, but that is what I believe to be at home in Stortinget, as a national decision-making issue, not a question that the Stortinget can delegate to the Norwegian local government, where one must therefore experience that there are very different practices in different municipalities in relation to this issue of conscience. Women's rights are weakening because it makes it more difficult for many women to access the counselling, the information, which will be given to those seeking abortion.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e217	I have not said that this is a small question. I have said that it is not a question of abortion rights. They're stuck. All women in Norway have the right to decide for themselves whether to end a pregnancy before the 12th week. All women in Norway have the right to be treated well with their doctors, and that is why this proposal has put women’s rights ahead of doctors’ rights. Therefore, it is not a reservation right, but a reservation option, provided that all the things are in place to meet women properly. That's why you have to be able to refer to another doctor within one working day, that you don't have to go to the doctor who's reserved, if you have an abortion request. For this reason, all women — and men in and on their own — who are on a regular list are required to have information about their doctor’s reservations. Therefore, it should not be possible for a doctor to use this reservation option unless the guarantees for the woman are in place. That is exactly what is in the consultation proposal, so I hope now that Jens Stoltenberg has discovered it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e222	There will be five follow-up questions – first Helga Pedersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e225	We can confirm that the government has turned the clock back into family and gender policy. I would like to repeat the main question to the Prime Minister. Does she mean that more expensive kindergartens, fewer kindergartens, stopping two kindergartens a year, and proposing a right of reservation for regulars who make it more difficult for women to have their patient rights fulfilled; does the Prime Minister believe that it promotes or inhibits gender equality in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e231	We haven't increased the nursery rate. We have adjusted it in the same way as the previous government had to adjust prices for a few years. That means that for families with children it's actually the same thing as it was last year, it's just price adjusted. That is why I believe that the children's home page has a good offer next year. We have a better offer for those families who want to choose something else. In the world of thought of the Workers' Party there is only one choice: what the Workers' Party has decided is right. In our world, there are actually families who can make their own decisions, who can make their own choices, and that does not mean that we are building down equality or weakening family policy. We just see that single families, single children, can experience other care situations as good and equal. There's a difference in Norwegian politics, and that means that many women actually experience what we do is to strengthen their rights, the right to actually be at home with the child in a maternity leave, because that's what the family wanted, that's what the women wanted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e236	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e239	The question should have been asked to the representative of Stoltenberg, but that is not the case, so the question may go to the Prime Minister. Does the Prime Minister think that the family has a self-esteem, or does she agree with the premise that underlies Stoltenberg's question, that perhaps the family is primarily a production unit to help promote growth in the Norwegian economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e246	I believe that the aim of the policy is people. The target is not gross domestic product. The goal of politics is people and people's best, and I believe that one of the most important things we humans have is the relationship with other people. That's why the family of course has a self-esteem. The family is an independent, important part of human living well, no matter what type of family you have, whether that family type is of different types of sex, whether it is with or without children, or whether it is just close friendship. But it is very important that we make sure that we have room for people to have time for each other, and that children have an opportunity to grow up with closeness and a good relationship with their immediate parents. That's why I believe that the family has an independent value, both as a framework for children's growth and as a framework for adults' own lives, and we should perhaps put more emphasis on it in the future policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e251	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e254	When Kjell Magne Bondevik was Prime Minister, the Right-State Council Ansgar Gabrielsen carried out one of the most important equality policy interventions in the last decade by imposing 40 pst on the boards of listed AS and state enterprises. representation of both sexes. There were loud protests in the Right then, and at the top of the shelf choir stood the current councilor Torbjørn Røe Isaksen. It is the Prime Minister who has the overall responsibility for the composition of the government and the overall composition, so my question to the Prime Minister is: why is it more important that we have a broad gender representation in AS boards, in state companies, than that we have it in political direction in the departments?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e259	In the right, we're not the principal follower of quota, which you're obviously in other batches. We've thought that we're still going to have the law we have with the ASA regimes, but at the same time we also see that it has had negative effects. In fact, there are some companies that have been taken out of the company because they have not wanted to meet the requirements for sex quota, or because for other reasons they have thought that the ASA form is not the right form of company in the future. In terms of government relationships, we've been working on – and we're still working on – having a good distribution of women and men. There's a little bit different recruitment of women and men for politics. As I have said to the Stortinget earlier, I wish we had found even more women who were even more capable than any of the men we have, but at the time we are now -- with a proper relationship between sex, geography, age and the other -- we have found a mix of those we believe are the best we have, in the departments we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e266	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e269	The left probably believes that both kindergarten, abortion law and allowances have also been important instruments for Norway to become as much a country as it has become. I will not ask about the right of reservation. I have a strong feeling that I've discussed it with the Prime Minister before. I'd rather ask about our working life, which is still quite sexual. It is still marked by the fact that we have a labour market there, for example. a lot of the founding is done by men, often because there are lower social rights for entrepreneurs than for employees, and thus there are very many women who are hesitant to bet on the ideas they have for creating jobs. We also see that wages are different, not according to the length of education, but according to the type of education. My question to the Prime Minister is: does she have a strategy, both for how to get more equal pay in Norway and for how to ensure that more women dare to pursue their ideas, create a business and feel that they have the same social security as they have as workers?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e278	I agree that both of these conditions are important. They are related to the fact that Norway, if we go back to the 1970s, had one of Europe's most remote sex-shared labour markets. It has become a little better in recent years, but there is still much more gender divide in Norway than in many other countries. Then it is also a paradox that while we want more entrepreneurs, we know that most women are educated in areas where the founding is particularly difficult, because the public is the biggest demander for ideas and solutions and, in addition, drives and finances it. That is why we see that there is a great deal of entrepreneurial activity, for example. among women who wish to operate their own companies in the field of home help services and who operate in the field of health protection. I think that just being more concerned with innovation and innovation and a little less concerned about who is doing things in the health sector will mean more female entrepreneurship in Norway, because there are many women there who want to do things in their way in dealing with patients, but who are not allowed, because it is so difficult to enter as private in terms of some health services.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e283	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e287	In NOW 2008: 6, gender and pay, pointed out the selection – which was broadly composed, with representatives from both the LO, the NHO, the Academics, etc. – that there was a strong link between the difference in pay between women and men and free or affordable kindergartens, paperwork, cash support, etc. Therefore, the measures proposed by SV and the red-green government followed up by moving towards cheaper kindergartens, reduced cash support, reinforced paperwork, etc. Now this government is moving in the opposite direction, so my question is: how will the Prime Minister and the government prevent the actions they are now taking, which will prove to increase the pay gap between women and men – how will they prevent this from happening?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e292	I think the representative has to qualify that it ‘probably’ will result in greater differences in salary. Our overall policy – such as: is based on a high level of real-life vocational training and knowledge, which is a career path for teachers, which is a large female-dominated profession, which involves raising the level of competence in the care sector, which means that more women are to be able to continue their education and to take more education in those sectors — actually contributing to higher wages. The highest pay gap in Norway — it also shows these surveys — is between groups of three to four years of higher education. This is due, inter alia, to: the long-term nature of wage and salary settlements, the number of low pay supplements provided, but not the group where the pay gap is greatest, namely nurses and teachers versus others with equal levels of education. There are almost 22pst wage differences in Norway. according to these studies. I believe then that our strategies – ensuring that more girls choose untraditional but also quality and career paths for the large women’s groups in the public sector – will actually help to make wage developments different from theirs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e297	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e300	Educational spokesmen in the Right, Kristin Vinje, have arranged for children to start school when they are five years old. She has said to the Evening Post that this will make better use of the children’s learning potential and that early schooling can contribute to increased value creation. In today's class struggle, Minister of Knowledge Torbjørn Røe Isaken also opens up to shift schooling, starting when you're five years old, and ending when you're 15 years old. Professor of pedagogy Stein Erik Wolfund strongly warns against such a development, and he says to the newspaper on 28 January that schooling for four- and five-year-olds can create greater differences between the children and, in the worst case, harm the development of the child. He is also supported by Professor Peder Haug. There is research that shows that human learning skills are greatest in the early years of life, but it is not that children are dependent on institutionalised learning and formal learning requirements to develop. Kids learn a lot before they start school. The learning takes place through play on the premises of children and in interaction with other children and adults both in kindergarten and at home. I believe that the five-year-olds must be allowed to be children without formal learning requirements being imposed on them by the state. My question to the Prime Minister is whether she can guarantee that the government will not propose school start-ups for five-year-olds, and whether the Prime Minister shares the Christian People's Party's view that children of four-year-old age should be free of formal learning requirements, as well as learn and develop through games that take place on their own premises.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e307	I think I can guarantee that we're not going to propose schooling for five-year-olds during this big time period. It's not in our program. I see Kristin Vinje's play as a contribution to the major school policy debate that the Right will have in the future: what are the next steps? We have an ambitious plan for this four-year period that we're going to stretch far to complete, and it's not about schooling for five-year-olds. But then, as a party, we are going to discuss – because we have ambitions to be a party that also discusses future solutions: what is the next step after we have made sure that we take the great teaching promise and have increased the prestige, after we have provided five years of teacher training, after we have established the career paths, after we have also made sure to raise the quality and early efforts in school everyday life, after we have taken the professional and all the other things that are on the list of what we have gone to choose on? So I think it's very important that we also discuss what happens before school starts, or when you're under six, because learning in those years is important. One of the historical distinctions in kindergarten policy in Norway up to 1989 – I know that I'm starting to sound old to someone here when I say that – was the distinction between the left, which was most concerned with women going to work and therefore wanted a full-time kindergarten, and the right side, the time including the Christian People's Party, which was occupied by the fact that kindergarten was a pedagogical offer and therefore was to be built first for children over three years of age, and not necessarily as a full-day offer. In 1989 we agreed that we could merge this and provide both parts at the same time, and we have had an agreement on full child-care coverage as ambition since that time. Then I am concerned that the content of kindergarten can also have meaning for learning. I know, for example. that some children who have gone to kindergarten are not qualified to attend school after studies because they do not have sufficient conceptual skills. Therefore, we might need to have a broader view of how the content of kindergarten helps one to learn, that one has a good enough conceptual device when one starts school.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e314	Thank you for your reply to the Prime Minister. She refers to a major ongoing debate on school and education. There have been several proposals on the table concerning the smallest children. Vinje has arranged for school start-ups for five-year-olds, while the NHO wants mandatory kindergarten for five-year-olds — including those with formal learning requirements. But there is one perspective of children's learning that has been surprisingly little attention around, and that's the role and importance of parents. Insofar as we hear about the parents, it is largely that there are some parents who are unable to follow up well enough. The solution to that problem will be very rapid for the public to have to take responsibility, either through previous school start-ups or through compulsory kindergarten. I wonder if this is also the philosophy of this government. My question to the Prime Minister is what she thinks about parents as a resource for children's learning and development, and whether the government will do something to involve parents more and make better use of this resource.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e319	I think parents are the most important resource in children's lives. It is incredibly important that the school also uses parents, is in active dialogue with parents, and ensures that parents are a good partner. I've been to schools that have done this completely systematically. I was at Nylund School in Stavanger a few years ago and met the principal, who said: we have three equal players in the learning environment here – we have the parents, we have the teachers and we have the children. He said that if the parents did not meet at the parents' meeting to join in learning this, he called every parent who had not been there, and had a conversation with them. Then we should not underestimate that parents have different resources. That means that we also need to focus on how we compensate where parents don't have enough resources to help their children. It's an important work against social inequality -- not to bring down the families that have parents who can really help their children, but to lift up those who don't. We actually have to take that seriously into both kindergarten and school.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e326	It opens for four follow-up questions – first Kjell Ingolf Roppstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e329	Thank you for the good answer from the Prime Minister. I would also like to say that in the debate on whether to have a compulsory kindergarten for older children or to have a previous school start, one argument is raised – that is, children with a migrant background need language training and need better integration to succeed in school. I think that's an important point, but it can be solved in other ways than by compulsory kindergarten or previous schooling. It's actually like a lot of people have tried out free kernel time. In Oslo, among other things, five urban parts, at least, which have tested free core time. It has been evaluated, and the evaluation shows that in these districts there are now more children going to kindergarten, and it also produces better results later. Is there a possibility that the Prime Minister will look at – that is, that the government is expanding the use of free core time?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e336	This is one of the themes that we need to discuss in the future. We have a long list of measures, which of course costs money. I want to say that it is very important that immigrant families know how important it is to have a good conceptual device, a good understanding of Norwegian, before you start school. There are some measures to be taken. I know that at least in Alna City they took a very intensive action a few years ago, with a very good result: they actually went and talked to all those who were parents of children who did not go to kindergarten. As a result, these children went to kindergarten afterwards, because they had had the conversation about how important the last few years in kindergarten are as a basis for going to school. Instead of standing a little distance and moralizing over immigrant families, maybe it's meeting them and talking about how important it is to be able to do well in school that you've gone to kindergarten, that you've got a good offer, an equally good way to go. This is because kindergarten is not necessarily the place to come from. However, it may be important that we meet the ambition of all parents, namely that the children should do well in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e345	Rigmor Aasrud – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e349	I have heard carefully what the Prime Minister has answered the questions that have been raised today. There's a lot of interesting reflections you can do over it. I wish the Prime Minister had perhaps heard a little bit more about the Christian People's Party in getting enough kindergartens, and not just listening to the Christian People's Party in other contexts, because nowadays it ticks in messages from the municipality after the municipality where there are not enough kindergarten places. In Oslo it's over...
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e356	The main question is age at school.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e359	I intend to ask the Prime Minister whether it would not have been more important to have a high focus on having enough kindergartens or on compulsory kindergartens – before starting the job of having a lower age at school.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e364	Of course, full babysitting will be a priority before we lower the school age. As I said, from 1989 there has been a unanimous growth that has been behind the ambition of full child-care coverage. We're also going to work on that. I've listened to the Christian People's Party. The only reason why there are fewer kindergartens established in this budget is that we have a deal with the Christian People's Party. The estimate is that there is a need for fewer nursery places, because with increased cash support, a little more parents will be at home with the child. Then, of course, is not the discussion about whether the one-year-old is going to go to kindergarten, the same as school preparation for the five-year-old. I don't think I know about any five-year-olds in Norway who haven't had kindergarten. Full childcare coverage for children over three years of age has been in Norway for very many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e373	Iselin Nybø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e376	Both the debate on early school leaving and the debate on compulsory kindergarten bottoms in the desire for early work where we see the need to bet in the past. Mari Rege at the University of Stavanger has pointed to several things that are important in this regard. Among other things, she points to this with several preschool teachers. She says that early efforts are important both to balance social differences, differences in mathematics, language skills, etc., and to give young people a better life later – that we can address the challenges that are, as early as possible. My question to the Prime Minister is: What measures will the government take to get more pre-school teachers? In fact, pedagogics among the youngest are no easier than pedagogics among the elderly. It is important that we have pedagogical staff in kindergartens in Norway, which many municipalities struggle to get enough of.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e385	We're going to keep working for more people to choose to become pre-school teachers, and set up educational places that allow us to follow up. In addition, the government platform states that we are to introduce a standard of personnel in kindergartens by 2020, which was widely agreed in Stortinget before the summer. All municipalities have to deal with this standard, which they now have time to establish, or make plans to introduce. There are many questions about recruiting pre-school teachers, which are not directly the responsibility of the state, but are about wage negotiations and others around the municipalities. I respect that it is the municipalities that do, and not we.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e392	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e395	The main question in this matter is the educational provision for five-year-olds. Today it is the arena of kindergarten. The question that was raised is, shall this also be the arena of the school? In this context, it is surprising that the Prime Minister says that there may be pedagogy in kindergarten. Kindergartens are a decisive learning venue for the youngest children. I mean, time is ripe for not only hitting a blow for kindergarten education, but also celebrating the success of kindergarten education, understanding him and getting into him. From such a perspective, there is a great reason to worry about developments in the municipality of Oslo, the lighthouse of right-wing policy in Norway, where kindergarten teachers flee from kindergartens because, when they are privatized and they get poorer pay and working conditions, they see no reason to continue in this profession. If you really want to have a good educational offer for the youngest, it is a bet for kindergarten teachers. How should the Prime Minister follow up developments in Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e404	I fully agree that a pedagogical offer in kindergarten is important. Historically, as I have pointed out many times now, this was the motivation for us to be involved in expanding, significant, kindergarten provision for the oldest children first, at a time when the debate between the left and right sides was that the left side was most concerned with the fact that the most women were going to go out to work, and that we therefore had to have full-time kindergartens, while the other side – the one I represent – was concerned with the fact that kindergarten was a pedagogical offer, which would help to develop the children. After that time we have managed to merge the two things, but I don't have to be moralizing to those who have always thought that giving a good educational offer in the kindergarten has been a priority. There is no evidence that private kindergartens have a worse educational offer than public kindergartens. On the contrary, the level of satisfaction in the provision of private kindergartens is high in all the surveys carried out. The educational offer and variations are greater there than, for example: in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e411	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e415	The whole country has followed the great fires in Lærdal and Flatanger for the last week and has felt with those who have happened. Fortunately, life has not been lost, but the damage is great. Many individuals and families have faced major challenges in a difficult life situation. You and your local authorities need to get the help they need. Local preparedness is an important theme. In Norway, proximity has been an important principle in the organisation of preparedness. The centre party believes in building society from below even when it comes to preparedness. We have to start from what works, and build on it. This is not the sort of selection that would suggest to the government. The number of 110 centres should be reduced from 19 to 12. 295 independent fire services should be collected and centralised in counties. The number of police districts should be cut from 27 to 6. The number of officers' offices should be cut by 144. We can merge the courts, from 66 to 30. A large-scale centralisation is the conclusion of a number of governmental selections that have assessed the police, preparedness and judicial organisation in Norway. The small word 'robust' is used as an argument behind all the conclusions. The trade environments need to be grouped into much larger units in the largest cities to be robust enough to meet the challenges, writing one selection leader after another. Robust for who – for people or for directorata? It is not easy to understand what the small word 'robust' means, but when accidents are out, as in Laerdal and Flatanger, it was undoubtedly the local firefighters, in close cooperation with police, civil defence, health professionals, municipal guidance and volunteers, who constituted the robust defence against the flames. My question is: what does the Prime Minister put in the new political word 'robust' in the emergency context?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e430	I may not be able to give a content of opinion to the word ‘robust’ based on investigations that have been partially ordered or started under the previous government. Both the two major investigations, the police analysis and the fire study, are out for consultation. The government hasn't started summing up how this structure should be, but we're going to go through all of the signals that have come. I have not used the word 'robust' in that context at all. I want to say that the representative Navarsete has some very important points in what she says. Closeness is of great importance. The fact that you have a fire department locally, which can move out, is important. That that fire service is also the part-time fire service – as it has been both of the places we are talking about now, they have been in the first line – also shows that we need to have flexible resources, and we need to spend money, as we do in 2014, to train and qualify even better the part-time fire service we have. It is also incredibly important that we have local knowledge of areas and that we have local knowledge of areas, for example. police. I have therefore been concerned that we must never underestimate the close police role, because it is the police and their prevention that can prevent the emergence of environments that we do not want, because whether it is in a big city or whether it is in District Norway, they must have knowledge of their local places. Therefore, a basic premise for my future thinking will be how we're going to work on preparedness. At the same time, one must have expensive and large equipment. Some of the important things, for example: The last day – or difficult, to say it like that – has been that we haven't got up the flight capacity, that we have had to subtract capacity from elsewhere. It is investment that needs to be made more centralised than that of individual municipal statesmen's, police or emergency services. That's why it's important that we have a discussion around...
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e441	It's like the clock got a little late, so you have to go in for landing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e444	Oh yes, I'm sorry – I thought I had such a good time. To say it like that, I'm in and of course accommodating to the assessments the representative of Navarsete now says must be present in the future, but we also need to raise the quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e451	I thank you for the answer and take note of what the Prime Minister says here, because there are several important issues – someone has been sent on the phone, someone has to be followed up. There are two different angles to look at them. One is about looking at readiness almost like one looks at industry, that larger units automatically provide more efficiency. What seemed to be forgetting in the distributions is something called economies of scale – to bigger, to more bureaucracy, to more resource use on routines, reporting and control, more time to set staffs, which, unfortunately, was spent on July 22nd, instead of being fast at the place, as one was in Laerdal: 6 minutes after the alarm. It is important to keep working. So I'm going to ask you directly: will the government focus on local preparedness, build on what's local, or will it be centralizing on large units that might see the big lines, be on the larger?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e456	It's hard to give a general answer to that. The general answer to that is that our focus will be on what provides the best solutions for the inhabitants of Norway, wherever they live. It'll be different, for example. if one assesses the tasks of the police today. Something is important in terms of local presence; others are important for having good qualified units to combat international crime, for example. To combat abuse against children and young people, as we know, requires qualified and good staff to be able to handle and prosecute, which we are not doing well enough today. I think in many ways it's not either – or, in some of these contexts, it's both – and. It is also true that if we can release administrative posts to more operational posts, such as: could be more on the patrol also in District Norway, yes, the help is closer, and that's what we need as a goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e463	It opens for two follow-up questions – first from Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e466	The Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness has proposed to shut down and centralise many of the country's emergency centres. The Emergency Centre in More and Romesdal has been proposed for closure and centralisation to Trondheim. The NHO Regional Director called the proposal pointless. What is of greater interest is that the government's representative, County Lodve Solholm, has stated that he strongly disagrees with such centralisation. My question to the Prime Minister is: Does the Prime Minister agree that the government representative, who has the overall responsibility for preparedness in Møre and Romesdal, has a right assessment, and that it is unwise to centralize the emergency centre from Ålesund to Trondheim?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e473	I'm glad if I can say that all the statesmen who speak at any time are our representatives. It'll probably be a little difficult for someone from a different political point of view in all the opinions they have. Of course, they are also representatives of their own country's interests. In the case of the 110 Central Stations, this is actually the DSB’s responsibility and authority today. So it is up to them to decide which municipalities are to be located, and then the Ministry of Justice and Defence is the Board of Appeal for these questions. There are quite a number of complaints now pending. On behalf of the government, I do not want to short-term the handling of those complaints as long as it is the Ministry of Justice and Defence that is the Board of Appeal for the decisions relating to the 110 centres, but they will soon decide on how to deal with these complaints. This whole structure has been frozen for a period.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e480	Ingvild Kjerkol – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e483	Extreme storms have resulted in several events of quite large damage in this autumn and winter. The fires in Lærdal and Flatanger are concrete examples, where the combination of unusually low rainfall over a long time, telecommunications in the earth and strong wind has made us have areas that are extremely exposed to forest fires and the rapid spread of fire. In Flatanger a large area of coastal landscapes is burned out. Compensation for values that cannot be the subject of ordinary non-life insurance may be covered by the State Natural Damage Fund. My question to the Prime Minister is first of all how the government will follow up on the communities that have now had large territorial branches. And: Does the Prime Minister think that adequate arrangements are in place for the loss of values and landscapes that cannot be secured by ordinary fire and natural damage insurance?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e491	Firstly, with regard to the issue of local government expenditure, infrastructure expenditure, construction and anything else that has been affected by this, the government has said from day one that, in the case of both major fires, the government will of course be involved in co-financing this, in line with what has been a good tradition of doing in Norway: small municipalities should not be burdened with large costs. This applies both to the expenditure incurred by municipalities to carry out their own work — as well as to the expenditure incurred by neighbouring municipalities, for a great deal of resources have now been used by neighbouring municipalities in decommissioning and auxiliary work — and is about rebuilding. We have good enough arrangements in the natural replacement schemes. We're going to go through that as part of the little evaluation that's going to be done, both by the effects of this and by the events. There is a lot of follow-up work to be done, including with regard to the climate adaptation message that was dealt with in the Stortingen last year, which was about looking at how we have to prepare for perhaps more extreme weather and also other events in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e498	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e501	We all noticed the Prime Minister's New Year speech, where mental health was promoted as a focus of government. Left will be an active government support player in this field. We hope it won't be with a party speech, but we don't require a moon landing either. On Monday, the NRK published a case in which they have gone through all the killings in Norway from 2003 to 2013. Half of these, 102 killings, were committed by people with a serious mental disorder. Many were in a psychotic state. One in four killings was warned, either by relatives or by the perpetrator himself. Many of the killings happen in close relationships. Despite obvious signs of disease, the blue lights rarely come on in this part of the health care system. In the Left, we've gone through the waiting lists for psychoses in Free Hospital Choice. On average, the waiting time for investigation in Norway is 6 weeks. Secondly, the waiting time for treatment is 5 1⁄2 weeks – so it will be 3 months before treatment can start. The longest waiting time is on one of Ahus’ DPSs. There are 52 weeks waiting for investigation, and 6 new weeks waiting for treatment, i.e. something over 1 year. What will the Prime Minister do to reduce waiting times and increase the capacity of specialist healthcare in psychiatry?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e512	It is very important to say that most people who are mentally ill – and then I'm talking about most people – are not dangerous people. It's very important to say in this context. But we have some who are dangerous, and in given situations are dangerous both for themselves and for others. Therefore, it is important that we have a good prevention work, that we are good at seeing each other, see development, but that we also have an easily accessible treatment device when people are really bad. I think we agree that we are not there today, neither in terms of the prevention offer nor in terms of the strong and good emergency offer. Therefore, we also believe that it is right to continue to have what we call the golden rule, that regional health businesses are given an overall governance signal that growth in drug and mental health protection should be greater than growth in somatic treatment. I think it's an overall management signal that makes health companies also give priority to the offers. That is how we know, among other things. from a large Sintef report to over 20 pst. by the specialist healthcare posts could have been avoided if we had done better preventive work. That's why we have given priority to building up prevention, both because it's important that people get help quickly so that it doesn't develop seriously and because it gives capacity and greater space to those who are seriously ill and need it. Therefore, the government has also prioritised this through the Golden Rule scheme. In addition, we have said that mental health and drug abuse should be the first area in which we introduce free treatment choices, precisely to ensure that we strengthen the rights of the weakest groups, where we believe the treatment facility is too poor. I am very humble that there is a lot to do here both in terms of prevention and in terms of making better offers, and also in terms of the quality of what is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e523	I thank the Prime Minister for the answer. More money and more prevention, I hear, are among other good answers. For psychotic patients and others with severe mental health problems, we know that the community health service and the daily supply are important. User-controlled beds, provision of activity and accommodation, financial guidance and support are often important to relieve the pressure on these patients and get them to accept treatment. Many municipalities, however, give priority to the work of the ready-to-print patients in the somatic community today – they are funded by the Interaction Reform and, more importantly, at the expense of the mental health service. Thus, the patient is in a sort of limbo, between too poor a local and long waiting lists in the specialist healthcare service. In order to guarantee patients an offer, a so-called deadline breach guarantee has been introduced, where the public at Nav or healthcare companies buys hours from private operators. I have received notices of concern about hourly rates up to NOK 7 500, and now deadline breakers enter this market...
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e532	Time's up, so Kjeseth has to land with a question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e535	If the government prioritizes between increased efforts in the municipalities, in the specialist health service or to build up a larger private offer – which of these sectors will the Prime Minister give priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e540	I think we have to use all the good forces. We need to use the private offerings we have, we need to build up more and better qualitative treatments in the field of mental health protection in the specialist healthcare service. We have to go through the treatment methods used, because not all treatments actually prove to have good results. Then we need a variety of offers, because not least in the field of mental health protection, it's like an offer that hits one, not necessarily hits the other. There are some parts of the psychiatry you can medicate; other parts you can't. So it's very important to see that it concerns both diversity and breadth. It should not be underestimated that building up prevention capacity can also release considerably more resources in the specialist health service, so that they can concentrate on the most difficult patients there. That's why we have to make sure that it's not going to be the opposite, because then we can actually cover beds with people who could actually get help at an earlier time if we had prioritised the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e547	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e550	I agree with the Prime Minister when she says you must have a diversity in the offer. You have to build different parts. But it's also like if you spend a lot of money on one part of the offer, you don't have the money to spend on the other parts of the offer. It also has to do with what we're now looking at, as the representative, Kjeseth, refers to, that we get break-in wholesalers, who act with an hourly price of NOK 7 500. If you spend the money on it, it's less money to spend on the other offers. So I wonder and repeat the question: what does the Prime Minister think is most important – is it the municipal health service, the specialist health service or is it betting on these private actors, who operate at a relatively good hourly rate, while they are almost not in the general offer, but only offer extra offers to those who are break-in patients?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e557	Time-limit wholesalers will not exist after we have introduced free treatment options, as time-limits will no longer exist. Then you will be able to choose treatment from different places from day one – not like today, where you are required to make an offer when you have come over the waiting time. So it's like our free treatment choice model involves a negotiated price to get capacity. I think that's going to increase the capacity of those who work in the field of mental health protection. But we know from the past that the negotiated price is actually below the average price in the public hospitals before. So we can't guarantee this until we've negotiated these prices, but I think we have the full room to do it, because it'll increase the number of actors that come in, and give an offer to those who are the hardest in the field of mental health protection. My priority is patients, neither private nor public actors, the therapists – my priority is patients. Let's start at the beginning. We're going to spend the most money in the years to come building up the prevention work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e567	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e570	What's a serious challenge in psychiatry, and as a contributor to waiting lists, is that we have a lot of ready-to-print patients who are just waiting for a community offer. In a sintef report that came in the fall, the national average was 7 pst. of all patients present at any time, only waiting for a municipal offer. Then, too, municipalities don't have to pay if they don't accept psychiatric patients, as they do for somatic patients. In Bergen we know that there are about 40 patients who live in hospitals, waiting for a dwelling – in the right-hand-steered municipality of Bergen. Some people have been bidding at the hospital for years. My question is, will the Prime Minister give psychiatric patients the same right to live in a municipality as other patients, and what does the Prime Minister really want to do to achieve that?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e581	I think the most important thing we do is to make sure that the municipalities have room to build up the good offer they need when they're going to receive heavy psychiatric patients. In fact, it is a challenge that many of these patients may have completed treatment, but they need a completely different follow-up offer than those who have had a new hip or knee need when they return to their home municipalities. They need shelters, and they need day-to-day supervision. In the area of community health services, coercion is not permitted, as is the case in the specialist health services. That leads to one of the big dilemmas. This means that you need to have close follow-up measures in municipalities to do so, and some of the measures such as: The municipality of Bergen has done, as I think is wonderfully good, also requires that we have a flexibility in the tour work that has thus contributed to the fact that this patient group has received a qualitatively much better offer. Here's a lot to do, and I'm going to work a lot to get this done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e590	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e593	It's been over 40 years since I joined the fight for marine abortion in Norway. One of the things that we had then, knowing, was that if we allowed the doctors to be moral judges for what had to be a woman's right to maritime regulation, it would go wrong. We knew how it would work. The right was not there. But after a while many wise women and also men in the Right have joined in on this, and I honestly believed that Erna Solberg was one of them. That is why the disappointment is great when we now see that the Right is involved in a fundamental slide away from the principles that the decision-maker should be obliged to refer a woman – also a woman – to what she has the right to. ‘It is necessary that fixed medical services, patients’ access to healthcare, meet them with a uniform voice. What your healthcare provider provides you should be the offer you have the right to receive, not the one you choose to sympathise with.’ This is on the Right's website and in the SV's Stortinget proposal. It's cut vertically from the Right Website. And now it's like that it's not just the decision-maker and what the decision-maker thinks it's too good to sympathize with, which is to be taken as a basis, but also what the majority of local government thinks it's too good to sympathize with in such cases. Then there is reason to ask: is it not time to stop this unprincipled nonsense when so many rapporteurs – now also from the Right – say no?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e605	I was active in the work, both internally in the Right and otherwise, for self-determined abortion. I believe that the question of abortion is not affected by the discussion we have today. The proposal we have put forward for consultation now guarantees women full rights to abortion, ensures women's right to proper treatment and improves, in my opinion, the position of women in relation to the real position they have had in recent years, as they have been able to enter a medical office without knowing that the doctor who reserves themselves against it, and thus has a very negative experience in that meeting. This is not going to happen with the system that we have set up. Now it will be informed in advance. You want an obligation to refer to another doctor and have a system to do that. Most doctors will do that by actually setting up an hour with another doctor, without being consulted at all, and during one working day. This guarantees a better system for women than has been the practice in recent years. But it doesn't affect the issue of abortion. That right exists; I'm going to insist that there be. I believe that in these difficult moral questions there is only one person who can have the final answer, and that is the woman herself. It's her body it's about, and it's still going to be. It's important that we have it high up. That's why we also opposed the right of reservation, as it was proposed last year from the Christian People's Party, because it didn't take into account that women should not have that experience. What we have done is to agree with the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party on a different scheme that guarantees women. And then it gives an opportunity when those guarantees are fulfilled, so that a doctor who has strong conscientities will have the opportunity to make a reservation. It's not necessarily new – not necessarily for realists. But it is that in the circular that the previous government sent out, municipalities also thought that municipalities could agree that a doctor should not perform specific tasks – not the doctors, but other types of doctors who are employed in the municipality. So the municipal question for other types of doctors opened up the previous government in their circular.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e612	Yes, I record that the Prime Minister clearly believes that a number of Right's own politicians, we others and women most do not understand our own best or do not understand the content of this. The reason why we're opposed to this is because we just understand what this is all about. We see the glide flight that the Right now is inside, and this is also saying that this should not be rocked by women's right to abortion. Of course, it does, and it also puts women in a difficult situation, for the principle of what is on the Right's website, is, of course, that the determination has this duty – not on its own merits or what they want – to refer to what the patient is entitled to. And now it is not only the decision maker who will have this opportunity, but also the local government. Isn't it rather arrogant of the Prime Minister to think that the rapporteurs from the Right in Bergen, Oslo and Tromsø and all the other Right-wing politicians who are opposed to this do not understand what this is all about?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e621	I didn't say they didn't understand. I've said that I'm going to spend time talking about what the consequences actually are, and this proposal is different from the one that was discussed last year, which is what is quoted from Right's websites. One will also find quotes that last year I was very clear and clear that I believe that giving a reservation right where you prioritise the doctors rather than prioritizing the patients and the women in this context will be wrong. But we've managed to turn it around, and then I think that as a society we should also take care of those who have strong conscientious qualms on some issues – and this is a matter of life and death – for those who believe strongly in it. I had no problem with it, but I have an inherent belief that a society that sometimes respects that kind of belief is a better and stronger society, as long as the weak party is always cared for. And we will take care of the weak party with what we have proposed. There is no change in the abortion code. All women have the right to abortion, everyone will have a good follow-up, and they will let go of the meetings they have had for eight years under a red-green government, with doctors who have reserved.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e626	It opens for three follow-up questions – first Gina Knutson Barstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e629	On the issue of mental health protection instead, the Prime Minister said so nicely that ‘my priority is patients’. But on this issue, the Prime Minister chooses side with the Christian People's Party and the booking doctors in front of the abortion-seeking women who have the right to be met with respect for their choice. Now it is women's own responsibility to avoid the doctors who reserve the reservation, and it is the responsibility of the municipalities to ensure that it is equal to the right to treatment in their municipality. I wonder if the Prime Minister in Norway is willing to take responsibility for ensuring that doctors are not reinstated as moral judges in the healthcare system.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e636	No game should be a moral over-judgment. We have chosen, and I see that all the commentators – perhaps even those who conclude that they do not believe this should be – say that in the consultation proposal we have sent out, we have actually prioritised the role of the abortion seeker. We've made sure that we've managed to get two relationships to work at the same time, and I think that's important. I think it's healthy that a society also shows respect for those who have a strong sense of conscience in the matter of life or death. But I understand that it is not a priority that some others in this debate have, because they only look at the question that this should not lead to any changes. But I remind you that for women, this situation will be better than the one they've lived with in the last 40 years with self-determined abortion. Because they have gone into the playrooms and met doctors who have thus reserved themselves, without them being aware of it. Now we make sure that they know in advance whether a doctor has made a reservation or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e642	Torgeir Mikalsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e645	I've been in politics for a few years, and I've never been in a case that has produced so many violent reactions from so many environments in the Stortinget, outside the Stortinget, from the trade unions and from those relating to it. Therefore, it is surprising that we are now experiencing a prime minister who is so humble about the reactions that are coming, and who even implies that there are people in her own ranks who have not understood what this really is about. I think people have understood this very well, they understand, for example. that many young girls are assigned to a permanent doctor, either by inheriting the appointment from their mother or by being assigned to one at the place of study. When the Prime Minister of the Political Quarter says early today that it is important that everyone thinks through what they have in mind, she says that all girls – in order to avoid discomfort in health care – are themselves responsible for having a conscious relationship with what kind of firmness they have. I think that's serious, and I'm asking the Prime Minister to clarify if she believes that 14, 15 and 16-year-old girls should be required to have a conscious relationship with the kind of attitudes that their firmers have.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e650	All of the decision-makers who had to use that opportunity will write to all of their patients and inform them about this. It will be open available information that some doctors use it. They are obliged to refer to another doctor and have a system for it. Most doctors who have it today are able to do it this way: when you call and ask for an hour and are asked what the hour is, you will be transferred to another person in the same practice that can give you that offer. I think that is actually a good arrangement that can be implemented, although it is possible to use the descriptions humiliating and other. If this is the biggest debate that the representative Micasen has been in over the years, I have to say that I have been through many tough debates, tougher than this. I know one thing: if you just explain how things are actually going to be, how the systems are done – and then we're going to listen to the hearing – then more people are going to see, just like I've matured on this issue, that here the health minister has done a good job of making sure that the woman is put in the high seat to make a system that helps the abortion is there, and that the meetings with the health care system are going to be good.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e657	Olaug V. Bollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e660	I want to thank the Prime Minister for both the way she handled this on the radio today and the way she has responded now in Stortinget. I think it is good that it is stated that this is not a rematch on abortion, it is not a tightening of the abortion law, but that there should be some conditions to get a reservation. This Christian People's Party has stood for all the way. The debate has resolved in every way. I want to challenge the Prime Minister on how we can ensure women's safety that the abortion law stands firm and at the same time avoid the witch hunt that is now on the doctors who have a conscience that I think is important to preserve in a democratic country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e667	Excited political debates about this will always put a strain on those in that situation. When I hear people saying that we've come back to the knitting stick society or anything else, I have to say that then I actually think one helps to use instruments in the political debate that actually create more anxiety in many women than it creates good political debate. There's no return to a knitting stick society. Everyone here probably agrees that the abortion law is guaranteed by this. We make sure that women get the best possible meeting with the health care service we have. Although many of the debaters in this debate are not politicians, this debate places a burden not only on the doctors but also on women through the times that have mental problems after they have had an abortion. We know that there are extra effects, and sometimes I think that's why it's important that debates around abortion are conducted with an understanding of what this intervention means to many people who have done it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e674	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e677	My question is why the Right will repeal the Sex Purchases Act. Although, historically, the right has not been a promoter of equality, the party has a relatively long tradition of accepting laws once they have been passed. We saw this when it came to the abortion law – they voted against it, but continued it. We've seen that in terms of company allowances -- they're against the law, but they accept that it's there. But in the case of two other questions, booking rights and sex purchases, it is so important that you can change the law here and go back. I think the Prime Minister should respect the fact that the discussion, whether it's sex purchase law or it's reservation law, is about values, and that's why these discussions are heated. So it's not just about pragmatism, but it's about how we look at people. I respect the fact that the Prime Minister has faith and doubt as to whether the Sex Purchases Act is good in the situation of the prostitutes. Here she awaits, as I understand it, an evaluation. If the Prime Minister wants to repeal the Sex Purchases Act, what kind of signal she wants to send internationally, where several countries are now tightening up – France is doing so – and what kind of signal she sends to Norwegian society, not by changing the law, but by returning it as it was. Christian People's Party Dagrun Eriksen has said it quite brilliantly: It would be a much stronger signal to lift the ban on sex purchases than to introduce it. My question to the Prime Minister is whether she agrees that it is a stronger signal to lift the ban on sex purchases, when the law already exists, than it was to introduce the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e688	I'm very concerned that the law against sex shopping was not a law we introduced for moral reasons. I hope everyone agrees that that's not the reason we introduced it. It wasn't because we sat on our high horse and said buying sex was wrong or something else. It was because some thought that the law contributed to the fight against human trafficking, it helped fewer people to become prostitutes, and it would contribute to the reduction of criminal ties. Then we have to evaluate the question afterwards: has it done so? So there were different opinions in the right, and then the majority fell down on the side that said listening to the prostitutes who were quite clear in their signal that the Sex Purchases Act would contribute to more difficult relationships for women who already had difficulties would mean moving the prostitution market into more organized, that is. hallucinations, markets, more swearing and less security for individuals. Because there's a need that drives many of those women and, in part, some men and boys who sell sex in our society. Now we have asked for an evaluation of this. Then I think the exciting question is whether that evaluation will give some indication of what is right or what is wrong with this. We also know that there have been different types of priorities, such as: at the South-Trøndelag Police Chamber, a number of men have been convicted for the purchase of sex, but they have not prosecuted anyone for trafficking in human beings, which was the primary issue of introducing the law against sex purchases. The Oslo Police Chamber has worked hard on a number of sex-purchasing issues that have also included trafficking in human beings. I am concerned that I will have a professional basis for the final decision. Our position has been that we still believe that the basis we opposed is the same as before, which means that we have assessed whether the law should actually be repealed. Does this mean better relations for the prostitutes and less trafficking in human beings? We don't think the evidence was good enough that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e699	There was also faith and doubt in the Workers' Party and several parties related to the situation of the prostitutes when we changed the law. But I believe that the Prime Minister is completely bowing down to what is the normative part of this law. I believe it is important when a doctoral thesis shows that this law has changed people's view of sex purchase in Oslo and among young people. It also has several components in itself, including a normative part. So the prime minister now ignores the fact that this law has changed people's view of sex. Will this not be part of the discussion that the government is to discuss whether or not to repeal the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e704	For my part, the situation for the prostitutes will still be the most important thing in that context, because we were so concerned that we should not be moralistic in the discussion around this. I actually realized that a fairly balanced Norway was at the time. But the question that Anniken Huitfeldt now asks me is a question of whether we should actually be moralistic, because this has had an effect on that view. Then we're over from what's helping the prostitutes, the fight against human trafficking, to whether we morally think it's a wrong signal to say that we're no longer punishing and punishing sex purchases. Then we have moved the debate quite far, I think. I'm probably still there that my assessment will primarily be based on the question: Have we helped the weakest in our society, or have we made it worse for the weakest? I have a pragmatic relationship with it. If it turns out that this law has helped the weakest, I am willing to enter into a good discussion in my party, as many others do, that we should not implement what we have in the program. But first I want to know – because I don't intend to be a moralist.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e712	It opens up for follow-up questions – from the representative Lene Vågslid.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e715	I have one question: how can it be that the Prime Minister's party Right wants to legalize sex purchases, but forbid begging?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e720	There's a good connection between those points of view. I noticed that someone did not get it with me. The starting point is what we think works best in the fight against, for example. trafficking in human beings, the fight against brutalised systems. The majority in the Right, who went in order for us to ban begging, felt that the link between begging and crime in Norway was so great that it would be preventative for crime that it was not allowed to beg in Norway, while the discussion about the same with prostitutes was that it would not necessarily have that function. It would actually make it more brutal, and so they didn't go in to ban sex purchases. Our starting point is what I'd like to think can have an effect on a crime scene in terms of the weakest groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e725	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e728	To date, the government has maintained its position: the state pension fund abroad is not a climate policy instrument. That, of course, is a completely absurd position. How to invest 5 000 billion. kr in the global financial market, of course, has enormous climate impact. The question is not whether the Pension Fund is a climate policy instrument. The question is, what kind of climate action do we want that fund to be? That's why it's very interesting that we're now in a situation where there can be a majority in the Storting to draw State pension funds abroad out of coal. The government has already signaled that they are against it. In return, the Prime Minister’s own government platform has a very constructive initiative to use the Pension Fund to invest in sustainable business and renewable energy. Of course, it's a 100 pst. the logical relationship between the position of withdrawing the Pension Fund from coal and using the Pension Fund for investment in renewable energy and sustainability. The question to the Prime Minister will then be: will the Prime Minister use e.g. the forthcoming announcement on the State pension fund to take the initiative to combine these two proposals, and provide the basis for a broad majority in the Grand Duchy for a new use of the State pension fund abroad, which will be a long step forward in using the fund in charge of climate policy and offensively, and in the first opportunity to deliver on the promise that the government will pursue a more offensive climate policy than its predecessor?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e737	I think that maybe the most important question we should have to answer is what you want to achieve by the fund selling out of individual shares and individual companies – and asking questions about whether it's political activism, or whether we think we're getting bigger changes in it. The reason why I ask that question is that one of the first things I did when the theme of coal came up – if we were to withdraw from it – was to go through what kind of companies are doing the coal business. Apart from the mining companies – where Norway is a major state owner in one of them, we are a large owner of coal production in the world; it is part of our entire work on Svalbard; it has been a basis for our activity there for many, many years – very many of the other energy companies that are inside coal will also be large investors in renewables, because they see that they have to have a balance between their different portfolios in view of that development. In this discussion, I think we should also look at how the terrain is out there, because it could be that not investing in coal would also mean that we are not investing in any of the most active renewable companies around. It's now like you need a pretty big economic backbone to bet on the really experimental things in renewables. We have been concerned that it is primarily a return within a sound, long-term investment strategy and within the ethical framework that we have drawn up before, which should be the primary objective of the State pension fund abroad. Why? Yes, because Norway is in a vulnerable situation with regard to high oil prices. We manage great values on behalf of many generations of Northmen, which we're going to make sure that yields a good return to future generations as well. Then we're going to add up to a discussion, we're going to go through the investment strategy, and then there's a big deal. There will be room for that discussion, but I think getting out of the coal is one of the difficult questions to address, because then we could also contribute to not investing in any of those that are quite large in renewables around Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e748	The Prime Minister was, quite rightly, aware that the State pension fund abroad is an unusual long-term fund. Many have pointed out the paradox that a large part of the investments we make with the long-term fund are in the fossil energy – coal, oil, gas and other things – as there is unison agreement that the world must phase out. The question then becomes clear: will the Prime Minister and the Government take the initiative to reconsider a strategy that will lock us to the hope of a return to something that we, with the other political hand, are working hard to phase out? And once again, is this something like this? may be included in the forthcoming Government pension fund call abroad?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e755	Climate change is now just one of Norway’s Bank’s areas of investment in ownership of the State pension fund abroad. They are assessed for their risk profile in terms of climate change and where they have invested. Then it is nothing new that the issue of exclusion has been assessed on the basis of greenhouse gas emissions. In 2003, the public body headed by Graver assessed the issues. Exclusion of coal companies was one of the issues that they considered at the time. At the time, it was assessed that it was not an appropriate instrument, and that ownership was preferable – that is, actively entering and influencing companies. If we establish a principle of withdrawing from all the coals, that also means that we're withdrawing from companies that could actually contribute to bringing money into a larger renewable effort. It is a way to exercise ownership also through the State pension fund. But we'll probably get back to the discussion, and the government will facilitate parts of that discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e764	It opens up two follow-up questions – first the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e767	I think the Prime Minister has an open and wise tone in his approach to this. Yes, it is a complicated question, and that is why we in the Workers' Party have suggested in our proposal that the government should investigate this on a professional basis. But we don't have to do it as much bigger than it really is, because as the prime minister now says, the fund takes a lot of consideration. Our fund is a foundation for democracy, and it has developed principles over the years. We have e.g. withdrawn from tobacco. We had an interesting discussion in this room where a representative from the Progress Party said it was wrong, because others bought the shares when we left them. I think that we should approach this through a discussion beyond spring, with the aim that the fund should give the highest possible return, but that it should also be something that the Norwegian society is behind in order to achieve the long-term goals we want for future generations. Then I hope the Prime Minister will include that we should look at both that part of the coal we should out of and what expectations we have for companies that are betting on renewable new technology. I want to get the Prime Minister's confirmation that there is something the government will contribute in connection with the paper on the State pension fund abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e776	We will contribute to that discussion. I'm not sure if we can get completely into the goal of a really comprehensive investigation into this for the first big shot, but it's an interesting and important topic to discuss, also to what extent we can be more active in the exercise of ownership at some of these points, instead of going out of companies. There are many recommendations related to it, and in several areas it can have a greater impact on what we want, even in those areas where we are withdrawing today – we can get a greater change in behaviour by actually influencing ownership rather than withdrawing entirely from ownership. And if we don't talk about the mining companies, where we are the producer ourselves, with, I think, 99 pst. state ownership, we are in other areas – in the case of energy companies – within companies that often have more and different types of investment profiles, and we need to be sure that the impact of what we do is not only negative. In addition, it's like this -- I want to underline it, because...
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e786	It's about time. Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e791	When the goal is the highest possible return, aren't there really two things that we have to do? One is to extend the geographical constraints to the SPU, so that one can obtain more investment outside the OECD countries, where one expects a lower growth in a long-term perspective, and can bring with it a larger geographical area. That's the one. Secondly, with the oil dependence of the Norwegian economy, is it not really in Norwegian own interest that we limit investment not only in the coal industry but also in the oil and gas industry internationally, just to limit the risk we are exposed to in the Norwegian economy in total?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e796	The target is the highest rate of return without taking too much risk. One can bet on high returns and take so much risk that there is a risk of loss. One shall not speculate in future generations’ income through the State pension fund. After all, there is a gradual shift in the way the world economy is – in money, more investment, but in the share of the fund, less investment, for example. in Europe. That is what I meet when I meet European colleagues who feel that Norway should be more active in investing more for growth in Europe, rather than following the fact that world developments are taking place elsewhere. But then I think we can think a lot about what's important in the future, but I respect that those who really do the professional risk assessments are the ones who have to follow the companies, follow the markets and make those assessments. An overall political direction of this, I think, can be taken wrong by place, and although they may feel that long-term development is the case, I believe that this can be allowed to happen to professionals. I know my limitations in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e805	So the oral question procedure is changed, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e817	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments are proposed for approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question No 1, by the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen to the Minister for Finance, lapses because the questioner is not present. Question 9, from Mr Elvesuen's representative to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Health on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, who has left. Question 10, from the representative Rasmus Hansson to the Minister for Oil and Energy, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e841	This question lapses, as the questioner is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e848	«The government will weaken the universal design requirements of dwellings on the grounds that they are too expensive. Among other things, it has been claimed that the requirements result in an increase in the area that can feed the dwellings by several hundred thousand dollars. On the government’s websites, the Sintef report ‘Not so expensive yet’ refutes these claims and concludes that TEK10 can lead to cost increases, but most of them are small and under 40,000 kroner. Why will the Council of State reduce freedom of choice for people in wheelchairs?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e860	The Government has notified simplifications in the Planning and Building Act with regulations and a review of the effect of the Building Regulation on the price and construction activity of the smallest dwellings. I would like to make it clear that the principle of universal design and the availability of housing should be established. Nevertheless, there is a need to assess whether some of the housing rules can be simplified. The work of evaluating the simplification of accessibility requirements starts in these days. First of all, I want to look at the scope of the requirements for the availability of dwellings. I want to consider as part of this reduced requirements on the size of the wheelchair snuggle. Proposals for changes shall be made through knowledge-based processes, including: in cooperation with the construction industry, stakeholder organisations and municipalities. These will be invited to dialogue before the preparation of consultation proposals. I'm busy having a good dialogue with all the stakeholders. The government wants to facilitate housing construction and help keep construction costs down. At the same time, we need to build functional and forward-looking dwellings that can be used for generations. The electric wave must be taken seriously and will trigger a major need for accessible dwellings. The government's vision is a society where everyone can participate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e871	I'm glad the Council of State says that the objective of a universally designed society is firm. I have also seen in the government statement that that, among other things. states that freedom to govern their own lives is important, that expectations of free and maritime life are mentioned, and that the work of a universally designed society is important. When we know that it's just 8 pst. Of the homes that are such that one can enter into them and use them if one is dependent on a large wheelchair, I have to say that this is a pretty strong constraint when people have to be able to choose the dwelling freely – and I expect that the Council of State believes that one should have the opportunity to sail if one is sitting in a wheelchair – or one should go on a visit or have visits by some friends such as those. sitting in a wheelchair. Therefore, there is a great need to increase this proportion. Is it the case that the Council of State does not know the results of this survey, which is on the government's own website?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e878	Yes, I know about the investigation. If I'm not completely wrong, it's linked up to my department's website, so I'm familiar with it. I've also read the main conclusions in it, where that, among other things. to point out that costs may increase up to NOK 40000 per apartment, and then there are a number of factors that are not included in that calculation. I am also well aware that there are many different actors who have put great questions about that particular assessment. I'm not taking a stand on this. This is also the reason why we have entered into a cooperation agreement with the construction industry in order to have a common basis for assessing building rules, including: linked to index buildings. It is important to have a common basis. Then I also want to make it clear that when we write that «freedom to rule his own life» is essential, it is fundamental. These include: the reason we're busy with BPA, user-controlled personal assistance. I think that means more than 20 cm on a snub circle in a small apartment.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e885	Then I think the Council of State should listen to the organisations of the disabled, who reject the claims that the Council of State is now making, that this snooping circle is not important. Experience in Sweden has shown that this limits the possibility of living in different stages of life. It is also stated in this SINTEF report on bathroom requirements, for example, which has been used very clearly, that it does not lead to disproportionately expensive spending – it does not get much more expensive than before. In addition to this, it says that the construction industry has always, up through the ages, pointed out that if new demands are made, it is becoming more expensive and, in this context, it is due to people with disabilities for increasing housing prices. I guess there are some completely different speculators who have contributed to the rise in housing prices, than people with wheelchairs, who should be able to use apartments freely or to visit them. So I have to say I don't feel reassured by the Council's response.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e890	Let me first say that the government is concerned that we should have more universally designed apartments, and that there should be increased availability. It's important, both for the disabled and for an ageing population, that we want to be able to live longer at home. It's in the bottom. But we don't have to get there that means you have to have a sacred relationship with any requirement in TEK 10. We must be able to have a review and a professional assessment of the individual requirements in order to see what is necessary and what is degrading. That's the process we're in now, where we have a knowledge-based approach. That means we're not just listening to the one; we're listening to everyone. We also need to listen to disabled people and have dialogue with them, and we need a knowledge-based approach. It is clear that we need to maintain the requirement of availability, but we need to help reduce construction costs. It is important for young people, disabled people and non-disabled people to be able to enter the housing market.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e899	The E18 route Ørje-Härland was opened in autumn 2003. At the time, middle parts were not required to present a current problem. In retrospect, it has been. My question is: ‘The need for the middle parts of E18 through Inner Eastfold is due to the need to extend the two parts of the existing E18 between Eidsberg and Ørje. This would entail considerable costs for the conversion of bridges, etc. Will the Council of State ensure that a cost calculation for the construction of the full four-field road on the Eidsberg-Ørje route is now carried out before the implementation of the work on the centre parts, and when can such a cost calculation be clear?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e908	Increased development of road, rail and other infrastructure is important for this government. We have announced more bets and reforms just to enable us to build more roads and more railways faster and cheaper. That is why we are creating, among other things: a road investment company, we're going to reform the toll sector, and we're going to set up an infrastructure fund and we've already started to allocate money to it. We are going to reform the rail sector so that the railway works get clear and defined tasks and the NSB and other actors that are going to compete on the track get better competitive conditions, and we have started working on a national port strategy. In addition, we increase the appropriations. In the current year's budget, we've increased by over 2 billion. kr in addition to what was proposed by the previous government. This question raised by the representative is actually a welcome one, because it shows that one now also wants from the Labour Party to increase the road effort in addition to what one in government put up in the national transport plan. In the national transport plan, the previous government decided that this road section should have two fields with middle parts. I am therefore happy to say that with this government, Vegvesen also works to look at the costs and the possibility of having this as a four-way street. Whether it becomes a traditional four-field motorway, or whether it becomes like the other road that has already been built, a two-field with a permanent pass, which is then perceived as a four-field road, remains to be seen. But that work is being done by the Vegvesen. With regard to the progress made on this, the construction start was planned in 2017. We're not going to delay it, our ambition is to speed up projects rather than delay them. Once the Road Service has made any cost estimate, or when they come with a cost estimate, I do not know yet, but the work is in progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e917	It's great that we all want good roads. That's what the previous government did, and so does the new government. It's fine. But I almost have to ask one more time, because I really didn't see the answer: will the Council of State ensure that for the route Melleby-Erje on the E18 inner Eastfold – which is now built as a two-field without a middle part, because that issue was not at that time – a cost calculation is made to make the road into a full four-field road, instead of using half a billion, is it about making middle parts?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e922	Then I'll repeat what I said, maybe I didn't say it clearly enough. Yes, the Road Service has begun to calculate what it will cost to build this as a four-field road, so it will be done. So once again, the mission we got from the previous government was to calculate it as a two-field road with middle parts. So pointing to plans when it was built up last time is not relevant, because there was a new order in the National Transport Plan from 2013 that there should be two-field road with middle parts. It seems that the governing parties of the day, both the Party of Advancement and the Right, were too defensive. That's why I'm very happy that when we're in government, we're giving control signals other than what was given before, and that means that you're also going to have this as a four-field road. Then we come back to this in the state budget when the appropriations are going to happen, and see what solution the Storting wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e927	That's good, but the question is, can you specify when the State Road Service will be able to put these numbers on the table? Do we see these numbers before summer, or do we have to wait until after summer?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e932	When the numbers get on the table, I can't say yet, but that it will happen as soon as possible, there's no doubt about it. I remind you that in the national transport plan presented by the previous government, the construction start of this project was planned in 2017, i.e. three years in advance, and that means that the Road Administration has plenty of time to do this calculation without jeopardising the project. I'm glad that we have an even greater majority behind us now than was the case one year ago when this way last time was discussed -- a larger majority to think about the four-field road and not just the two-field road. I also hope that when the state budget is dealt with, it is reflected in the budgetary options of the various parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e941	I have sent the following questions to the Minister for Culture: ‘The production aid is the main direct aid scheme for the creation of local newsprint courses and, in particular, in the major cities. However, today’s payment procedures create a lack of predictability by the fact that the amount of the grant is not known until the end of the financial year in October/November. Will the Council of State contribute to making production aid as administratively predictable as possible and that newspapers are notified of the year’s subsidy as soon as the aid is calculated in February?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e950	First, I would argue that the production grant is a relatively predictable grant scheme because the grant is calculated in accordance with strictly regulated criteria based on circulation, publication frequency and local competitive position. There is no administrative separation involved in the calculation of the grant. This ensures predictability for the newspapers, but not least in general confidence that the media have the independence they need to run critical journalism, including towards the government or the Minister of Culture, without having to risk their livelihoods. At the same time, this is the reason why final settlement cannot be made before the autumn. The calculations are in addition to the printing, publishing, etc. also based on some information which is not available before the annual accounts and annual reports of the newspaper companies are available, normally in June. This relates to information on operating profits, the payment of dividends, group transactions, etc. In order for the aid to be targeted, the scheme must contain mechanisms to ensure that such aid takes place where there is a real economic need. In addition, the production grant is a framework grant, which means that the legislation does not give the papers the right to a specific sum but to a share of the allocated pot. Of course, the share will depend on the number of newspapers that qualify to support each year. The consequence is that the aid cannot be calculated until all the eligible media have submitted all the necessary information to the Media Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e959	I thank you for the answer, but I don't fully agree with the information I've been given, because it turns out that all the main factors become known before February 15. This has something to do with the fact that when we grant a certain amount, it is precisely to strengthen the media diversity, so that serious newspapers get an opportunity to use the production aid into their planning. The rest of cultural life receives a letter of commitment with predictability as to how to deal with it. Will the Council of State go in and see if it is not possible to have the same practice in the newspapers, which are very vulnerable, especially the number. The 2 newspapers and the major meaningful newspapers, where is the production subsidy a very large part?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e964	It is a fundamental element of this scheme that the aid is based on this information, which I mentioned, inter alia: publishing and publishing frequency, and not least the economic conditions of the individual newspapers. As long as the grant scheme is organised in this way, it is also appropriate to use as up-to-date information as possible. The option would be to use up to two years old information, which would be very low in terms of certainty. Changing the current system would also require a complete conversion of the entire grant scheme. This is not the case now, as after several years of work we are very close to having the new grant scheme approved by ESA.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e971	I think we're repeating each other here. I think it might be wise to go back again, because the Media Support Committee, too, which was put down, came up with a unified and unanimous attitude that we should look at the support schemes. Almost everyone is known around February 15th, and there's something about predictability. There you can reserve the small piece that is known in June and say it will be corrected. Because there is a great difference between February, June and November, as practice has been today, and we are all concerned with media pluralism. So that's a last recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e976	I have also noticed that the Media Authority has informed them that they are interested in trying to find practical solutions within today's system, which may give the newspapers a little more predictability. But changing the whole system, subject to doing so, is not relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e985	I have asked the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion the following questions: ‘In the spontaneous Question Time of 15 January this year, the Council of State was challenged by the considerable problems of families with children by reducing the number of kindergartens by 7,000 compared to the budget of the Stoltenberg Government. In its reply, the Council of State said: ‘... in the budget proposed by the Stoltenberg II Government, there was not a single crown for the follow-up of ongoing child care.’ Does the Council of State think that through this she has provided correct information to the Stortinget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e994	In an oral Question Time on 15 January, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum asked me questions about continuous babysitting. The starting point was that I have previously stated that the Advance Party wants to receive continuous babysitting. In the past, I raised the question several times with the then Minister of Knowledge Kristin Halvorsen about the costs of running kindergarten admissions. All initiatives were clearly rejected by the Stoltenberg Government on the grounds that current childcare services would cost between 3 and 5 billion. kr. In the draft budget of the Stoltenberg Government for 2014, it was proposed to allocate 241 million. kr to increase the number of nursery places. This would extend the right to children's playground for children aged one year from 31 August to 31 October, i.e. with two months. As I have understood the proposal, it was not a step in the direction of ongoing kindergarten admissions, but a first step in an escalating towards two admissions a year. I see that my statement in oral question time on 15 January can be misunderstood. It was not my intention to suggest that the Stoltenberg government had proposed to grant funds for a gradual escalation towards two annual nursery receptions. As I also pointed out in my reply on 15 January, kindergarten policy is the responsibility of the Minister of Knowledge. That is why he is the appropriate address for questions about babysitting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e1007	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and it was so elucidating. I am pleased that the Council of State also sees that the appropriations in the budget of the Stoltenberg government would have resulted in more kindergartens, and so seen an offer to the children and the families with children who are struggling to get their daily life together. Then it might be right to ask questions to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, who is concerned about having an active family policy, about how she views the situation of those children who now do not have room in kindergarten, and how families experience it in order to get their daily lives together. We meet many of them now in these days.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e1014	Now the question is coming, a little bit on the side of the first question, but the representative is still going to get an answer. What this government has done is to increase the flexibility and freedom of choice of families with children. It is now the case that all 1-year-olds who are born before 1 September are entitled to kindergarten. But by increasing the cash support by NOK 1000, as this government has done, there is also an opportunity for some families in a busy early childhood phase to prioritize being a little longer at home with their children before they place them in kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e1019	I thank you again for the answer. But does the Council of State think that choosing between cash support and cash support gives freedom of choice for a family of children?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e1024	This government believes that it is a great improvement to give families freedom of choice by extending the parental leave scheme and the optional scheme and by increasing the cash support by NOK 1000 for the very smallest children. This will give families freedom of choice – to choose cash support in front of kindergarten if they want it, but also have the right to kindergarten if that is what the family wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e1033	‘Lærdal was the victim of a major fire disaster by night until 19 January. The readiness to secure life and health was put to a great test. Lärdal hospitals played a central role in treating many of those who were injured in the disaster. The same was true of the dramatic car fire in the Gudvanga tunnel. What lessons should be learned from the Council of State when it comes to the role of local hospitals in a robust preparedness for major accidents and disasters?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e1040	I agree with the representative Toppe that the fire in Lærdal put our total preparedness to the test. I have so far a positive view of how the actors on the health side managed this event. The staff at Lærdal Hospital did a formidable job and examined more than 450 patients including the response personnel. Both Lärdal hospitals, the Executive Central Hospital and Voss Hospital had the capacity to receive patients throughout the day. There was a consistent overview of the available capacity and resources. Director Jon Bolstad at Helse Förde HF traveled himself early to Lærdal and contributed to the work. There was sufficient rescue and air ambulance capacity during the event. Both the Air ambulance service and the Sea King rescue helicopters transported damaged and displaced personnel. In addition, the Defense put two Bell helicopters at their disposal. There has been very good cooperation between the community health service, which has been established in the hospital, and the specialist health service throughout the event. Psychiatric crisis teams in the municipalities seem to have worked well, and the specialist health service had prepared to contribute as needed. The same joint effort was also shown by the dramatic car fire in the Gudvanga tunnel. However, it would not be right for me now to draw clear conclusions about the role of local hospitals in emergency response from these events in isolation. It is natural that the specialist health service, in cooperation with the municipalities and other emergency settings, evaluates the efforts made on these events. In this way, we can ensure learning to better deal with future events and issues relating to the further organisation of services. The fact that all of those actors set up immediately at the time of the events shows that it is the total effort that is crucial for successful management in such demanding events. Rescue and air ambulance capacities included: Completely necessary to enable the necessary skills and equipment to be put in place as quickly as possible. If serious damage had occurred with a need for more specialised health care, the helicopters could carry these patients to Health Bergen HF. In my opinion, questions about the local hospital of the future must have a broad approach. and I find it natural to do so in the context of the work on a new national health and hospital plan, which the government is planning to submit in 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e1059	I would like to thank you for your answer. I thought it was very good that the Minister of Health described what has been a very good effort on the part of the hospital and from the emergency services outside. However, I'm a little concerned when the Minister of Health says he won't draw a conclusion now about the role of local hospitals in the overall preparedness, when we see how fundamental it was that there was a place that took on more than 450 patients. I wonder what the second emergency service had been exposed to if 450 patients should have been transported to a centralised hospital. So I want to ask again whether the Minister of Health will say something more concrete about the role of local hospitals in total preparedness when an accident is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e1066	There is no debate now on Lärdal Hospital, so I perceive that it is not a topical issue. We have now started a very important and comprehensive work on establishing a national health and hospital plan, which includes: the role of local hospitals shall be an important part. So I think it'll be way too early now, on the basis of this event, to draw absolute conclusions. This event, and other events, will provide a basis for the discussion we are going to have and the investigation work to be carried out in connection with the national health and hospital plan. And then the National Health and Hospital Plan is to be submitted to the Stortinget for treatment. This is a commitment that the representative Top and the undersigned have had for many years that the Storting should be more closely involved in this type of discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e1075	In the previous ageing period, and also many years before that, Lärdal hospitals have been threatened by closure, or at least being deprived of tasks. In the previous period, there was a decision in Health Förde to turn Lärdal hospital into a local medical centre. It was overtly political. My question is whether the Minister of Health can be more specific: when a national health and hospital plan is to be drawn up, it is not unnatural that the same proposal will come back from the health bureaucrats, who will often centralise emergency functions. Can the Minister of Health provide a guarantee that he felt it was important to have emergency care at the hospital level in local hospitals such as Laerdal?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e1082	As I said in my previous answer, there is no discussion about Lärdal hospitals now. The government is working on creating a new national health and hospital plan. It will be a process that I will inform the Storting about at a later stage, about how it is going to happen. But it'll be very unnatural now to start drawing bastant conclusions and giving guarantees for one area and the other, when what the Storting wants, is just to deal with an overall national health and hospital plan, where one gets to look at these questions on a more general, principled basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e1091	‘There are now regular headlines in the media about companies that need to resort to permitting. We receive many enquiries from companies and trade unions that have negative experience with the limitations of the permitting legislation with the extension of the employer’s period from 10 to 20 days. At the same time, the period of leave is reduced to 26 weeks. In addition, there are many people who experience that Nav has changed the practice of paying daily pay on leave. What will the Council of State do to improve the situation of the enterprises and those on leave?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e1098	Thank you for the question. It is true, as Andersen’s representative points out, that many companies feel that the practice of legislation related to permitting has been tightened up. I myself have followed closely the development and the situation. I would first like to remind you that one year ago, you sat down in the department, together with NHO and LO, and created a circular that gave you a new understanding of how to practise permitting. So I've seen that practice hasn't been right from Nav's side. That is why I did the following on Monday: I sent a letter to Nav to stop all permitting requests, after the meeting with LO and NHO, and to clarify how the permitting rules should be practised and understood in a separate regulation. It'll be in place the next Monday, so we'll have new practices. That means we've got one of the things that's been most problematic for businesses, and that it's been the greatest pressure on. The government shows action, quickly acknowledges problems, precisely because we are following developments in the labour market closely from day to day. Then I will also be allowed to point out that the tightening that is pointed out in respect of 30 and 26 weeks is no legal tightening. The law's requirements have always been 26 weeks, but they've been practiced up to 30 weeks. We are now adding up to a practice that is under the law, as it has also been under the previous governments, which was 26 weeks, but one allowed another practice. Also there we follow developments closely from day to day. It has always been the case that the rules on permitting have changed in line with the labour market situation. That's what it has been, that's what it is, and that's what it's going to be in the future, but then it has to be based on the real situation in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e1113	Firstly, I would like to say that what the Council of State has done in understanding the legislation is good, and it has at least my and – I am sure – the full support of the entire opposition. There the Council of State has repeated the same thing as his predecessor Anniken Huitfeldt did as the Council of State, and it has full support. But the main part of the question is about the experience of the misleading change in policy, and not primarily the 26 weeks, which is a deadline we have not yet reached, and which we also believe is wrong. It goes primarily on, in the phase we're in now, the fact that businesses have to pay longer, and that one in that way stimulates people to quit instead of permitting people to have the skills available when, for example. the construction industry is more experienced than in the spring. So my question is, does the Council intend to do anything about it? It's true, as the Council of State says, that there have occasionally been adjustments up and down, but it's the first time that one adjusts that path, while one thinks that unemployment is increasing, and that's worrying.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e1122	I believe that the extension of the employer’s period of compulsory pay may lead to the avoidance of unnecessary leave. It is important to have a legislation on permitting that does not result in unnecessary permitting, the release of labour to keep employment up, and the use of the labour force where it throws the most of it. Then there will always be issues related to how to set it up, but in Norway we have had a tradition of setting the rules of leave in line with developments in the labour market. I see no reason at this stage to make changes to it, but as I said, we are following developments closely. The situation referred to, that there was a different employer period and that it was reduced, was the middle of the financial crisis. That time we had over 18,000 permits. Today we have 2,900 full-time, which shows that we have a completely different situation in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e1131	There is no disagreement about avoiding unnecessary lay-offs, but the prerequisite for obtaining a permit is that the permit is necessary. It's been like this all along. What is now the case is that this government has tightened up so that the employer has to pay longer during that period. The assumption that the permit is necessary is, of course, present. This is a wild political narrowdown. So, in a situation where an increase in unemployment is expected, the rules of leave are getting worse, and it's the first time in history that a government has done it that way. Let me end with a question specifically related to the practice – I have already said it is good that it is clarified – in the same way that our government did it. There are indications that, especially in the fishing industry, there is a narrowing of practices that are unfair. The government proposed to tighten up 146 million. NOK, but only 108 of them were adopted because Stortinget would not tighten up on the fishing industry. Can the Council of State ensure that it is not in practice tightened up with the fishing industry when the Stortinget has decided not to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e1140	I can ensure that the legislation adopted by the Stortinget is complied with and that the understanding from which the legislation is to be practised – which I have agreed with LO and NHO – is practiced in Nav. That's the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e1149	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice and Defence the following questions: ‘In the election campaign last year, the Right and Advance Party strongly criticized the then government so as not to ensure that all police college students got a job in the police quickly after finishing education. The situation in recent years had been that by April of the year after a coal had left the Police College, it had been about. 95 pst. got a job in the police department. Instead, the government parties wanted to introduce a job guarantee for the police college students. How much of the coal from 2013 has now been employed by the police, and what is the state of implementation of the guarantee?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e1158	These figures were published by the POD last week and can also be found on the POD web pages. The answer is short and correct that as of 31 December 2013 had 78.1 pst. by those who went out in the spring of 2013, got a job. It well illustrates the need to change the policy pursued by the former government. The Workers' Party was in charge of the Ministry of Justice and Defence for 42 weeks last year, and the result – 78,1 pst. by those who went out in 2013 – in my opinion is too bad. I have given notice to the POD that I expect this to be corrected in a very short time. With regard to the implementation of the guarantee, it has already been implemented through the 2014 budget, where the government has made it clear – in line with the government platform – that new and vacant posts in the police are to increase the corresponding number of students in the Police College until the target of two police officers or women is reached by 2020. I am very pleased that this government has quickly established a system that ensures that the number of posts in the police is increasing correspondingly to the number of police students who graduate successfully from the Police College.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e1165	I thank you for your answer. The situation is, as the council said, that 78 pst. by those who have passed, have got a job until now. At the same time last year – i.e. the previous year – the situation was 94 pst. by the high school police who had passed, had received a job. You can't just say from the new government that this is the responsibility of the old government, all the time that the new government has been in operation a large part of the period that went out at the end of June, has been looking for a job and has actually been looking for a job. So here you have to start taking responsibility. When I read in the budget what those 100 million. It is intended to involve civilians in various functions of the police, to involve health professionals in the transport of persons with mental health problems, etc. I do not see that there is any money there that does anything further to introduce this job guarantee in 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e1174	This additional question was full of errors. It is wrong when the representative said that it was 94 pst. which on 31 December 2012 had a job in the police of those who went out of the corresponding year. In the last two years, the figures have been about the same. 86 pst. and 84 pst. This means that there is a decrease in 2013 compared to what has been the case in the past. The figure that Bøhler's representative probably refers to is the number of police students working in April of the following year. Because there's been up to 95 pst. We're still a little bit away from April. The second is that it has been allocated 264 million. kr in the 2014 budget to strengthen police and police staff. That's 164 million. kr to ensure new police students work, and that is 100 million. to increase police force in other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e1181	The figures I read – on 31 December of the year before this government joined – are from the overview to the Police Directorate. Then this is the overview in case of error, because it says it was 94 pst. on the previous year, to which I referred, compared with 78 pst. Now. What was experienced as a job guarantee, among other things. the electoral campaign meetings and at various meetings — the PF national meeting, etc. – in the previous period, the idea was not to have it the way we have had it, that in a few months, after leaving the Police College and until March-April of the following year, you can either enter permanent jobs, temporary jobs or temporary jobs, so that you can eventually get into permanent work in the police. You fill up for those who retire, and put money into new jobs – you can have a combination of this. It now seems that the new government has the same solution as we had — that one has a working and approach that is the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e1190	I cannot be held responsible for what Mr Bøhler believes. What the government has said is that we need to increase the number of vacancies in the police equivalent to the number of students who pass the exam that year the budget applies to. The government has delivered it for 2014, and we have the intention to deliver it in the future as well. But then, of course, it's also that when you give someone an opportunity to get a job and give them the necessary money and jobs for it, it doesn't mean that you get an individual right to work where you want to. It is the overall need for police Norway which must initially guide where these posts should be. It may also affect the application for some of these posts. The starting point is to ensure that the posts made available to the police each year are equal to the number of outbound police students. Then I can hardly see anything but that it can be called a job guarantee.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e1197	Question 9, from Mr Elvesuen's representative to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Care on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e1204	‘30. September gave the NVE concession to Dalsbotnfjellet wind farm in Gulen. Yellow municipal government has opposed the wind power plant and the NVE concession decision is contrary to established administrative practice that the acceptance of the host municipality is necessary to grant concession. The decision has been appealed by the Municipality of Yellow. What is the Council of State’s view on whether the host municipality’s acceptance is necessary to grant wind power concessions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e1211	I am aware that the NVE's decision on the Dalsbotnberg wind power plant in the Gulen municipality is under appeal. The complaints are for the preliminary review of the NVE. If the NVE does not find any basis for change, the complaints will be sent to the Ministry. I ask for an understanding that I cannot comment on that matter when it has not even been sent to the Department for Treatment. Let there be no doubt that local acceptance for wind power generation will be very central to me when the concession authorities decide on wind power. In assessing whether the acceptance of the host municipality is necessary in all cases in order to grant concession to wind power, we have to assume that the wind power concession under the Energy Act can be granted to projects that are socially rational. The benefits of the extension must therefore exceed the damage and disadvantages which the measure may cause. The NVE has been delegated power under the Energy Act to grant concession to wind power. The NVE concession treatment shall facilitate the realisation of projects in order to achieve the renewable objectives. If municipal connection is to be a prerequisite for the concession of any wind power plant, the possibility of the total weighing of the NVE is significantly impaired by the law. The municipalities, on their side, have no possibility of making a corresponding balance. Moreover, municipalities would not be able to assess individual projects against projects elsewhere in the country with a view to finding the best projects. Therefore, in order to achieve the objectives of renewable energy deployment, it is not possible to remove any access for the concession authorities to grant concessions to technically-economic and environmentally sound projects, even if local authorities are negative. There is no doubt, however, that the views of local authorities and the whole of local democracy for my part will be very serious in the matter of wind power. This is a vision that should have much to say for the outcome of the concessional treatment. I would also like to place considerable emphasis on the outcome of any referendum – together with the views of the landowners concerned – when deciding on the development of wind power plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e1220	I have a lot of understanding that you cannot go into the individual case. I also understand that it is not the oil and energy minister who answers the question. I am pleased with one part of the answer to the question, when you say that the municipality's view should be very central. But at the same time, it is also believed that the overall consideration means that you should be able to get away from that municipality's point of view. Then I would like to remind you of two statements in Europower from as late as September 3. One is from Siri A. Meling in the Right, who says, "We also believe that the municipalities should have a lot to say, and that is completely in line with today's practice". It is also an opinion from the current Council of State, Ketil Solvik-Olsen, which says: "We have always said that municipalities should have veto rights on wind power projects. There are more than enough municipalities that want wind power. Then there is no intention of unnecessary conflicts in municipalities that do not wish to do so». The real question then is: Do you generally agree with that statement, also from the current government?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e1229	Of course, I can only express my opinion on this matter in line with what the Minister for Oil and Energy has said, namely that one should place a strong emphasis on what the municipalities mean in these matters. However, granting each municipality a right to veto will make it difficult to achieve the renewable objectives – which are important for the government and the Stortinge – but also have the limitation that individual municipalities obviously do not have the opportunity to take a corresponding balance between projects, for example. elsewhere in the country, with a view to finding the best projects. I cannot comment on what parties have thought about this before the election. This is not a topic mentioned in the cooperation agreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, nor in the government platform between the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e1236	Then I'm actually interpreting it so that if you reach the renewable energy targets, the government will mean that you have to follow the views of the municipalities – because that's the commitment it's given in the answer. The answer then is that if it is to be the general rule, it is at least agreed that if the municipalities are to be heard as a general rule, it must also be followed in case of individual cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e1241	I have no opportunity to give profound interpretations of the oil and energy minister's answers in this area, but I would strongly recommend that the representative Elvesuen contact the oil and energy minister directly and discuss this issue, and then state what the Left wants in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e1258	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time. That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-29.ana.ud1065e1273	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
