ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e26	The representatives Anette Trettebergstien and Geir Jørgen Bekkevold, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. From the Christian People's Party Group there is a notice that the granted leave of the representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold in the period from 6 May to 9 May is hereby amended and withdrawn from 7 May until 9 May. – This message is taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e51	On Monday, the Stortinge received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Tine Sundtoft, Solvency Horne and Anders Anundsen will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. The first main question is from the representative of Terje Aasland.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e58	My question goes to the Minister for Climate and Environment, and I would like to start by quoting parts of a unanimous decision in Stortinget from 2011: ‘Norway has an obligation under the Berne Convention to ensure the survival of all the major predatory species in Norwegian nature. Several of our large predators are part of major Scandinavian tribes; the conciliators see it as natural to cooperate with our neighbouring countries on the management of relevant predators, which is also in line with the Berne Convention's formulations on international cooperation. Animals on the pasture have many positive qualities and it is important to ensure the viability of farming activities in areas of wild game. The parties to the settlement refer to the two-part objective of the 2004 paper game settlement, and that the challenge lies in securing both parts without increasing the conflicts between them beyond what is necessary.» Further: «The management of predators must be based on a policy which, in order to ensure the survival of all the major predatory species in Norwegian nature, must be combined with an administration which, in total, helps to mitigate conflicts and counter insecurity within the two-part objective.» This is the verbatim from the 2011 agreement on predators, which was unanimously adopted in Stortinget. I have a great deal of understanding that this is a demanding decision, but it should be fully possible to comply. The prerequisite for success is that the two objectives of the agreement to have predators at the same time as animals on the outback are actually equated. My question will therefore be: how will the Minister for Climate and Environment ensure that the agreed objectives of the Storting are met in the predatory settlement, and what action does the Council of State actually consider necessary in order to mitigate the conflicts and counter the uncertainty within the two-fold objective?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e75	There should be no concealment that predatory wildlife policy is a demanding field: the pursuit of two objectives that may be contradictory, taking into account both the grazing industry and the predatory game. But it is precisely this two-part objective that lies in the 2011 Robbery Agreement, and the government is pursuing a clear predatory policy under that decision. In addition to the robberies agreement, we will also manage under the Berne Convention and the Nature Diversity Act. We are looking for good cooperation with the regional predators. This government has had fewer reviews of the decisions of regional predators than of the previous government. Of the 16 complaints from regional predators, we have only tried one decision. We now have a high level of preparedness to ensure that the harvesting of predators is carried out in order to reduce the level of conflict. We have not appealed the Krokan judgment, so it is also important to consider causes of loss other than predatory game in order to calculate compensation. As of 1 January of this year, we have also introduced time limits for the processing of wild game. An instruction has been adopted on time-limits for the examination of applications and complaints relating to claims cases. We have also said that we will come back to Stortinget with a new stock target for wolves after we see that we do not fully achieve the goal of negotiations with Sweden regarding border wolves. We believe that we are in charge of the predatory game policy in line with what the Stortinget has decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e86	I thank you for your answer. It is incredibly important that the administration in this matter actually works, and that the Council of State follows up. It is important that most of the elements function, that assistance for the withdrawal of specified allowances actually takes place, and that this also reduces the level of conflict. That's maybe one of the biggest challenges. There are several examples this spring of the opposite happening, the increase in the level of conflict and not dampening. In Oppland, for example. significant frustration and despair at the fact that no quota can be set for you until the time of conservation occurs, with the significant uncertainty this causes to the grazing industry. I assume that the Council of State agrees with me that set quotas are important to be taken out, and that this is a supporting element for the public's confidence in the predatory settlement. How will the Council of State ensure that set quotas, perhaps the most important element, are actually withdrawn and that the confidence in the predatory settlement can be maintained in all parts of the population?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e93	It's right, as Aasland's representative says, it's important that we have faith in the administration here. That's why we're busy setting short deadlines to get this done. Once we have reached the stock targets adopted in the predatory game deal, we're going to use the possibilities we have to trap animals within the set quotas. We believe that this is now happening in line with what the Storting has decided, and is engaged in a close dialogue also with the statesmen, so that we do not lose unnecessary time in the capture of the animals set out in the quotas.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e98	It opens for follow-up questions – first Rigmor Aasrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e101	On Friday, I met sheep farmers in Wågå. Many were despaired, for they had recently become familiar with a warning from the Food Authority that they could be refused to send their animals to pasture because the loss figures in the last few years have been over 10 pst. There are sheep bones that experience that this can become a reality, it has been used with loss rates of over 10 pst. the last three years in the area. It is easy to understand that this is demanding for those involved. It is then important that the SNO become a part of the solution and an important partner for the predatory and local populations. It's very unfortunate that the predatory game in Oppland has received 1 million. kr less to drive for this year. Then is my question to the Council of State: what will the Council of State do when the predatory settlement is so clear on anti-conflict measures? Can the farmers in Weigh now expect measures that make grazing become only a warning and not a reality?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e108	As I said in my first answer, it is not to hide that it is demanding to work on such a different goal as caring for grazing animals and predators. That's why it's very important that we get a clear zone management, where it's clear that there must be grazing animals, and there must be predators. That is why we also come back to Stortinget after there has now been a review of wolf zones to get a clearer zone management and also to a greater extent to define what a damage potential is. It's not like you can only shoot a predator that comes into an area, if it's a roaming animal. This must be done in a clean and good manner in close cooperation with the predatory wildlife subjects. The Minister of Agriculture and Food and I had a meeting with the wild game students last December and I'm going to have a new meeting now on 2 June just about a good zone management, which I think is one of the most important answers to a demanding question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e113	Rigmor Andersen Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e116	The Christian People's Party will have a strong commitment to preventive action against predatory injuries in order to reduce the loss of animals on pasture. State councils today state, and have stated, that she sees it as very important to take conflict-reduction measures in the forest management. I agree. In today's edition of the Newspaper The Nations, we can read that the Regional Councils point out ‘that the report of predators is leading to the absence of predators representing a potential damage in priority pastures’. My question to the Council of State is simple: How does the Council of State define ‘priority grazing area’?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e124	The answer to this needs to be put in place through a clearer zone management, where it becomes clear that in that zone it is the grazing animals that have the right to drive, and in that zone it is the predators. Some of the conflict areas we now see are just that it's a little bit unclear which of the animals have priority in those zones. So getting a clearer zone management is one of the answers to a demanding question. It is also a demanding process to get a clearer zone management, but that is what we now need to do in close cooperation with regional predators. That's one of the things we're going to discuss with the denominators when we're going to have the joint meeting with the Ministry of Agriculture and Food on 2 June this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e131	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e134	The two-part objective of the predatory game deal is very important. Points 2.2.10 and 2.2.12 of the paper game agreement state that licensing is the main instrument for taking out yours and bear. A quota is set for each harvest and – as has been said here – it is very important that the quotas are withdrawn. In the winter of 2013 and 2014, 20 pst were taken out. of the bear quota, 30 pst. of the Yurvequota. It is far from a withdrawal in accordance with the quotas recommended by the competent authorities. Does the Council agree that the hunting of licences as a tool in the predatory game agreement has failed in winter? And what will the government do to contribute to the fact that the licensing agreement is being followed up in the way it is stated in the robberies agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e143	The government is very concerned that we are following the intention of the robberies settlement, but also taking into account the Berne Convention and the Nature Diversity Act. The size has set a stocking target for wolf, bear, gloupe and yer – in the case of bear, we are below the stocking target, in the case of you, we are over – and using a licence trap to get pests out. Therefore, we gave us a short period of time back also permission to get extra in Sogn and Fjordane. It's just where we say that we now have a high level of preparedness and follow up on where there's a need to react faster and take out animals that shouldn't be in those areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e150	Rasmus Hansson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e153	Both in this debate and in the debate on the rapprochement, there is a strong and one-sided focus on taking out, shooting and other ways of removing predators. However, the agreement on predatory animals also sets a target for us to have viable predatory populations in Norwegian nature. The question is simple – in view of this focus on withdrawal: can the Council of State unequivocally confirm that the agreed stock targets in the predatory agreement are indicative and binding on the government's predatory policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e160	When I say that the government manages the policy after the robberies deal, and when the Storting has decided what stock targets we are going to have in the nation of Norway, it is also governing our predatory game policy. But we also say that, in addition to the Stortingen settlement, we take into account the nature diversity law and are concerned that the hunt for animals is also carried out in an ethically sound manner. Through international commitments, we have promised to take care of our predators under the Berne Convention. It's along these three areas that we run our predatory game policy. I see that there are strong feelings from both sides, and that might indicate that caring for a demanding area of two conflicting interests, makes us balance this fairly well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e167	Let's move on to the next question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e170	The House of God where believers gather has always been respected by the authorities as a sacred place – a sacred space that is not to be violated by violence and use of power. This forms the basis for what we call church asylum today. Churches and churchhouses are still seen as a sacred place where people can seek refuge in their extreme distress, giving room for peaceless and persecuted ones. For the time being, we have not seen any changes in the law governing the police's handling of these difficult church asylum cases. At the same time, we have seen that the Minister of Justice is clear that he wants to wind up the system of church asylum. Kirkeasyl is often a poor solution for most parties. We must therefore strive for a fair, predictable, humane and rapid procedure, so as to avoid this. But the church room has had such a claim and ransacked right for hundreds of years, even though it is not a legal arrangement. The Church has been given the opportunity to protect people in distress and desperation. It should remain that way, in addition to the principle of having respect for the sacred space. In Norway, this system has been widely respected, and the police have followed the instructions of politicians not to intervene if anyone has sought refuge in church asylum. However, there may be good reasons to look at different aspects of the field of asylum and immigration. But these can be very vulnerable people and should not be the way to show action. My question to the Minister of Justice is: Will the government abolish this historic arrangement of church asylum and thus no longer show the same respect for churches and other houses of God?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e183	Let me first say that the whole concept of church asylum is actually an attempt to review legitimate decisions in a state of law. There is something both the Church and others should be aware of. In the guidelines adopted by the Bondevik Government in 1999 — and still applicable — the sacredness of the Church and the sanctity of the Church are also very strongly underlined, but there is also a balance in those guidelines. The guidelines say that as a general rule – I stress it: as a general rule – you should not enter churches or prayer houses. The areas in which, as a general rule, power is not to be used are very narrow – even in this instruction promoted by the Christian People's Party government. This government has been clear in the government statement that we want to abolish the system of church asylum. We believe it is an attempt to review legal decisions in a legal state. We have now launched a process in which the Directorate of Police is in dialogue with the Church to find a sensible solution to this challenge. What has created debate this week is a specific case where the police have picked up former asylum seekers who are not legally present in Norway. It was implemented within the guidelines given by the Bondevik Government in 1999. So we're still going to have respect for the church room – it's important for this government – but at the same time it's important that people deal with the legitimate decisions in the state of law in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e192	I thank you for the answer, but church asylum has been a historic arrangement there has been cross-political agreement. Yes, today's rules are 15 years old, and after that we might have got more new kinds of things, including. Convertible matter. Now we know that according to the asylum agreement we have just worked on, an investigation is going on, where we know that both the UN and the EU guidelines say that perhaps some of these Convertits and Church Asylum cases had been legal then – that is, they have the right to stay legally. At the same time, I see that there may be an immortality out there and go about what is a sacred room. Then my question is, how far has this work come with regard to the asylum agreement in order to move on to this point?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e202	We have started work on the investigation, and as the representative is familiar with it, we consult the cooperation parties in Stortinget on how the matters under the cooperation agreement will be fulfilled. But I think it is right to stress – since the representative deals with Convertits – that this is a matter that is assessed by UDI and UNE during the handling of the asylum case, and I find it strange that a representative in the elected assembly believes that it should be up to different authorities to take decisions taken by administrative bodies where all these matters have been assessed. So the whole concept of the church asylum system, which the representative believes has hundreds of years of history, is an overrun of the rule of law and legally adopted decisions. I cannot understand anything other than that it is in everyone's interest that this type of scheme should be used to the minimum possible. Therefore, it is important for us to be in dialogue with the Church in order to find a lasting solution and arrangement to this, so that we do not encourage anyone to try to avoid legal decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e209	It opens for follow-up questions – first Kjell Ingolf Roppstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e212	First, on behalf of the legislative assembly, I have to be allowed to say that we are in our full right to discuss the starting point for the laws. What the representative, Mr Tuskedal, was also concerned about, is that in the cooperation agreement, we have some points to go through the treatment of converts. It is known that in some cases people who have converted from, for example: Islam to Christianity, asked just to keep quiet that they are Christians when they are sent back to a country where they are in danger of being killed if they have converted. Just such a review must be discussed in this room. I have registered, and now also see, that the Minister of Justice is clear that he will abolish the system of church asylum. At the same time, I also see that the bishops are very clear that they do not think it is a good arrangement. In the weekend, there is a freedom that is also relevant, so it is not only the Norwegian Church that the Minister of Justice needs to have a dialogue with, but also with the religious communities. If it is true that the religious communities do not want to wind up the scheme, how does the Minister of Justice want to ensure that it happens by Christmas 2014, as he has said?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e219	The last one is probably a mix-up. What I have said is that there will be no amnesty in the Christmas season in 2014. Then, in dialogue with the Church and other religious communities, we're going to work to find a solution that allows us to avoid anyone trying to circumvent legitimate decisions. I have no interest in putting any lid on the debate in Stortinget. Rather, on the contrary, I think it is very good that all matters are debated in Stortinget. What I think is a paradox is that some people seem to be defending a system outside the system because they disagree with the decisions taken on the basis of the majority in this room, and the instructions to which UDI and UNE are going to deal. That is what I think is objectionable in a state of law – which I assume the representative of Ropstad agrees that we have: that one should try to legitimise a system on the outside of the state of law because a single congregation believes that the decision taken by the authorities is wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e226	Eirik Sivertsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e229	The church asylum system, which has been in the hands of former questioners, has been going on for many years. It is also a tradition to respect the peace of the church room as a sacred ground. I understand that the Minister of Justice needs to show the power of action, but I still think it is a little strange that you almost as a provocation go loose on the church asylum. I understand that the police procedure in Kristiansand has caused reactions. Having said that, I can be quite clear that the Workers’ Party does not think that church asylum is desirable. But we have nevertheless chosen to respect the tradition that has been, and also given some guidance on how this should be handled, because it has been a long tradition. My question to the Minister of Justice is: precisely because he also refers to the guidelines that exist, is there any political signal on how this should be handled, and does not the Minister of Justice agree that when it is politically determined how it should be handled – if it is to be abolished – one cannot leave it to a debate between the Church and the Police Directorate, one must have a political decision on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e238	I fully agree, and so those guidelines are made by the government, so it is in case the government has to deal with any political changes to the guidelines. But we haven't changed the guidelines, they work great as they are today. If there is a need to make changes to the guidelines based on the dialogue we now want with church communities and different religious communities, we will, of course, consider it. I am glad that the Workers' Party is still against church asylum, although it was not very marked during their reign. But I must say that I also react to the fact that the representative believes that there is reason to react strongly to the police's behaviour in Kristiansand. I fundamentally disagree with that. The apprehension and broadcast took place according to the guidelines adopted by the Bondevik Government, which were followed up by the Labour Party Government and which are also followed by this Government. There is a lot of discussion about claims based on information from one side in this case. I think it's important to bring the whole picture before you conclude.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e247	Jenny Klinge – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e250	The question of church asylum raises a lot of feelings, and that's what we're talking about here today. Changing governments have had as politics that the church room is sacred, and that the use of coercive means from the public does not belong there. Refugee and asylum policies have many aspects, and the broad lines of this policy are broadly consistent. I think it's important to stress that the number of those who are in church asylum is not large. The church sounds decide for themselves if they want to receive people and give them protection. I think a lot of people don't feel like sitting in church rooms like a free port. On the contrary, there is a desperate situation for those involved. I see that there are undoubtedly several aspects to this matter, but I think it is worth asking questions about whether the number of people in church is really a problem, and whether the role played by the Minister of Justice in the media yesterday is mostly an expression of a desire to act.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e259	This play was due to the fact that I was challenged by a newspaper, and the councils have the habit of answering when newspapers want answers to their questions. In addition, there has been no outing by the Ministry of Justice and Defence. But I feel a need to defend the police when they do things right, and when they get criticism to do things right, I think it's my job to tell them that they have actually followed the guidelines that Jenny Klinge's government has also dealt with. Nor is it right that it is excluded from the use of power in the church room. Historically, we have often had church asylums who have gone to church asylum without the church's wish. It has created great challenges for the churches that it has been like this. So that image is considerably more complex than the representative that Klinge is now expressing. The guidelines say that as a general rule you should not go in. Neither have the police. They did not enter a church room; they did not enter a prayer house. They went into an apartment in another building. I think it's respectful, because then the police do their job, and we're going to stimulate it and not criticize it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e268	Abid Q. Raja - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e272	I read in the VG in December that the new government had announced a battle over the church asylum, and that the bishops reacted strongly and feared that the police would be sent into the churches. I have neither entered my children's shoes in the church nor attended special bishops daily, but I am very concerned that the bishops fear the government and fear the police. I'm very busy with dialogue and I've learned that you're coming very far with dialogue. In this respect, I wonder very specifically from the Minister of Justice: does the Council of State intend to bring a specific case to the Stortinget, so that the Stortinget will be able to decide whether or not to wind up the church asylum system? And can the Minister of Justice thus reassure all the bishops and churches that they do not need to fear the government and the police, because it is the Stortinge that will decide this?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e279	I think that was a very interesting question, because the church asylum system is not a law, it's not an institution. It has no legitimate protection in this room, it has a protection through a year-long view of how to deal with the church room. But that's not what the representative says, that this is something that the Storting has adopted as an acceptable scheme. Rather, on the contrary, in Stortinget I have registered a very large majority against a system that means that you can circumvent legal decisions. I also record that the representative is concerned that the Church fears the ministry and the government on this issue. I'm really afraid that the views of the bishops help us not to solve this challenge, because this is not just a challenge to a state of law that gets congregations to review legitimate decisions. It's also a problem for the Church. It's also about how the Church should act in these kinds of cases, and that's why we have a dialogue with the Church to see how we can solve this in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e286	You can think a lot of things about church asylum, but up through the ages it's saved lives. I think we have to agree on that. The practice that has been in Norway has not resulted in any explosion in the number of people in church asylum, and that is precisely – as several people in front of me have said – because it is very demanding both for the congregation that experiences it and for those who sit there. Now we hear that the government is going to tighten up on various types of conversion requests, which means that there will be less opportunities to look at the matter again. My soul has engaged me in some of these cases where someone has been sitting in church asylum, where we have managed to collect money so that he has managed to raise his case before the Norwegian court, and the Norwegian court has said that the administration was wrong. He was entitled to asylum. Does the Council of State think that it is wrong that someone should in this way raise their case, and see that the administration can sometimes actually be wrong, and that that's why people go to church asylum?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e295	As far as requests for conversion are concerned, this has been dealt with earlier in the Storting and it has been decided to intensify the rules on requests for conversion. That, of course, is being implemented. I am not familiar with cases to which the representative, Andersen, specifically refers, that church asylum should have saved lives. Of course, I have nothing against people collecting money to go to court to try and review administrative decisions. However, I know that Andersen’s representative disagrees with the immigration policy pursued in Norway, but then she has to work to change that policy – not to help secure schemes that create gaps in a legal state’s handling of such issues. So when you finally have a refusal to apply for asylum and are about to leave, you are illegal in Norway; you have a duty to leave, and you have no right to hide in a church or anywhere else.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e304	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e307	My question goes to the Minister of Justice: Just before Easter, the European Court of Justice ruled that the so-called data storage directive is illegal. It is not every day that a European Court of Justice determines that a directive is contrary to the fundamental rights of its citizens. That's what they've done here. That's good, and thus one has no basis for launching a massive surveillance of citizens without any basis in criminal matters. I expect the Minister of Justice will be happy about that. He has previously made a very clear statement about the Data Storage Directive and said two years ago, among other things. the following: ‘I believe that the Data Storage Directive is really about what we perceive as freedom. We boast of being a nation where the individual is free and legal certainty well cared for. In my opinion, freedom from surveillance is an essential part of the concept of freedom." Those were clear words. Now, the Council of State has every opportunity to ensure that the directive is actually removed once and for all – and that should be in the middle of the flash for one who also believed that the directive was such a clear violation of the principle of freedom that it was rocked by the very foundation of the Constitution. I suppose I should just assume that the Minister of Justice is standing by his words from then on, but I ask for security reasons: can we count on the data storage directive being put away for good now?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e319	I think it is very nice that the representative quotes an unusually good quote from the Storing representative Anundsen, even though it was some time ago. The Data Storage Directive has already been deleted. There is no longer, it has by definition been removed as a directive, and the consequence is that that discussion has been completed in a way. Then there is the question of the implementation of the measures adopted by the Stortinget as Norway's follow-up to the Data Storage Directive: I would like to refer to what the Prime Minister said in an earlier spontaneous question hour, namely that the government will return to the Stortinget in an appropriate way to see how to deal with that situation in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e328	I was told that the Council of State was not going to be as clear as he was a few years ago, and that he was going to speak a little in the same street as the Prime Minister did just before Easter, and which unfortunately is not entirely reassuring, namely that the seas if the directive is now under way, one will nevertheless consider the measures contained in the decision of the Storting for a few years ago. I can understand that the Prime Minister says that, because she probably also feels a bit bound by the agreement that was between several parties in that area. The Progress Party, on the other hand, was not part of it, so it is still possible to ask: in what way will the Progress Party and the Trade Councils actively contribute to the whole process now being set aside, so that we can discuss on a free basis what kind of legislation we want and what kind of legislation we do not want in Norway in this area – regardless of the EU directive, but also of the agreements that the Stortinget has previously concluded on the basis of the directive?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e335	As the representative says, the Progress Party was not part of any agreement, so it has to tell the contracting parties how they will deal with it. What has happened in the European Court of Justice is, of course, an emphasis on what was at the heart of the political discussion in the introduction of DLD in Norway. I believe that we now have a very good opportunity to discuss this on a much more freer basis, taking into account that by definition the Data Storage Directive no longer exists. But the practical follow-up I must be allowed to come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e342	Follow-up questions are given – first Geir Pollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e345	I understand that the Progress Party is not part of the agreement that was concluded in its time between the Workers' Party and the Right. However, the Progress Party is a member of the government that is now sitting. After all, when this matter was up for debate, it was as if the resistance to the Data Storage Directive were combined, that one basic principle was that one should collect information about all those who were in Norway – and their telecommunications – in order to ensure evidence of crimes that had still not been committed. It was this that combined the resistance. Then my question is: when you create a new national data storage code, does one have the same starting point, or does it take a more general and traditional approach to both evidence protection and privacy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e355	This is going to be a slightly complicated question to answer. As I've been to the past, there's a disagreement between the parties that sit in the government about DLD. We were aware of that when we were negotiating in Nydalen. At that time, the judgment of the European Court of Justice was not available. The situation we now have is new, and that means we have to follow up on this in practice, and look at what it means for the Norwegian implementation. Then there are strong opinions in the Storting about this, and it is quite natural that the strong opinions are expressed both in this hall and in the discussions outside, and the parties have very different starting points for what is right and wrong in that regard. I believe that both the representative Pollestad and I must have respect for that, and that means that the answer to the representative Pollestad will be the same as I gave, namely that the practical follow-up to how this will be resolved in the future, the government must have time to deal with it before we do anything more about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e362	Kari Henriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e365	In regulating traffic data storage, authorities are required to manage the balance between crime prevention and privacy in a good way. The decision of the European Court of Justice shows how demanding it is to achieve such a balance. It is therefore positive that we have an ongoing debate on how best to achieve this good regulation, which also takes account of people's privacy. Since the European Court of Justice found the Data Protection Directive invalid earlier this year, the government stated that it would now take time to review the significance of the judgment for the Norwegian legislation, and it repeats the Minister here today and refers to the dilemma that this review entails. But it's important that it doesn't go too long before such an assessment is presented, and it hasn't just flooded with issues from the government to the Stortinget, so I wonder, can the minister give any timeline for when such an assessment will come to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e372	I learned very quickly as a government council that dating deliveries from the government is an unusually dangerous exercise, and therefore I will not do that this time either. But the government has a very strong pressure to deliver quickly, precisely because one has the decision as a background for the job that is now to be done after reviewing the judgment. And it is quite right, as the representative Henriksen says, that the relationship between privacy and the fight against crime are important dilemmas in a legal state. It also makes it so complex that it is important to deliver something that has been thoroughly worked out. So I do not dare to date when this work is finished, but more processes have been started in the government to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e379	Sveinung Rotevatern – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e382	Since the European Court of Justice gave the minority right in this Chamber, several representatives from the government have repeatedly said that we must ensure that this does not become a legitimate room, that we must have regulation. It is also under the authority of the state council. But I don't understand. Because we're not talking about a decent room. We have regulations. We have the EU Data Protection Directive, we have the EU Communication Directive, which is implemented in the e-communications law, which regulates the storage, processing, security and not least the deletion of telecommunications and communications data. But what distinguishes them from the Data Storage Directive is that they base the principle that it is the citizen himself who should have self-control over his personal data and that that is the basic principle. It was the basic principle of the Data Storage Directive that went away by imposing mass storage without further conditions, and not least without suspicion, and that is the principle that the European Court of Justice has broken down. Therefore, I would like to repeat the question from the representative Pollestad, whom the Council of State thought was complicated, and therefore did not respond to: Is the principle of mass storage now put away in the government's work, or is it still there in the work that is currently being carried out?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e389	The government will come back to that. The backbone is that the Data Storage Directive as such has not been adopted in Stortinget, but the implementation and legislative changes have been adopted in this process. The government has to deal with this, and if the government is going to do something else, the government has to come up with a real case about it. I understand that the representative Rotevatn is impatient, but I think it will be in everyone's interest that the work now done is thorough and good. If you want to take the opposite of the representative, you can also ask questions about the extent to which the decision of the Court of Justice actually affects the legislative changes that Stortinget has already adopted. So there's a lot of perspectives in this case that need to be illuminated, and that's going to be done by the government in a thorough and good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e400	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e403	When the matter was dealt with in Stortinget, the then representative of Aundsen believed that this rocked at the very foundation of the Constitution, and that it was only the most naive who thought that this could help fight crime. And then I guess it can't be the paper 'Data Storage Directive' we're talking about, because that must be the implementation of the law that's under it. That is why it is important to hear about the Minister of Justice, who has major challenges and needs for large sums of money for other major tasks in his area, has no other tasks he would rather spend money on, because this is expensive measures, rather than throwing money out of the window on measures adopted by the Stortinget, but to which it is possible for the government to come back to the Stortinget and say no – that is, to throw money out of the window on measures taken by the representative, when he was sitting on the Stortinget, thought that the Constitution was broken, and that only the most naïve would contribute to the fight against crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e408	Both I and the Progress Party believe the same thing today as we meant when the quotation referred to by Andersen was said from this pulpit. This is a question where government parties have had a different approach. We've been in disagreement before we joined the government. The views of the lots have not changed since then. But when I stand here, I stand here as a representative of the government. The government has started this work and will return to Stortinget in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e415	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e419	My question goes to the Minister for Climate and Environment. As the Minister is aware, ESA has accused Norway of a breach of the EU Local Air Quality Directive. In the worst days of winter, many, especially with airway problems, cannot move outdoors in Norwegian cities, such as Oslo and Bergen. Of course, this is an unacceptable situation, and it is important that we take action that has a short and long-term impact. In Norway, municipalities are responsible for local air quality and are therefore responsible for implementing measures. This indicated Sundtoft until when she was challenged by the Swedish Government in the ordinary questionnaire a month ago about what action the state will take. The challenge is that municipalities have too few tools to reduce emissions. In order to be able to comply with the Directive, stronger and much more targeted measures are needed than are currently allowed by local authorities. In Oslo, we wanted to introduce both the ban on driving diesel cars in the worst days and the establishment of low-emission zones where the diesel vehicle is not allowed to drive in. These are the single measures that would fit the most. Among other things in Stockholm, low-carbon zones have helped very well in air quality. Bergen has asked for the opportunity to differentiate their taxes on the environment. The red-green government in its time said no to introduce these measures, while from today's government we have not yet received a clear answer. The municipality of Oslo sent a letter with an invitation to cooperate on this a month ago, but we have not yet received an answer to that letter. I therefore hope that I can get a clear response from the Minister for Climate and Environment here today: Will the Council of State give municipalities new tools to improve air quality?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e434	We received a message on 26 March from ESA that they are proceeding with the case against Norway for breach of the Air Quality Directive. It is correct that I answered in the questionnaire that it is the municipalities that are responsible. We are committed by the state to giving the municipalities room for action to discharge this responsibility. The State has contributed directly, including: by means of lower charges for environmentally friendly vehicles, which means that Norway is now the world’s country with the most electric cars. Indirectly, we have given municipalities the opportunity to introduce cow pricing, increased tolls on days of high air pollution, environmental limit values, temporary traffic regulation measures and to adopt heavy-duty tyres. Then we see that not all municipalities have used the tools that you have and that are possible to use. Maybe we need new tools to answer what we got from ESA. I don't think ESA is going to give up in this case. We have to do something about air quality in some of the Norwegian metropolitan cities. I think this is also a new issue for Norway, which is now one of Europe's biggest urban growth countries, that we need to think about policies in a different way, among others. reducing traffic, because we have air pollution challenges in our cities. So we're busy in close dialogue with the municipalities to see if you need to have new measures, or if it's the municipalities that need to implement the measures that you already have. I am pleased to record that the Municipality of Oslo is very offensive in its climate and environmental policies and is taking this challenge seriously, so we want to get this done together with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e447	I would like to challenge a little further on a concrete measure that I think would have a positive effect. The main source of local air pollution is road traffic and, in order to reduce emissions, it is important that municipalities have the opportunity to impose zero-emission or low-emission requirements on the transport sector. In the evening post today, Højres Nikolai Astrup is taking the floor to make such demands, among other things. to the taxi industry, as from 2015. Today, the law does not give room to make such demands, and the state has in a consultation opinion on a proposal from the Municipality of Oslo on environmental requirements for the precisely taxi industry, expressed itself critically and said that the municipalities do not have the right to impose such requirements. So my question to the Council of State Sundtoft is what her arguments are for not giving the municipalities this opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e456	As Melby's representative is very aware, this is the responsibility of a department other than the Ministry of Climate and Environment. It illustrates the scale of the cross-sectoral climate and environmental challenges. I can't give the representative a good answer to that now, but I say that we want close cooperation with the municipalities, but also close cooperation with the different departments. We want to sit down with the municipalities to look at what we have to do to respond to this challenge that ESA has given us. I do not think this is a problem that goes beyond this, and I am pleased to record several offensive proposals from the representative of Astrup today. We're going to have a country meeting in the Right to the Weekend. There are many good resolutions about the environment and climate. The understanding that we are going to transform this society into a low-carbon society, where we have to do something about the transport sector, which, once again, means something to the air quality of cities, is far greater now than too soon, and we are taking that with us, together with the municipalities, to find answers to this challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e463	It opens for follow-up questions – first Terje Breivik.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e466	As a big representative from Hordaland and Bergen, I am well acquainted with this subject. I can confirm the problem with the main query to get more tools in place. In Bergen we know that a very effective tool will be to get public transport from diesel buses to electricity or gas, preferably biogas. In the climate agreement, we agreed to create a biogas strategy to ensure that a larger vehicle is transferred to biogas, at the same time as we also get the gas produced. The question is short: When can the Storting expect to see such a bioga strategy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e473	Such government councilman Anundsen answered a question earlier today: You have to learn that you can't say when something comes to Stortinget. We have now decided that we should start developing a biogas strategy. It is a complex work involving many departments, but it is important to see whether biogas can replace other forms of energy. For the moment, we see that it's probably quite expensive, so we'll get some of the same challenges here as in other new technologies, where one has to be willing to take a higher cost in a transitional phase. We have begun to investigate this, but I dare not say when it comes to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e478	Eva Kristin Hansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e481	As the questioner said, car traffic is challenging in terms of air pollution, but there is also a problem with regard to greenhouse gas emissions. If we are to reduce air pollution, we must do something about driving and driving. The cooperation with the municipalities is, as I said earlier here, absolutely essential in order to bring down car traffic, but you also have to take more action than that. The Council of State itself said that she wanted to take an initiative towards other departments, and then I wonder what concrete initiatives the Council of State will take, perhaps especially towards the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Finance, in order to bring down car traffic. Is the Council of State and her government ready to introduce restrictive measures? Are you ready to use charges? We have seen that charges work very well in the case of electric cars. The previous representative took up biogas, which is a very good fuel, especially for buses in the big cities, and that there is a bioga strategy announced. Doesn't the Council really have any opinion about when it can come? It's pretty important for us in Stortinget to have a sense of when things come.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e488	It's a pretty complicated job to develop a biogas strategy, so we've started that work, but I can't answer when it comes to Stortinget. We need a review of the car and vehicle charges to look at just how to use the charging policy to get cars that emit less CO2. Norwegian electric car policy is, of course, a shining example of making changes when we use the charging policy wisely. The finance minister has told VG that it looks like we're getting 3 billion now. kr less in the treasury in 2014 due to large sales of electric cars. But as the Minister of Finance said, this is a wild policy. There is a change there has been a broad political consensus about moving towards the low-carbon society, which can also satisfy what ESA is concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e496	Ingunn Gjerstad - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e500	Like several others here, I'm worried about the air quality in Oslo. In addition, we know that the Minister for Climate and Environment is very poor in achieving the objectives of the Storting climate settlement. The government is now planning to extend the E18 towards Oslo with up to 14 lanes at most. That is why I ask: does the Council of State believe that the development of the E18 will improve or worsen air quality in Oslo? And will E18 make it easier or more difficult to achieve the goals of the Great Britain climate settlement?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e505	We build roads to connect the country and to make traffic safer. The most important thing is which cars run on those roads, because it is the cars that account for the large emissions. As I said in my previous answer, we now want to stimulate more people to buy low or zero-emission cars through a favourable tax policy and to develop demands for new public vehicles to use zero or low-emission technologies. In addition, we are working to make rail and public transport more attractive. When the representative mentions the 14 fields here in Oslo, it's a little bit misleading. The 14 fields are both local roads, motorway fields and collective fields. I think the new E18 will also be positive for public transport around Oslo. We get a coherent collective field that I think is also good for emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e510	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e513	The Climate Panel recently presented a new report that concludes that climate conditions are more serious than we thought. We've got a bad time. We need to work harder and, as soon as possible, take action to avoid serious consequences. The Minister for Climate Change does not have to go far to find action that works. The Minister for Climate Change has already acted in a state of disappointment. The Environment Directorate proposes a series of measures that will reduce emissions by up to 8 million tonnes by 2020, as required by the climate agreement. The last time the climate minister was in Stortinget, she said that the climate agreement is firm and will be strengthened, and that the state budget for 2015 will take action that will do just that. But while the Minister for Climate Change says she will come back to Stortinget, other ministers are coming along with proposals for measures that will increase emissions. The government has cut the funds for Transnova, it is cut in the capture and storage of CO2, one has rejected proposals for an increase in the CO2 charge for heavy goods vehicles, it will build a wider route into the major cities, cut the bioenergy effort in agriculture and relax climate requirements in the oil industry. For this government, it seems easier to come up with measures to increase emissions than to come up with measures to reduce emissions. My question to the Minister is simply: What kind of dialogue is there between the climate minister and the other ministers in meeting the climate agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e528	I guess no one came to realize that I said quite clearly here on 12 February that the climate agreement is firm. It stands firm, and we have said that we must strengthen it. It was also this government that asked for a report from the Environment Directorate to find out where we are in relation to the 2020 targets when we know that we have a gap of 8 million tonnes. We now have several milestones in the climate work. The first is next year: Work to establish an international climate agreement in Paris. Norway plays an active role in that work. Together with the EU, last week we were hosting 35 progressive countries seeking an international climate agreement. We're constantly working in the government, but what we've told us to do is work for a long-term transition to the low-carbon society. There are no quick solutions to a proper conversion. It involves many departments. That is why we have also said that we want to use state budgets to respond to this challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e533	Frankly, President! This is starting to look like a humor parade. Here came the exact same answer as what we got from the question we asked on the previous crossroads. The point of the question is that the Storting will get an insight into what the government's work is. In this way, it is not only possible to support the formulations of the government platform that this is fixed, over and over again, and that this will come back to the state budget. Then one has not answered the question that comes from Stortinget. There is a gap in many measures, which will lead to an increase in greenhouse gas emissions. So the Stortinget Minister for Climate Change keeps asking: What is the plan for the climate area? The Minister for Climate Change is the leader of government work. What does the climate minister do to meet this? One can't get back to Stortinget without a proper answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e538	Converting a society is a major challenge. So we also have to do it in a good way. I have said that the state budget is the most important tool. No government budget is provided between February and May. In the meantime, we have provided a big message about the State pension fund abroad. We've almost doubled environmental investment. This government has also increased the appropriations for rail in the current year's budget. We've spent 100 million dollars. kr to a pan-European research project on carbon capture at NTNU. New power concessions for water and wind are distributed. We continue our extensive rainforesting activity. We're working on concrete things. But the big conversion is of such a character that there are no quick fix solutions where I can get to Stortinget once a month and tell you what we're doing. We work cross-ministerially with this. Now I specifically mentioned that SPU is an action that has been presented since 12 February.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e543	There will be follow-up questions – first Karin Andersen. The President would also like to comment that there might be other ways to get to Stortinget than the representative of Knag Fylkesnes used on this occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e548	A climate minister to meet the climate agreement must be a low-emission or zero-emission minister. Currently, there is zero release of policies and measures — while other ministers come to the Grand Council each month, as this minister says it is not possible to do, with issues that increase climate emissions. To a question from the representative of Ingunn Gjerstad instead, who was involved in major road constructions, the minister said: I think it is good for public transport and the climate. It shows that the Minister does not have an overview of the climate policy effects of measures presented by the government as a whole. Then it's not useful to get into question hours for question hours without a single concrete answer to what to do to reduce climate change emissions, when we know that they have to go down by 8 million tons. Then I would like to ask: does the Minister for Climate Change know how much climate has become of the issues that the government has put forward now?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e555	What I have said over and over again is that converting Norway into a low-carbon society requires efforts from many departments. It was the Minister of Finance who came to the Stortinget and presented almost a doubling of the environmental mandate of the State pension fund abroad. It is the Minister for Transport who presented increased appropriations for rail in 2014. It is the Minister of Oil and Energy who has given new power concessions to water and wind this year. I have said that it is my constitutional responsibility, but the government is working together on this. There are concrete things coming and coming. But we say that the most important conversion is what we do through taxes and taxes. We are now working on a green tax reform, which will take place before the summer. We're working on tax deductions for an investment in wealth. It happens in departments other than my department. So you're well informed about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e560	Eva Kristin Hansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e564	I think it's a good idea, if you're going to get control of greenhouse gas emissions, to have an overview of how the different sectors affect just the greenhouse gas emissions. SV has made an excellent proposal to have a climate budget, precisely to get an overview of the impact of the various sectors on emissions. I'm a little confused by this seance, because the council says there's a lot of places you can do something. But it doesn't seem like she has the overview of what's actually happening. It does not seem that she wants to bring together the different measures in one strategy. What the government has said is that there are hardly any climate messages coming. It has been mentioned that some measures may be presented in the revised version. Of course you have to use the state budget – that is quite obvious. But how does the Minister see that all the measures can be brought together, so that we in the Stortingen get insight into how to bring down the 8 million tonnes of CO2 emissions and what strategy does the government have? We in Stortinget will be involved in that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e572	Now it is this Council of States that asked for an overview from the Environment Directorate of the gap we have been given. In that report, we see exactly which sectors emit greenhouse gas. We have a good overview of this. That's why we know that we have to work across the sectors. I have also said that in the revised national budget, we are returning to Norway's international work in the field of climate change. We have said that we want to use the state budget to get work done on this. In the case of a greenhouse gas budget, the national budget forecasts future emissions. So it's not always that we need new suggestions about what we need in this context. We know what the challenges are. We have a challenge to reduce climate change emissions by 8 million tonnes of CO2. That's what this government has come up with. We know what the challenges are, and we work across departments to meet that challenge nationally, while at the same time working internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e582	Rigmor Andersen Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e585	To my question, I hope that the Council of State will be concrete. She has promised to return to Stortinget, and now the Council of State is back. The Christian People's Party has been fighting for a long time to establish a climate law in Norway. We believe this is a decisive measure in the climate struggle. According to the climate agreement, the appropriateness of the implementation of a climate law shall be assessed. Former Councillor Solhell did nothing with this assessment following the 2012 climate agreement. Now six months have passed with new government and new state council, and the Christian People's Party is once again impatient. The question is: does this minister have a better timetable than the previous one?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e592	The last time Andersen Eide asked that question, I said we should start the investigation. We have taken it seriously that the climate agreement has said that we should assess the appropriateness of a climate law. Currently, there is an internal process in the ministry. We'll evaluate the device at work. We're very concerned that we're adding up to an open, public recording process, where everyone wants to be invited to contribute to the investigation. I think it's important to ask some open questions: what can such climate laws give us, which we don't have today? We've seen what you've done in other countries. They have a different approach to this. We have to have our way of doing this. We have a very comprehensive environmental legislation, so it may not be the law itself that is important. But there are elements in other countries' climate laws that can be useful for us to get. So this we're putting forward an open recording round about right after the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e597	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e600	I understand that it is demanding to be a climate minister and should embrace almost all sectors where there are climate-related impacts. But it must mean something when you transform the role of the Minister of Environmental Protection into the Minister of Climate and Environment. This has to mean something for the other sectors as well. I feel that this is probably a matter for Stortinget: what kind of role should the climate minister have? What kind of view should the Minister for Climate Change have — also linked to the other areas? There are two current issues that can have a major impact on the climate. One is a question relating to the electrification of Utsira — i.e. by the oil platforms — and to the ability and ability to base own policy assessments on both profitability and implementation. The second is that...
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e607	That's it. That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e610	Yes, then we can say: How does the Council of State view this as a climate minister? How does the State Council, as Minister for Climate Change, want to make a difference in the various areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e615	I believe we were shown to the outside world on 13 March this year how this government is working on climate policy. At that time we had the government's climate conference, where several government councils told what they were working on – oil and energy, transport, finance, food and food ministers – where the prime minister was also clear that the responsibility of the Minister for Climate and Environment is to have a cross-sectoral responsibility, while the real policy, the practical policy, takes place in the departments responsible for it. So I think we're pretty clear that we've started a long-term conversion project, which requires a broad commitment from many departments. We were shown on March 13 how we work, and we're going to get back to the Storing with politics on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e620	Guri Melby – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e624	This debate reflects the impatience of the Storting against strong measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. It also reflects that the Stortinget wants the Minister for Climate and Environment to take a stronger responsibility and a clearer initiative towards other sectors and other sectoral authorities. In such a debate, there are many individual measures that could have been drawn forward and requested, but one of the most low-hanging fruits in terms of reducing greenhouse gas emissions is in the country's own business, and then I am thinking specifically of cutting fossil energy for heating in state buildings. The Municipality of Oslo adopted this a few years ago and has now become oil-free. It was relatively easy to implement. This is a market where technologies exist and where alternatives are good. And according to the climate agreement, there will be no fossil warming in state or municipal businesses in 2018, so my question to the Council of State is: Has the Council contacted its government colleagues to ask for concrete plans from the state companies to ensure that the oil fires are phased out by 2018 at the latest?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e631	I share the impatience of the representative in this area. I think many more share the impatience of the reports presented by the United Nations Panel on Climate Change in a short period of time. We now know a lot more about what our national challenges are, and that change is all about everything from the long-term projects to the very concrete ones that the representative Melby now mentioned. The answer is, of course, yes, that's the kind of thing we're discussing in the government – what we can do in the short term and in the longer term. This is regularly up to discussion in the government, but I can't now say anything more about when that phase-out takes place.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e636	Rasmus Hansson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e639	After eight years with a red-green government, we know very much about what climate policy does not cut Norwegian emissions. Then we have a new government that has promised to conduct a better climate policy, and therefore it is no wonder that it gives increasing attention to the fact that the Council of State appears first and foremost as the purely equilibrist in answering nothing to questions about concrete climate action. On a previous question today, the Council of State replied that there was no ‘quick fix’ for climate change in Norway. It's a positive error. It's possible to cut 1 to 2 million tons in Mongstad, it's possible to cut a snout million on Snow White, it's possible to cut a snout million in Brevik – just to mention 4 million tons that you can bring with you once. Does the Council of State intend to do this, or does the Council of State not intend to do this?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e646	I have not received a mandate from either the government or the magnificence to stop the specific issues that the representative Hansson here mentions, tomorrow. What we've said is that we're going to take Norway towards a low-carbon society. We are committed to using the oil wealth we have to make a wise transition – spending more money on research, on knowledge, on infrastructure to enable us to live on something other than oil and gas in Norway in the future. We're going to do that in a wise way. We know that 30 pst. today's revenue comes from oil and gas – we can't turn off the oil tap overnight, but we're taking it seriously. We also work internationally to get a price of CO2 that will speed up such a conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e654	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e657	My question goes to the Minister of Justice. In the last few weeks there has been a lot of discussion about so-called sleeping quarters. The question then has to be whether it is as serious as any other type of pick, whether the damage potential is equal, whether it can be compensated for, for example. assault check. It's an important thing because the historical context is also that it's special in these kinds of cases that women have experienced that their integrity is being questioned. There are many actors who have shared in that discussion, but there is one who has gleaned with his absence, and it is the Minister of Justice himself. When he has been asked about this, his political adviser has replied that this is something the Minister of Justice cannot go into now. That is why I thought that I would just give the Minister of Justice the opportunity to answer whether he thinks that so-called sleeping quarters can be reconciled with any other type of electoral system.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e664	That question has been resolved in the penal code today. I'm behind what's the penal code's assessment of this. Rape is a rape — if you use people who are unconscious, or if you use force or threats to achieve sexual intercourse. Then there's a graduation in terms of punishment, which I'm absolutely sure the representative has an overview of, which we obviously have to deal with. I note some frustration from the head of the Justice Committee that I am not participating in all the debates she wants me to participate in. Luckily, I still have the freedom that I can choose for myself which plays from the representative who comes with the play, I want to comment. I also don't always comment on all the games that come from different psychologists or psychiatrists who want the Minister of Justice to engage in a debate. I believe this question is quite clear: Sleep violence is equal in law to another type of rape.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e671	Once I have called the Minister of Justice in this discussion, it is not because I find any pleasure in spending more time with the Minister of Justice or exchanging additional words with the relevant person – that is because this matter is important. She adopted a lot of people. It's a fundamentally important question. Now I'm glad that the Minister of Justice in this room is expressing that sleepover suits can be reconciled with any other type of election, but until now he has shown that they have a legal work in the ministry that makes him unable to comment on this. What I am curious about then is: What is it that the Minister of Justice feels that he has been working with the Ministry that he has not yet experienced that he has been able to participate in this discussion?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e676	Let me first say that I find it sad that the representative does not like to spend more time with me. I think it's very interesting and often very enjoyable to spend time with the head of the Justice Committee. I think it contributes to good and fruitful political debates. What the ministry has to assess is a draft consultation which was sent out by the previous government, which is about expanding the concept of rape. This government has not taken a decision on whether or not to follow up. This did not happen to the previous government either – there were six months in the department without anything happening to it then, also because there were very different opinions on that issue at the hearing. That is the side of the case where I believe it is important that I do not conclude until the government has taken a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e683	It opens for follow-up questions – first Lene Wagslid.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e687	I want to ask my follow-up question to another State Council – to the Minister for Gender Equality. In the debate on electoral articles, the Minister for Gender Equality has a significant role to play. Many before her, such as Bekkemmelm, Huitfeldt and Thorkildsen, have our strong and clear voices in the debate for women who have been exposed to this. We know that especially for these types of warrants we're talking about here, there's been a great struggle to recognize this as an assault, and as the criminal action it is. Did you have a flirt with him earlier this evening? Maybe you were drunk? These are just some examples of questions that put an extra burden on the victim. In April, the Evening Post asked the Minister for Gender Equality if she thought there was a difference between rape and dormant suits. She wouldn't answer that then. That's why I want to give the Minister of Gender Equality the opportunity to answer in Stortinget and give a clear and clear answer to the girls who have been exposed to this. Is the Council of State agreeing with us in the Labour Party that, on a general basis, it cannot be said to be less serious to be exposed to a so-called "sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep-sleep?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e696	First, I would like to thank you for also giving me the opportunity to answer questions in the Questionnaire. I just want to stress very clearly that a rape is a rape – a sleep rape is also a rape. A rape is an assault, anyway. There's only one person responsible for it, and it's the one who committed the rape. The most important task we politicians have – whether we sit on the Stortinget, or whether we are in government – is to prevent and prevent rape. The NKVTS report this winter was very alarming. When we know that 10 pst. by Norwegian women today have been raped, and only 10 pst. reporter and seek help, we have a big problem ahead of us. It's about attitudes and information to the women who have been raped, that they have to report and seek help, so that we can prevent the rapes that are going on out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e705	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e708	I should have liked to challenge the Minister for Children and Gender Equality for prevention, but my question goes to the Minister of Justice. I really want to follow the points of the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, that there are many who choose not to report a rape. Otherwise, I am pleased with clarifications from both Councils regarding the seriousness of so-called sleep violence. The Minister of Justice has had a commendable commitment to combating rape, getting more reported and getting more cases to end up with a conviction. As the council here was in the past: 10 pst. by women they declare that they have been the subject of a rape – only 11 pst. have chosen to report the matter. Of the cases reported, there is a small proportion that ends with a judgment. Some say rape is one of the safest crimes, because so few of them end up with a sentence. I want to challenge the Minister of Justice: what does the government do to ensure both that more people dare to report a rape, and that in several of the cases there is sufficient evidence to ensure that the case can end with a conviction?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e719	That's a very good question. I will answer as best I can – within the seconds available to me. Firstly, I think this must be done from a social point of view. Sexual assault is very embittered with shame, with taboo. It's hard to talk about. It can affect close relationships in a way that makes it very difficult and complicated. I think it's important that everyone involved in these processes is clear that it's important to report – it's important to be forward looking at getting people to stand up for what they've actually been exposed to. Within my constitutional responsibility, I am very concerned that when the notifications come in, the reporters will be taken seriously. They shall be properly followed up. In the past, I have used examples where police districts have established victim care, following those who report, among other things. rape and sexual assault, all the way to and through the trial, to show that they are not alone. There are a number of measures in this area. It is also coordinated in a separate action plan against violence and sexual abuse, an action plan that is needed to help raise the level of notification and also the number of cases convicted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e728	Jenny Klinge – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e731	This theme is important and difficult. The discussion of so-called Our goal is to bring down the darkness for selections, not increase it. For me, it is important to stress that the criminal relationship lies in acquiring sexual intercourse without the consent of the other party. Aggravating or mitigating circumstance is already taking place today, which the courts consider to be a criminal offence. It seems rather arrogant for the Minister of Justice to show that he only participates in the debates that suit him himself – commenting on what suits him himself – at least in view of the question of church asylum in the past. It was probably more important to comment than the phenomenon of ‘sovereign suits’. Will the Council of State contribute to the debate on electoral articles not becoming a debate on the criminal value of the imminence, but instead a debate on how to detect, clear and punish criminal acts that are done? Then how does he want to do it, purely concretely?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e742	It may well be that it is arrogant to say that I am participating in the debates I myself want to participate in, and not to a very great extent allow me to be influenced by the chair of the Judicial Committee in this respect. But I insist – arrogant or not. The problem is very important and very serious. It is absolutely essential that we take it seriously also in the political change of words. The reason why I think it has been unnecessary for me to participate very actively in this debate is that the starting point is very clear. In the penal code, these two relationships are completely equal. Then, as the representative says, there will be different assessments of what is criminally sharp, etc. What I can do to ensure that the debate on these challenges is neat and proper is to say what I have now done. I have recorded that the debate has actually been quite neat and good. I find it hard to understand that, based on the criminal law we have today, there can be some doubt that a sleep rape is just as bad as any other form of rape.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e751	Iselin Nybø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e754	I want to follow up a bit on the question that Ropstad asked earlier. One of the biggest challenges of rape is that too few reporters, that too few are targeted, and that there are too few convictions in these cases. We must address this, both in view of the women who have been exposed to rape, and in order to avoid rape in the future. In its time, the Sletner Committee presented proposals for a series of concrete actions on how to strengthen the work around this with rape. These measures have been followed up in a variety of ways. The left has, among others: called for the creation of a separate unit in the police, SEPOL, to which the Sletner Committee pointed out, which could build competence on precisely these issues. Once again, I will challenge the Minister of Justice on what concrete actions he will take to get more people to report, to get more visibility, and to get more convictions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e765	I'm going to base what I said in my previous answer, and I'm going to add that I fully agree that a very important step is to strengthen the research environments. Now we're working on the Police Reform, which can provide space for action to strengthen some special investigation environments. If it is right to have a national investigation environment, or if the new police districts are to be strengthened in this area, then we need to come back to it in the event. It is quite obvious that one of the challenges facing multiple cases is that these are complicated issues to investigate. That means you have to have the special competence to investigate and follow a case until judgment. The police obviously still have a way of bringing together such a competence and making the investigation even more thorough. I still believe in the victim care piece. Part of the challenge here is that even after someone has reported, it often happens that you pull the message because the pressure becomes too high – this becomes too difficult to stand in. Having a support device around one to help and show that you're not alone in a terrible life crisis, I think – if not equally important – is almost as important.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e775	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e778	These are very serious issues. I think it is serious that the Minister of Justice is more concerned with polishing against the head of the Justice Committee on arrogance or not than seeing the seriousness of the fact that neither the Minister of Children and Gender Equality nor the Minister of Justice participate in such an important and serious debate. The problem is that in this debate there are arguments such as this. is about shared guilt – a theme for which the Minister of Justice is responsible. There have been themes such as: that it's less dangerous to be raped by someone you might live with and are related to -- who would be happy for you and look after you -- which is perhaps the worst breach of trust in the world, and which makes everything unsafe. So it's a long way to go. Studies show how serious this is, both in terms of attitude and in terms of what is actually happening. I would ask the Minister of Justice to take part in the public change of words about this. Those who get raped need it. It needs those who have attitudes that make them commit such abuses.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e787	I record a call to participate more often in political debates in the media. I'd like to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e792	We're done with the oral question procedure, and we're moving on to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e804	There will be some changes to the configured question list. In this context, the President refers to the electronic questionnaire made available to the representatives. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question No 1, by Mr Kåre Simensen's representative to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, lapses because the questioner is not present. Question 3, from the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, will be answered by the Minister for Industry, who will direct him. The question will be addressed by the representative of Ingunn Gjerstad. Questions 5 and 6 from the representatives of Sveinung Rotevatn and Bård Vegar Solhell, respectively, to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister of State at the Office for the Coordination of EEA Affairs and Relations with the EU, on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e828	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e835	‘During the last few weeks, we have seen that private hospital staff are kept secret because this is considered company secrets. This means that one of the main quality criteria for services is not publicly available information. In its policy platform, the government states that it is absolutely necessary that competition become a horizontal element of public activity. How will the Council of State ensure transparency on the quality of the services exposed to competition?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e842	It is important that there is transparency about the quality of the services to be provided by the public. It concerns both the services provided by government itself and the services provided by private providers on behalf of government by agreement. I have been informed that the County of Oslo and Akershus have confirmed the municipality's decision to refuse access to parts of a tender from a private health care provider. It is not right for me to comment on the specific legal assessment made by the County. The Administrative Act provides rules on professional secrecy. The public – both the state and the municipalities – obligations to preserve confidentiality about so-called business secrets. It also applies to the business secrets of private suppliers that are made known to the public in relation to the outsourcing of services. That individual information in e.g. tender documents are exempted from public transparency, which does not mean that there is generally little transparency about the quality of competitive services. I stress that state supervisory authorities, which are to control the performance of statutory duties and services by municipalities, also have full transparency in the provision of such services to the municipality. This means, for example: that if the manning situation in a hospital is unwarrantedly low, the supervisory authority will be able to impose a requirement to rectify this situation so that the service meets the requirements of the law. Such a requirement will be publicly available information. User surveys carried out by municipalities themselves will also provide important information on the quality of services. For example, the municipality of Oslo publishes its user survey of hospital residents on the Internet. According to the survey, this applies to both municipal and private-run nursing homes. My clear call for public enterprises will be to be open about the quality of services so far as the law does not prevent it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e862	I understand that the Council of State cannot go into the individual matter in which the County of Oslo and Akershus have been involved, but what is at the heart of the matter is that it is the overview of how the individual posts are manned, which the County believes is subject to silence. The patient and user representatives in Oslo and Akershus have responded very strongly to this in the Kommunal Report, and he says: "I wanted to know what kind of staff are at work at any time to take care of my mother when she's in a nursing home. As a relative, you have an absolute interest in knowing." If the Council of State agrees with Knut Fredrik Thorn's opinions, the Council of State will ensure that the law provides the necessary transparency for staffing, both in private and public hospitals, at e.g.: Day and night time?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e872	I agree that we as users, and we as public authorities, should have transparency in the quality of services. Openness is important. At the same time, we also have to respect what is defined as business secrets, and then we have to deal with the law that applies. My impression is that the quality of services has become more transparent after several municipalities have made either user choice or outsourcing, because the services are then also tested against each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e877	I thank you for the answer, but I actually don't think it was particularly obvious. What is at the heart of the matter is that manning in different posts and having nurses on duty at night are considered a business secret. Can the Council of State clearly say whether he wants openness around these things, so that crewing is not considered a business secret in the future? Secondly, when the government argues that competition is important in promoting the quality of welfare services, is it not absolutely necessary to ensure that the administrative law and other legislation actually ensure transparency of quality, so that both relatives, patients and trustees – here from the Nursing Association – have the necessary transparency?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e884	I believe that we need to distinguish between business secrets in a tender document and quality measurement in the service. If the Workers' Party wishes to have access to the tender documents and to what is defined as business secrets, the Workers' Party must take the initiative to amend the Act. So far, I have not seen that the Workers' Party has taken the initiative. What is important to us is to ensure that there is transparency, transparency and control of the services, whether they are carried out by the private sector or by the public sector. That transparency is there, and it's going to be there. My clear call, both for municipalities and for those responsible for services, is as transparent as possible, so that both users, relatives and public authorities can have transparency in the quality of services.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e895	This question, from the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, is answered by the Minister for Industry who directs the matter. The question is addressed by the representative of Ingunn Gjerstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e898	‘There is a lack of learning places. Last year only got 68 pst. of the applicants, the possibility of becoming apprentices. Too few apprenticeships are a serious obstacle to the good recruitment of skilled workers in the future. After discovering that the used companies that were not apprentices, Oslo Municipality will now use its purchasing power to ensure that more skilled workers are trained. When will the government ensure that government acquisitions of a certain size always require the supplier to have apprentices?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e905	I agree with the representative that apprentices are important to ensure the good recruitment of skilled workers in the future. Norwegian businesses depend on, and it is important for both contracting authorities and suppliers to the public that we have good skilled workers to do the job. It is therefore good that § 3-11 of the regulation on public acquisitions allows a contracting authority to make provision for Norwegian suppliers to be associated with an officially approved apprenticeship scheme. This provision is a central instrument that contracting authorities may use to ensure that carrying out activities involve more than one apprentice. It helps to give more students an apprenticeship and to provide Norwegian working life with sufficient and appropriate skills in the long term. I am therefore very pleased that the City Council has decided that, in connection with contracts for maintenance and rehabilitation projects, the City Council has the power to assess requirements for connection to officially approved apprenticeship schemes for Norwegian suppliers. It is also good that the City Council has followed up the decision of the City Council to impose even more stringent requirements on contracts where relevant, and regardless of whether the work is carried out by the main contractor or subcontractor. All contracting authorities have such access to requirements for apprenticeship schemes. It follows directly from the regulation. I assume that the contracting authorities make such an assessment in relation to major public acquisitions and use this access where appropriate. Whether it is appropriate to require an approved apprenticeship scheme in connection with a public acquisition depends on both what the acquisition is and whether there is a need for apprenticeship places in that industry. In line with this decision in Oslo City Council, I do not think it makes sense to impose a general requirement on apprentice schemes. Government contracting entities should make a thorough and concrete assessment of the relevance of each acquisition to require that the supplier is linked to an apprenticeship scheme. In this assessment contracting authorities must consider not only what is beneficial in the short term but also take into account that the requirements for apprentices today provide good trade union workers tomorrow, thereby contributing to ensuring good supplies to the public in the future. I therefore urge all contracting authorities to require that the supplier be associated with an apprenticeship scheme where applicable.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e918	I am pleased that the Minister of Industry is concerned about the topic. I would like to remind you that, through the social contract with the social partners, the state has committed itself to stepping up the practice of this law. And as the council points out, you can make demands. My question is whether the Council of State can elaborate on this: Have such demands been made in some cases? Is it such that it has begun to do so in specific projects for which the State is contracting entity, for example. within construction, or is it simply the case that suppliers are required to be approved apprentices? Can we expect and generally always meet apprentices in public construction projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e925	I can't explain concrete projects where this is done, but the state has a lot of purchasing power, and the state makes concrete assessments relating to individual contracts. There is reason to do so, and I believe that this should be assessed on a case-by-case basis. And then we're going to see if we have any other means. We are now facing a huge revision of the procurement rules. We will have a legislative committee on 10 June, and we will send to the hearing a proposal for a change, which is primarily about simplifying and improving public procurement rules. It also makes it possible for several suppliers to deliver to the public, and it also allows for more apprentices in private business.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e932	We are also concerned with apprentices in public business. So it's a goal of this social contract to increase the number of new apprenticeships by 20 pst. from 2011 to 2015. So from today's level, we're going to have to go up by 3,000 to do it. Can the Minister of Industry say something about what measures she will stimulate to achieve this goal by 2015?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e937	My responsibility is the public procurement regulation, and what I can confirm is that we are now going to have a thorough review of that regulation, and we are going to assess which instruments are appropriate. But it is true that all acquisitions today have access to demand that the companies that supply have approved apprenticeships.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e946	I allow myself to ask the Minister at the Office of the Prime Minister for the Coordination of EEA Affairs and Relations with the EU the following questions: ‘According to the ESA scoreboard, the implementation of new regulatory acts has increased from 0,9 pst. in July 2013 to 1.8 pst. as from February 2014. The number of legal acts adopted in the EU but not yet incorporated into the EEA Agreement, around 600, is the highest in length, according to EEAS data. In the Stortinget on 26 March, the Council of State said that we have ‘taken hold of unencumbered legal acts on the Norwegian side and brought them down considerably’. What does the Council of State base this on, and what will he do to get the implementation back down under 1 pst. ?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e955	The Union market is the second most important market for Norwegian industry, and the government’s objective is to ensure Norwegian companies optimal access to this market. It is then important to limit delays in the inclusion and implementation of new EEA legislation. With regard to the incorporation of new EU legislation into the EEA Agreement, it is correct that the number of acts adopted in the EU but not yet incorporated into the Agreement is nearly 600. The inclusion of new legal acts requires that matters are also settled by our EFTA partners as well as by the EU side, and therefore it is only through joint efforts and efforts that the aftermath can be significantly reduced. In this context, it is worth noting that there are more and more issues waiting for treatment on the EU side and that the ball is not with us. However, there has been a significant reduction in the number of cases to a first clarification on the Norwegian side since the new government joined last autumn. Since November, the number of such cases has almost halved from around 200 to over 100. Including the issues where the EFTA side negotiates with the EU, the figure is slightly higher, but it nevertheless gives an indication that the emphasis the government has on bringing down and more effective legal clearance on the Norwegian side has had a positive effect. Then we are now committed to implementing joint measures under the EFTA and national measures in addition to the national measures in each EFTA country, which we expect to have a positive impact on the lag in the longer term. There is reason to believe that the results of this will start to show up later in 2014. As regards the national implementation of new EEA legislation in Norwegian law, the ESA scoreboard shows that, as of 11 November 2013, Norway had so-called 1.8 pst implementation deficit. For 24 directives, Norway was delayed in its national implementation. It is a double since the previous scoreboard and is a result of delays in the May–November 2013 period. Similar to the suspension of the inclusion of new legislation in the EEA Agreement, delays in national implementation are unfortunate for the conditions of competition for Norwegian industry. Our objective is therefore a significant reduction in the implementation deficit during 2014. The government is working on a Europe strategy, the effectiveness of the integration and implementation of EEA legislation as a priority task. We are also developing new administrative procedures on EEA and Schengen matters. I expect this to contribute to a significant and lasting reduction in delays for the benefit of Norwegian business and other stakeholders.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e970	I now understand the answer from the Council of State that the sentence I quoted from his statement on my question, that we have ‘taken hold of the unencumbered legal acts on the Norwegian side and got it down considerably’, is a kind of third measurement method, which he uses to produce more forceful action. I understand the need to be effective when you have gone so high on the track, but I think it creates more confusion than anything else about operating with the official scoreboard, which it is called on the EU side, i.e. implementation after it has been included in the EEA Agreement, to operate with those who are queued to be admitted. If you want to split it up in different countries, I think the confusion is going to be total. I think we should concentrate on the forces to address the real challenges, which are, firstly, to agree with our EFTA partners and, secondly, to implement them when we have incorporated them into the EEA Agreement, into Norwegian law.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e975	I agree that it would be confusing if we started making scoreboards about what we are doing on the Norwegian side, but in a debate about what we are actually doing on the Norwegian side, I found reason to point out that we have taken hold of this delay and done what we can on the Norwegian side – in the government and in the Norwegian administration. Of course, it is also important because it is a signal to our EFTA partners that this is something we take seriously. It gives us a better argument when we point out to both EFTA partners and the EU that we are taking this seriously. Then, more specifically, we are working on joint actions on the EFTA side to launch the formal EEA process earlier in order to bring political, legal and professional aspects forward at an earlier stage, and we are working on the introduction of a more simplified procedure for technical legislation – something that we are in dialogue with EFTA partners on so that this overall will have a positive effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e982	Governments are quite right that this is complex. It's not just for us, it's also for our two EFTA partners Liechtenstein and Iceland. There we have Liechtenstein on the one hand, which is very fast, which does not have any of the constraints we have on the challenges of financial agencies, etc., which we discussed in the European Committee earlier today, and on the other hand we have Iceland, which has a more cumbersome and time-consuming procedure than Norway has. So we're a little bit in the middle. It is very good that the government is trying to work with our EFTA partners as well. What is now delaying, or creating a queue, before we can include it in the EEA Agreement, is among other things: to have an institutional agreement on the financial bureaux and other agencies. Can the State Council say anything about where that work is?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e989	The representative Hansen is quite right that the work on financial supervision is an important matter and the most important one in terms of the need to find solutions, also because a lot of legal acts remain in place as long as the main issue of connection to the financial supervision apparatus is not clarified. We are working on the Norwegian side with Liechtenstein and Iceland to make proposals. We are in dialogue with the European Union side. We have dialogue with the Member States. There is no issue like the Minister of Finance and I deal more frequently with our European counterparts, because this is a very important issue for Norwegian finance industry and also for Nordic financial markets, since we are so closely integrated. That is why one of our initiatives is to work more closely with our Nordic colleagues in order to get ahead with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1000	This question, from the representative of Sveinung Rotevatn to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister of State at the Office of the Prime Minister for the Coordination of EEA Affairs and Relations with the EU, on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1003	‘The Oslo Conference on the Humanitarian Consequences of Nuclear Weapons in 2013 and the follow-up conference recently held in Nayarit, Mexico, have illustrated an increasing global focus on nuclear weapons. What is the Foreign Minister's attitude to any international ban on nuclear weapons?'
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1010	The goal of a world free of nuclear weapons is widely recognised in both the UN and NATO. At the same time, we must recognize that such a world is well ahead of us. The work under the Non-Proliferation Agreement, the NPT, has long been characterised by a lack of momentum. This also applied to some extent to the 2010 Conference of Supervisors, but the final document of the Conference clearly established the vision of a nuclear-free world. The document and the 64 follow-up points cover all parts of the NPT: disarmament, non-proliferation and peaceful use of nuclear technology. The document also refers to the UN Five-Point Plan 2008 Secretary-General, to the humanitarian consequences of nuclear weapons and underlines the obligation of all countries to respect humanitarian law and international law. The final document formed the starting point for the conference in Oslo in March 2013 and the follow-up conference in Nayarit in February this year. These two conferences have been important because they have helped to obtain facts about nuclear weapons and the consequences of their use. This has created new commitment, widespread ownership and renewed interest in discussing nuclear weapons. During the preparatory meeting of the next year’s Conference of Supervisors, which is ongoing at this moment, there has been a broad welcome on the importance of focusing on the humanitarian consequences of a nuclear detonation. During the meeting, the US Secretary of State for Defence said that the US's efforts to reduce and eliminate nuclear weapons in the long term have been motivated by the impact of nuclear weapons on humanity. Like the previous government, this government shares the vision of a nuclear-free world. It is important to stress that the purpose of the humanitarian initiative has been to achieve results on the road to this vision. Nuclear weapons are a central part of NATO's deterrent strategy, and the 2010 strategic concept states that NATO will remain a nuclear alliance as long as such weapons exist. This was also something former Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg referred to when he was appointed the new Secretary-General of the Alliance. He also showed that he had been involved in adopting the strategic concept of the Lisbon Summit in 2010. Here, this government is completely in line with the previous one. NATO has incorporated President Obama's vision of a nuclear-free world into its strategic concept, but at the same time assumes that NATO must have nuclear weapons, as long as there are nuclear weapons in the world. The government is holding on to this vision. Neither we nor the previous government have called for any ban. It is also part of this picture that since the Cold War, NATO has significantly reduced the number of nuclear weapons and also reduced the overall importance of nuclear weapons in the alliance's strategy. The aim of the humanitarian initiative has been to foster progress within the NPT towards the 2015 Conference of Supervisors. Towards the conference, we shall work actively to further anchor this humanitarian perspective in the NTP cooperation and contribute to a new action plan that provides a clear framework for progress in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1029	I'd like to follow this with the fact that Norway's hold is fixed. By organising the first conference on the humanitarian consequences of nuclear weapons in Oslo last year, Norway has definitely contributed to creating a new and long-term momentum in the debate. However, it may appear that Norway is now failing to give a vision of what the initiative will lead to. On the basis of the signs, it seems that the Norwegian delegation – at the latest in the last week – in connection with the NTP Preparatory Committee in New York shortly summed up the following: that Norway does not want a ban on nuclear weapons at this time, that we believe that it is the responsibility of other states to continue the initiative, and that we do not wish Austria to be the organizer of a new conference if there is a prohibition process. Is it true that this is Norway's official hold being presented in international forums?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1038	Norway's position is that we support the long-term vision of a nuclear-free world. It's solid. We believe that the humanitarian initiative has been useful in creating momentum in the NTP negotiations, and that is a line we will continue to follow. The preparatory meeting of the 2015 Supervisory Conference is now under way in New York, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs will provide further information on the outcome of the preparatory meeting when he makes his intervention in the inter-pelling debate on these issues on 5 June. At that time, you can also better take stock of your work. It is important that we stick to our NATO commitment, that we play well with important allies in order to put nuclear disarmament on the agenda also in NATO, but that we at the same time hold on to the fact that NATO has nuclear weapons and must have nuclear weapons as long as they exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1045	I believe that both I and several representatives are looking forward to the interpellation debate that is coming, and look forward to more thorough answers then. Now, there's a time when there's a lot of people who think that working to get an international convention on a ban on nuclear weapons in a short time will help us move closer to the vision that the Council of State is talking about, and that we're going to continue working on actually getting a nuclear-free value. So I want to stop asking one last question, and I would like the Council of State to answer yes that Norway wants a ban on nuclear weapons. What the council says is that Norway shares a vision of a value free of nuclear weapons. Can the Council explain the difference between the two?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1054	When we share a vision of a nuclear-free world and support that vision's place also in NATO, it's a sufficient signal of where we stand. Discussing a prohibition initiative at this point in time is not natural. We're in a situation where we're in the middle of routine processes. We should work within the processes against the vision we have. We are seeing worrying nuclear programmes in North Korea and Iran. Although there are negotiations going in the right direction in the Iran context, we should not allow nuclear weapons to be part of NATO's concept as long as they exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1063	This question, from the representative of Mr Bård Vegar Solhjell to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister of State at the Office for the Coordination of EEA Affairs and Relations with the EU, on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1066	I am delighted to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following questions: ‘The information support to the information work of voluntary organisations on global development issues is important in order to ensure a wide and critical debate on development policy in Norway. Now the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has signaled to Norad that they do not want funds to be released for new long-term contracts based on the information service. The RORG-cooperation has sent a letter to the foreign minister and asked if this is because the government is planning to cut this benefit. Can the Minister of Foreign Affairs clarify it?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1075	The Ministry of Foreign Affairs provides support to non-governmental organisations for information work on development and assistance. The aid was granted over the aid budget and amounted to 91 million. kr in 2013. The previous government launched an independent review of the information support. It was implemented in 2013 and showed among others: the spread of funds among a large number of organisations, but they still reach a wider population to a small extent. The review also shows that a large proportion of the activities take place within the established NGOs and to a large extent when those already involved in development issues. This has not been the purpose of the scheme. Many of the organisations receiving information support also receive significant funds through other schemes administered by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We want to look at that in more detail. Fewer agreements will provide less bureaucracy, better overall overview and simplified management. Information work to create knowledge, debate and commitment on aid development may alternatively be carried out under the grant agreement of organisations already receiving grants for aid work. Therefore, we are now considering changes in today's information support, including: based on the review carried out in 2013. In the context of the 2015 budget, it is therefore natural to assess the amount of information support and whether an alternative use of funds could have a greater impact on aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1086	Of course, the evaluation that has been carried out will be followed up, and you will see how the funds can be used in the best possible way. I think most people can only be wise. Then I have to add that with my experience of righting the tone in response, I think the answer is very much in the direction of a warning that one will reduce, remove or make significant cuts in the order – as I heard from the Council of State now. It seems to me to be problematic, because I see it as an important contribution to the public conversation on these issues, and there are many examples that there are important issues involved in everything from palm oil ban to debt audit. But I want to ask, how does one make sure that there is a case about this to the Storing, or that there can be a public debate, whether a major change in these arrangements?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1095	The Foreign Minister’s intention to assess changes in aid is already well known, including: by looking up the current aid, and I suppose I have already encouraged an initial debate. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in close cooperation with Norad, who manages this support, will prepare any changes, and they will in turn be presented to the Budget for 2015. Then we're open to a discussion. Fortunately, in Norway we have a spoken civil society that often meets the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and of course we will listen to their views.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1102	Then I understand that we want to see changes, and I think that means that we want to see cuts in this arrangement in the budget. Then Stortinget will have the opportunity to deal with it then, as I understand it. I actually have two questions at the end. One thing is, will the government in advance ensure the involvement of those organisations that are supported – but also other parts of the civil society in Norway working on development issues – in a discussion about what are reasonable changes and how to organise support? And the second question is, how will a sure precaution be? Now, in a letter to Norad, there should be no clearing of funds for new long-term contracts, as I understand it, beyond 2014. Can it be e.g. Would it be appropriate to say that a person is getting custody in any case out of 2015, so that one can do the work in a reasonable way this year without fear of being cut when the year is over?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1111	By being open to review of changes, including: the Minister for Foreign Affairs has already opened a discussion on future arrangements and will listen to views that may come from the organisations. So this is an application-based scheme that depends on annual appropriations from the Stortinget. There is no question of a relationship between an employer and an employee or a responsibility towards the organisations. With the extension of existing agreements, we will provide sufficient time for those who need to reorganise their activities. Norad estimates that there are 75–90 people working on information through this allocation. It is our duty to find the most effective use of these means, while at the same time giving organisations a horizon for change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1122	‘The Council of State has said in Stortinget that she will investigate the appropriateness of a climate law. In the last month, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has given politicians a marching earth to cut greenhouse gas emissions. The government itself has said that the longer we wait to cut, the harder it will be to avoid more dangerous climate change. Will the Council of State set up a public body with an ambitious mandate to prepare a proposal for a Norwegian Climate Act, or will it only investigate whether this will be investigated?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1129	Let me first say that I share the representative's view on the seriousness of what the latest reports of the Intergovernmental Panel show. The interim report from Working Group 3 that came to Easter shows that keeping the heating below 2 degrees will require a lot of us. We need to change behaviour across all sectors of society. Legislation is one of the most powerful means of shaping society and of promoting desired behaviour and preventing undesirable behaviour. The proposal for a climate law is based on the climate agreement. What we are assessing is what we have committed ourselves to by means of the climate agreement, namely that we should assess the appropriateness of a climate law. What we are talking about in this regard is a law inspired by the United Kingdom Climate Change Act, which targets the state powers, not the citizens. In addition to the operational legislation we already have, the law must oblige government and enlargement to keep total national emissions below defined limits and be binding on decisions under sectoral legislation. It's an untraditional way to legislate in our system. I would also like to remind you that we have a robust and comprehensive operational environmental legislation in Norway, without significant deficiencies. In the discussion about climate law, I sometimes think that we might forget that starting point. The British model has received a lot of attention and contains interesting elements that we do not have, which can add value to Norwegian climate policy. But what we do needs to be adapted to national circumstances, as they have done in Denmark and Finland. It raises many important and difficult issues about the relationship between law, policy and instruments in climate policy. I notice that there is commitment to the matter, and that is very positive. We need an open and inclusive discussion, so that the different aspects of a climate law can be highlighted. So far we've investigated this internally in the Department of Climate and Environment, but I intend that we set up an open, public recording process, hopefully right after the summer. I think we can learn a little bit from how the EU consults on such matters by asking some open questions to find out what such a law can give us that we do not have today. After we have had this round, I will come back to Stortinget with an assessment of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1144	I note that the Council of State has a fascinating good time in a situation where everything suggests that we do not have a good time. This is the first month in the world where all stations measure over 400 parts per million CO2 equivalents in the atmosphere. In practice, this means that the 2-degree target, to which everyone refers, is blown. Now we're talking about more, and we're in a hurry. So we know that what the Council of State calls robust and comprehensive legislation in the environmental and climate fields, so far, has not cut a gram of CO2 emissions from Norwegian sources. That's why we're asking: isn't it time to slow down the pace to find new tools? And, as I've asked the Council of State about earlier, can we at least get a time for when this investigation of an investigation might be available?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1157	As I said, we intend to send this out right after the summer, and see how much time we spend on a public hearing about this. I fully agree with the representative Hansson that it is urgent, but it is certainly more urgent to have concrete policies to reduce emissions. If such a climate law can give us progress in that work, it might make sense. But I think the most important thing now is to focus on reducing emissions, and then we're investigating in parallel whether it's appropriate with a climate law.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1164	Concrete policies to cut emissions have I asked here in the Chamber about a short time ago, and the Council of State had no concrete answers, despite the fact that the Council of State and everyone else know that there are concrete opportunities to implement concrete policies. The advantage of a climate law is that it establishes a binding system for the implementation of national and sectoral emission reductions. It is a system that we lack today, with clear results, which is not emissions cuts. So I ask again: why can't the Council of State, as you do in other projects, set a time for when she will come back to the Stortinge with a recommendation on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1173	It was decided in the climate agreement that one should assess the appropriateness of a climate law. The previous government did not follow up on this at all. We're going to follow it up now by figuring out if this is appropriate. We have an open recording round and we're asking good, open questions about this. If it turns out that this is something that's missing in our system, it might make sense. But I think we should agree that the most important thing is to get ahead of work on reducing emissions. I have repeated several times earlier today, in the spontaneous question hour, that the government is working specifically on it in many departments and comes back to that work. We do that in parallel as we investigate whether it is appropriate with a climate law.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1184	‘The government has announced that one will facilitate nettapotek in Norway. The group of pharmacists, representing independent pharmacists, is concerned that this will go beyond the health policy objectives of using pharmacies to provide more and better guidance to patients, and that the establishment of a network of pharmacy will weaken the basis of the existence of traditional pharmacies and undermine pharmacies in the districts. Will the Council of State continue the implementation of net drug abuse without assessing the impact on the district pharmacy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1191	The majority of the Health and Care Committee, i.e. the members of the Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Right Party, have asked the Government to facilitate the establishment of nettapotek in Norway. In practice, a provision in today’s regulation has hindered the establishment of net drug abuse in Norway. The provision states that pharmacists cannot send prescription medicines outside the geographical scope of the pharmacy. A prerequisite for establishing net topotecan in Norway is to ensure good guidance for patients in pharmaceutical services. I have therefore entrusted the Swedish Medicines Agency with the task of assessing whether there is a need for changes to the legislation to ensure good patient information, if Section 41 of the Regulation is repealed. The Agency shall also assess the need for specific requirements for consignments in order to ensure the safe distribution of medicinal products. The Agency shall provide an investigation on these issues by 1 October 2014. The setting-up of network potatoes will increase the availability of medicinal products for the population, in particular for the population in less central strata. On the other hand, there is a risk that nettapothek could reduce the marketing in traditional pharmacies. The drug coverage in Norway has been significantly strengthened following the liberalisation of the pharmacies market, which followed the 2001 Pharmacy Act. At that time there were 397 pharmacies in Norway. Today we're in almost 800 pharmacies, and many of the new jobs have just happened in District Norway. I am therefore not concerned that nettapothek will offer poor pharmaceutical services to patients in the districts. On the basis of the Agency’s investigation, the Ministry will assess the consequences of opening up the free circulation of prescription medicinal products from pharmacies. The hearing memo will be sent to the ordinary hearing. I believe that such a regulatory change will allow pharmacies to meet patients' expectations about modern and forward-looking pharmaceutical services, while at the same time ensuring that the people of the whole country have access to important medicinal products.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1206	I would like to thank you for your answer. As I understand the answer, the Medical Products Agency should assess how the medicinal product can be safely sent so that the patient is provided with the information and the security that one should expect – and that one does not assess the consequences for the established pharmacies. The Minister for Health himself says that he will assume that this will reduce turnover. I disagree that it will not primarily affect small pharmacies in the districts. There are several questions that appear then, for example:: How should people in the district secure access to emergency medicine if the pharmacy is no longer there? How should important patient groups, e.g. Astmap Asians and other chroniclers, where one is required to meet the patient, is information secure? There are also other issues that may be asked about the disappearance of the pharmacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1215	I want to return to the fact that we now have twice as many pharmacies in Norway as we had in 2001, as a result of liberalisation. Opening up to retapothek, we'll do on the basis of what patients need. Patients across the country will then have better access to medicines that are also prescribed. What is important to us is to ensure that the shipment does not impair the quality of the medicinal products and that the patient is provided with good information. That's exactly what we've commissioned the Swedish Medical Products Agency to do in a good way. 8 pst. the population still lives in pharmacies-free municipalities, for which it will be a good solution. The Swedish Medicines Agency also has an operating aid scheme for pharmacies. It is possible to provide — and provide — support for pharmacies where there is a weaker financial base for pharmacies. It is a system that can also be used in the future if challenges arise.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1224	I would first like to make it clear that although there are twice as many pharmacies now as a few years ago, they have all, most of them in the big cities. It will be dangerous for them in the districts, if there is now a reversal of that bet. So it could be more than 8 pst. who then lives in a municipality without a pharmacy. The question I asked, which the Council of State did not respond to, is, how are the people in the districts going to get emergency medical treatment in case of increased online commerce? And how the Council of State intends to keep this up with the fact that pharmacies are to be given more tasks, for example: Drug calls, if the core turnover of the prescribed medicinal product is transferred to major pharmacies in the major cities?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1231	Although most of the establishments have been built in densely populated areas, very many of the new sites have also been built in District Norway. We have better pharmaceutical coverage now than we have ever had. I am therefore not concerned that nettapothek will provide patients in the districts with a worse pharmaceutical offer. I believe, on the contrary, that they will have an additional offer that they lack today, namely the possibility of having medicines handled online, just as one is doing other things online to a greater and greater extent. Establishing a good, guaranteed Norwegian offer, where one also ensures the patient good information and a safe shipment of the drug, will also mitigate the risk of people purchasing illegal medicines online. It's a way in which the government wants to meet developments in this area, where we first of all take on the basis of what individual human, patient, needs are.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1244	‘I refer to the fact that the EU has recently concluded negotiations on a new enforcement directive. There is a clear need to discuss a common platform to improve the enforcement of broadcasting legislation, with a focus on action against social dumping. This is what State Council Robert Eriksson said positively in the press release on 10 March of this year. How should the government follow up and implement the enforcement directive in Norwegian working life, and how should the government continue to work against social dumping with full strength?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1251	Let me first thank you for the question. I believe that the EU has agreed on a common platform to improve the enforcement of the broadcasting directive is positive. This Directive allows us to further develop our control systems relating to workers posted in connection with the provision of services from EEA countries. The Directive is therefore an important and central tool to prevent unprofessional relationships, links and employment in Norway. I am asking for an understanding at this stage that we are early in the process, and I cannot say anything about how the final implementation will happen today. There is something we will involve the social partners and others to be involved in such a process, in and have dialogue about. Let me stress that Norwegian working life is essentially characterised by cleanliness and proper conditions, but unfortunately we see a larger element of unprofessionalism in some industries. Let me point out some of the industries that have major challenges. It's the cleaning industry, it's the construction industry, it's the transport industry, and not least it's the outdoor industry. This is why the government believes it is important to have good industry programmes and good follow-up aimed at those sectors where we see the problems. The government and I are concerned that we should cheer up the serious and take the unprofessional. Therefore, it makes sense for us to sit down with the social partners – it will happen early in June – to discuss developments that we see in the field of organised labour crime. It is a development that both I and the social partners are taking most seriously. Then we have also had some projects and started some experiments that have proved to work very well, among other things. in the municipality of Bergen, where we are now looking at how we can get the supervision and public authorities to coordinate to a much greater extent. There the Labour Inspectorate, the tax office and the chemist go together, and the way you work is a good way to do it in Bergen. Unregulated working conditions are well identified, and tools are being put in place early in life. I think it is important to provide targeted tools as early as possible, instead of creating as many forms as possible, which are a criminal offence for those who are serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1266	I thank you for your answer. The compromise on this directive in the EU contains two specific open questions. Firstly, there is now an opening for other control measures against social dumping than those mentioned in the Directive. But as I interpret it, there will be strict requirements to go beyond the listed measures. In Norway we have pursued a dynamic and offensive policy against social dumping where new problems have been encountered with new measures, and I look forward to the comments of the Council of State on whether he thinks we can continue to find new measures unhindered by this new directive in Norway. Then it is uncertain whether the membership of so-called post office companies will be covered by the directive – such companies that only have a mailbox in a country where they say they are established, and then have all the business in Norway. If the employees of these companies fall outside the scope of the Directive, does the Council of State think it is close to seeing them as part of the Norwegian labour market and that Norwegian pay and working conditions should thus be fully applicable to those added?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1277	With regard to the first part of the question, which authority we have to take national control measures, I feel that what is clearly in the directive is that the directive does not prevent us from having national control measures to ensure compliance with the rules on broadcasting. It also applies to measures other than those listed in the Directive. The assumption is that the measures are necessary and proportionate. Among other things, it points to joint and several liability. Solidarity is already enshrined in Norwegian legislation and practised in Norway. The fact that the directive now opens up to having stricter rules on joint and several liability in other sectors is in many ways – as I see it – according to what is practice in Norwegian law as of today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1282	Thanks for the answer. Governments have promised to continue their efforts towards social dumping with full strength. The Stoltenberg government is promoting three action plans against social dumping, and there is a lot of evidence that there will be a need for both a fourth, a fifth and a sixth, because those who engage in labour market crime are constantly finding new ways of exploiting people to make money. If we put one hole in the dam, a new one will quickly be created. I would like to say that it is not so good for this work if the Right Party and the Advance Party continue the line they had when they were in opposition, as they alternated between countering our important actions and taking such a wait-and-see attitude. Can the Council of State guarantee that the government will not remove the measures already in place and act as evidence, and rather use the forces to find new methods and instruments to combat and stop social dumping?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1291	Let me first say that yes, there are three action plans for social dumping. I don't want to spend my time – to say it that way – just sitting and writing action plans. I would rather be forward-looking and meet with concrete actions where the problems arise, instead of sitting backwards and writing action plans and seeing that the problems are there. That is why I have invited the social partners to a meeting early in June with other public agencies, so that we can sit down and discuss how we can target instruments to take those unprofessional ones. With regard to the measures put in place to combat social dumping, I am concerned that we should evaluate to find out clearly which of these measures are working, and which are actually concrete in stopping unprofessional and indecent work in Norway, and what is not working, because then we should replace what is not working, and get new measures that are more targeted and take care of what is working. I'm willing to facilitate that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1303	I allow myself to ask the Minister of Justice and Security the following questions: ‘In police work on the drug-trafficking communities in Greenland, Fatherland, and so on. in Oslo, the police have often pointed out the abuse of the institution of asylum in connection with the sale of drugs. In order to provide the police with better tools to deal with this, Stortinget made some changes to the Foreign Affairs Act in 2011. They went b. (a) the fact that applicants for asylum who commit crime may, in addition to the usual penalty, be subject to notification obligations by a particular recipient of asylum. If this is broken, they can be imprisoned. In how many cases has this anti-law system been used for now?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1312	When the amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act came into force with effect from 1 March 2012, the police were given the opportunity to impose a notification obligation or a specific place of residence on foreigners who are asylum seekers or who are illegally staying. Paragraph 105(c) of the First paragraph requires the foreigner to be ‘punished for a criminal offence or to be committed on a fresh basis in the exercise of a criminal offence, which may result in a higher sentence than a prison for six months’. Violation of the obligation to notify or to place of residence provides police grounds for imprisonment. There is no requirement for a place of residence to be a specific reception for asylum. The Directorate of Police reported for the second quarter of 2013 that there were no reporting procedures that distinguished the use of the first paragraph of Section 105(c) of the Foreign Affairs Act, i.e. that the representative asks about, and the letters (a) or (b), which are intended to impose reporting obligations due to lack of cooperation on identity or that there are concrete points of view that the foreigner will not implement decisions. I can therefore not give an accurate figure on how many have been subject to reporting obligations or to a certain place of residence on the basis of criminal offences, but the police had committed reporting obligations in at least 58 cases so far in 2013. Nor is it possible to distinguish the number of persons who were imprisoned because of a breach of mandatory reporting or specific place of residence, i.e. under Section 106, first paragraph, point (c), from the number who were imprisoned because of the other prison provisions of Section 106 of the Foreign Affairs Act. In order to gain more knowledge of the police's use of reporting obligations and certainly a place of residence, I asked the Police Directorate for a detailed explanation of how the provision is being practised in the police districts. The feedback from several police districts was that the procedures for the use of the provision were demanding to be administered, and the requested districts also learned that the requirements were not complied with in the cases they were tried out. In view of this, the police are therefore largely choosing to use other coercive measures under the Foreign Affairs Act. For example, there is often a risk of avoidance against this target group, so that instead of imposing a reporting obligation, the police choose to prison in cases where there is a rapid prospect of deportation. It is important that the police use the room for opportunity provided by the Foreign Affairs Act for this group. Foreigners who exploit the institution of asylum to commit crime in Norway shall be transported as soon as possible after a decision has been taken. In the light of the feedback from the police districts on the use of the funds, I have taken the initiative to review the reporting or specific place of residence procedures in order to see whether they can be simplified and to ensure that they are more closely complied with. I would also like to refer here to the cooperation agreement between the Advance Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left on the foreign field and on developing return centres for people with final rejection. The application of the provisions will be seen in the context of my ambition to bring together more people with rejections in the same asylum recipient.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1327	Thank you very much for your answer, which was factual and also had good perspectives. I understand that it is difficult to distinguish between the letters in the reporting, at least as the focus has been. The purpose of Stortinget was that the police would get a wide range of tools. Better success in these areas is needed in removing the druglonger settings experienced by the population, almost as large as they were when they started. The police have always shown that they are coming back and forth, and that it is difficult to get them jailed because there is a lack of detention places. Some will also apply to less serious matters, so that there are difficulties in getting custody prisons before the Court. They are then given shorter penalties and are quickly out on the street again. I would like to ask if the Council of State does not see that more is needed than just custody and transportation as a tool, because in some cases this will be what is realistic to use, and it should be used to a greater extent.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1336	I fully agree with the questioner's starting point, and I think it is important that the police have a wide range of options that they can use. That is also why, in my main response, I stated that I have taken the initiative to see how we can simplify the use of these provisions. It's an important perspective to give the police the tools they have. They have now received several tools from Stortinget, and I expect them to take advantage of them as well. At the same time, the aim is to ensure that criminal foreigners leave Norway and, where there is a reasonable advance in the expulsion case, imprisonment through the internationalisation of Trandum and then emigration is a better option than the requirement for a specific place of residence. But it is important that the police use the tools they have at their disposal, and that is also why I have asked for this review.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1341	I totally agree with what's the best option to succeed, but the police have been complaining to us politicians for a long time that they're doing too little with the best option, i.e. getting them imprisoned and out of the country. It was during the operation against open drug settings from 2012 to 2013 that 10,000 were expelled from the Oslo Centre for Minority. It is striking to me that, in those cases, there is no greater use of expulsion, that in less serious circumstances where custody is not realistic, the method of reporting is not used when receiving elsewhere in the country, so that we have toiled behind the mirror that they come back to Oslo, Bergen or where they are now taken, then there will be imprisonment. I'm a little disappointed with the Oslo police's attitudes that emerged when I heard them say this morning, because it seemed like they were against using this method. They weren't for the method, and it doesn't help with reporting if you don't want to use it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1346	I think the questioner has an obvious and excellent point, and I expect the police to use the tools they have at their disposal, when they think it is effective. It is also important to distinguish between expulsion and mandatory residence or reporting. There are different ways of dealing with order problems, and the fact that the Storting has adopted a relatively high penalty framework to break the reporting obligation is also an important signal of the importance of this measure. I assume that when they have this review, the police go through their own procedures and use the most effective tools. It is obvious that the lack of detention places can be a challenge for custody prisons, among others. this group. I'm not going to polemize the cause of the lack of prison places, but it's an obvious challenge, and that means that the police have to use the means at their disposal – that's why this review of how the police districts manage the provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1359	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Justice and Security: ‘There are today many police officers who are appointed in short-term institutions. Singles for only 2 years. Lack of care when it comes to the central lease in a police district can have unfortunate consequences. It's basically important that a top leader at this level has some independence. In this context, short institutions may be unlucky. Does the Council of State think that this practice can continue?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1368	Let me first thank you for a good question from the representative Klinge. The mandate of the Police Analysis Committee was to prepare a new police study to form the basis for a long-term plan for the further development of the police action. The organisation of the establishment was one of the themes to be addressed, including the police district structure, with which, of course, the representative Klinge is well-known. The Ministry therefore decided in January 2013, i.e. under the previous government, that vacant policing positions should be filled by constitution until 31 December 2014 – in order to avoid a situation where, in the event of a future reduction in the number of police districts, there will be more police officers on a yearly basis than there are police districts. The Police Analysis Committee gave its position on 19 June 2013 through NOU 2013: 9 One police force – equipped to meet the challenges of the future. A comprehensive structural reform is proposed, as the representative is familiar with. The Ministry is now working on the police analysis and its follow-up, and the leaders of the police, and not least the policing team, are central to the work that this conversion will entail. It's demanding, this work. At the same time as the work on change is to be carried out, police must prevent and combat crime and provide security for the population. I'm sure the police officers are doing a good job. I have also learned that the police organisations – and this is important – understand that it is appropriate for institutions in the department’s management positions during the period we are now in. The Ministry of Justice and Defence will assess an extension of the temporary management positions by 2015. We are therefore dependent on the progress of the new police reform, including in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1377	I thank the Council of State for your answer. The question involves a fundamental discussion of how lucky it is that police district leaders are in short-term commitment. Managing the authority they are given by virtue of the position means that it is important that they are largely independent. It applies both when individual matters are to be resolved and when the budget is involved. One can then question whether a police officer who has a very short engagement will be able to be sufficiently independent in the relationship with his superior when, of course, he hopes that the engagement will be renewed in a short time. This also has its relevance in the process of police reform and content there. Does the Minister of Justice agree that the fear of being left with superstitious police officers, as he himself calls, in the event of any reorganisation should not overshadow these fundamentally important points of view?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1386	I agree that practicalities should not overshadow fundamental challenges, and I share the considerations the representative has about potential challenges with short-term high-level positions in the police as well. At the same time, I believe that principles should not be in the way of the practical, good, important and necessary changes that are now to be made by the police. I agree with what the previous government did when they started to have short yearly targets for police officers precisely because one is not going to sit with a large group of police officers who may not have similar positions to go to after the police reform has been implemented. I largely share the fundamental considerations of the representative. At the same time, I am dependent on having a practical approach, just as the previous government was dependent on having a practical approach to these challenges. And it is important for us to have progress in police reform, so that this is not a continuing challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1393	There is an important clarification from the government council of the past, that there must be a good progress, so that this will not be an extended problem. Goal setting is something that can mean a lot, and it has both advantages and disadvantages. One shouldn't go too many years back in time until one had police officers who didn't have any time limit for the addition relationship other than the age limit. Evaluating a system, I'm absolutely sure there are shared opinions about how this works. The level of leadership is very important for the provision of good police services, which was also clarified in the Gjørv Commission’s report. In connection with the alert police reform, will the Minister of Justice also consider what is the most appropriate accession relationship for top leaders?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1402	I think the representative Klinge is right that there are many discussions around goals and benefits and disadvantages. One of the disadvantages is that we are still sitting with overwhelming police officers from the previous police reform. It is not a particularly fortunate situation for people who have long-term positions to lose the position they have initially been given, but still have employment rights. There, year-on-year targeting helps solve a challenge. It can create another challenge: the relationship with the independence that we expect our police officers to have, and I think it's natural that we evaluate it. If it is not considered natural as part of the police reform, I believe it is an assessment that one should have on an ongoing basis in order to assess the benefits and disadvantages of target positions. My starting point is that I think year targets today work quite satisfactorily, because the years are satisfactory long, and one has the opportunity to get it extended. I haven't seen so many examples of it destroying the independence of the police officers.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1411	‘Recently Synactiv revealed a serious security hole in a Sercomm module used in very common routers such as Cisco, Linksys, Netgear, etc. like you get at Elkoppe. I.D. theft and espionage are some of the dangers. The hole cannot be repaired «outside», but must be done by people themselves. Most of those who have these routes are often not aware of the hole or/and do not have technical insight to detect or seal it. Most people probably think they're safe behind the firewall. What is the government doing to ensure consumers against this security hole?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1418	I would like to thank the representative for a good and important question, and I will answer as best I can, I would have almost said, but it will be at a somewhat general level, not concretely into the security hole that the representative points to, simply because the issue is also much wider. The Ministry of Justice and Defence has responsibility for the coordination of ICT security on the civil side. National Safety Authority is the national ICT Safety Professional Environment and reports to the Ministry of Justice on civil matters. The NSM and the Norwegian Information Security Centre, also called NorSIS, contribute together to the dissemination of relevant information for different target groups, in order to contribute to the protection of businesses and citizens from ICT vulnerabilities and threats. NSM and NorSIS cooperate closely with each other and against the Ministry of Justice and Defence. As the representative correctly points out, Sercomm vulnerability was revealed earlier this year. In this respect, the NSM informed that early warning was sent from the suppliers concerned with guidelines on how to close the vulnerability. This was a vulnerability affecting four international suppliers of network equipment, and it turned out that the total number of components, or routers on the Internet that were affected, was approx. Six thousand. This in itself is a vulnerability with very limited scope. But the question addressed by the representative raises a number of important general issues. The Sercomm vulnerability mentioned is only one of several thousand vulnerabilities that are exposed every year and that require the end-user and owners of the hardware or software concerned to carry out updates themselves. Today, the National Event Management Centre, NorCERT, of the National Safety Authority — with its 24/7 staff — is monitoring, recording and reporting on this type of incident on an ongoing basis. Every time a vulnerability becomes known, an alert is immediately sent out to important public and private actors. The Ministry of Justice is in close dialogue with the NSM on how to further improve the management of these types of events. closer public-private cooperation. The main objective is to ensure, through close public-private cooperation, the rapid identification of the extent of vulnerabilities in Norwegian infrastructure, so that alerts reach the actors concerned as soon as possible with concrete advice on how to close vulnerability. NSM has been given a coordinating role in this work. In addition, NorSIS makes a significant effort both to inform users and to give suppliers the impression that they need to work even better with safety before launching products and services. An important activity to reach the highest possible population is the implementation of the National Safety Month, which has been implemented annually since 2011, in October. NorSIS has been responsible for implementing and coordinating this safety month. In this month, key environments gather each year and participate in a joint effort to deliver messages on how to better ensure a digital everyday life. The Ministry of Justice and Defence has, through the letter of commitment to NorSIS, assigned national security months as a priority task.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1435	I thank you for your answer. I am also pleased that the Minister sees that, although it is a very specific question, this is actually an entrance to a very comprehensive and general discussion about the security of the state in an area that has very often been overlooked by politicians, presumably for the same reason, that one does not have the technical insight – one believes this is an IT department issue. Security holes like this, we can't just find them in private people. We can find it in companies, which can be the starting point for industrial espionage, we can find it in the Nav office, in the police, in hospitals, etc. We do not have an overview of these security holes per day, nor do we have any concrete measures to follow up so that these holes get tight, or that people are told that they have to close them, or buy new routes to avoid this. In total, this represents, I believe, one of the new great threats to our society. My question to follow-up is quite simply: does the Minister really want to go into this and get the speed up so that we can get a deal on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1444	I am really very happy with that question, because it indicates that the previous government did not get up! But I can assure the representative that we are working very hard on this, not least because the Ministry of Justice and Defence has the coordinating responsibility for ICT security. We are now laying down a strategy for monitoring this through the different departments. It is each department that has sectoral responsibilities – according to the sectoral responsibility principle – for ICT security in its sector, but it is our job to look at the challenges – and they are many – that go across the different sectors. I very much share the reality description of the representative. I agree that this is a huge challenge, and I think it has been an underestimated challenge, how many have thought that this is the IT department's problem. But it's not, it's a big social problem. The challenge of getting an overview of vulnerabilities is that they are often not so obvious that they are easily understood. There are vulnerabilities that often appear along the way, or in some way that in some way you haven't structured up – it can be through attacks or other things. Therefore, it is important that we have an overall approach to this whole issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1451	I think a should be a little audacious in meeting a threat that's relatively new, and not just away to live history and saying that one didn't get things until one even got on the track. The Minister also shows that he has not been so concerned about and aware of these issues either. That being said, this is an area in which I believe there is an urgent need for political leadership. It's not that hard to detect, but already known errors and security holes can be detected. The minister himself was involved in public-private cooperation. One possibility is that one makes agreements with Telenor, NextGenTel, etc. to check what's on their system, if that type of security hole is there. Then the information can be sent back to NSM, which can give notice to companies or individuals, etc. The possibility is there, the question is whether one has a minister who is willing to get into it and address the issue. I really want an even more concrete response from the minister than what he has brought so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1458	Then the answer could have been yes, if it had been concrete enough. I'm very concerned about this problem. I did not say that the previous government did nothing. It took an important step, namely to coordinate ICT security responsibilities in a department. It is an important measure. The problem I addressed is that the materialisation of how this should be done has a potential. I am now exploiting that potential to find out how best to secure our entire community structure against that type of ICT attack. I fully agree – this is something that evolves extremely quickly, it is almost difficult to hang on to the turns of most of us ordinary people. But from my point of view, it is absolutely essential that we have systems in place to deal with the threats that appear continuously. There we have a relatively good system in place today, but it is definitely an improvement potential, which we are now working to make better use of in the Justice and Defence Department.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1467	I allow myself to ask the Minister of Justice and Security the following questions: ‘The transfer of police tasks in the EEA, cases of residence and citizenship to the UDI has been thoroughly investigated in the project of the first-line reform. The changes were prepared to implement the previous government. The transfer of tasks and necessary changes would contribute to faster and more cost-effective management of foreign affairs. Will the State Council implement the changes, what is the status of this work now, and when can the change be implemented?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1476	I would like to thank the representative Sivertsen for his question. It is right that the transfer of police duties in dealing with cases of residence and citizenship and tasks related to the EEA registration system was carried out by the previous government. However, the previous government did not give priority to proposing the necessary appropriations for the implementation of the first-line reform. Such a measure would require the establishment of a number of new regional and support offices under the UDI and therefore require a substantial investment in practice. The most recent calculation, made by the previous government by an external consultant, estimates that the start-up costs provided certain assumptions for, inter alia: the number of district offices will be between 95 and 160 million. kr, and then a relatively small efficiency gain per year. Therefore, there is not necessarily a basis for claiming that the measure would contribute to a more cost-effective management of the foreign affairs. At the same time, it can be mentioned that the police have also streamlined their treatment of these cases, and the treatment period is falling. I ask questions about whether it is sensible to implement a reform that costs a lot in the implementation phase, which involves a significant extension of the UDI organisation in places where the police are already located and which may not respond financially over time. At the same time, I would like to stress that it is natural to see this in connection with the job we are now doing with the police reform. The government has not yet taken a position on the first-line reform, but will assess this in the context of police reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1487	Thanks for the answer. I also hear that the Council of State has worked on the issue and indicates that this will trigger some investments. It is not known that when new measures are introduced, one will have some initial costs, or ‘puckle costs’, which some describe as such, but which can also lead to both more cost-effective solutions and better quality solutions. I have noticed that at the end of September 2013, the UDI indicated that there was a strong support for the proposals that had been put forward, and what had been finalised in the reform. I am also pleased that the treatment period in the police has been reduced to these matters, but the Council of State did not respond very specifically when you might decide whether you want to go further with this project, or if you want to scrape it. It is a relatively comprehensive investigation work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1496	In fact, I mean that I responded, because I said we're doing it at the same time as the police reform. I don't give a date when the police reform is presented to the Stortinget, but I think it's natural to see the two things in context when both the investigation related to the first-line reform is complete and we will soon be done working on the police reform. I have a very practical approach to this question. I am concerned that we will get the most process out of every penny. I am also concerned that the funds invested, whether in the police or in the UDI, provide a better and more efficient procedure. Then there is a question that I think we need to ask ourselves when dealing with this, whether these 95-160 million can be used more efficiently and better with an even better efficiency end result than what the first-line reform will result in. As I mentioned, the government is not finished dealing with this issue, but I suggest that the government deal with this in the context of the police reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1503	I share the opinion of the Council of State that it is important to get the most back for each penny. I also share the stated objectives. We have foreshadowed both in government and outside government that the processing time associated with foreign affairs needs to be reduced. It's done a good job. I have also realized that the Council of State has been clear that it has been a priority. Then my question becomes, if it is that you're not sure that this is the right way to go, but is still concerned about getting the processing time down and getting more for each krona: what kind of grip is the Council of State seeing that you have to do as an alternative to this, if you're going to get to the high ambitions we have?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1510	Now there has already been an improvement in the effectiveness of the police. Now that we are working on police reform, the proposals of the Police Analysis Committee are a significant reduction in the number of police districts, which may even increase the possibility of more effective processing in this area. It is therefore important to see these two things a little bit in context, because it would be a little weird if we were to use large investment crowns to build up a new capacity in the foreign administration if one really would get more for them if one built it into the police reform. Therefore, the task structure that will follow the police in the future is crucial for how you think about the first-line project as well. That's why I'm a little unclear in the answer to the question of options, because it's important to do it in the context of the police reform we're now facing, which I think would give the police a better opportunity to further streamline these tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1519	‘The conversion of Air Force is the main implementation challenge in the Long-term Plan [[LTP]] What will the Council of State do to ensure the strength production and operational capability of the Air Force, in particular related to workshops and financial management in the Air Force?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1526	The representative of Huitfeldt is right in saying that the conversion of the Air Force that has just begun is one of the most demanding things we are going to be doing in the Defence for years to come. It's a big puzzle game where it's pretty critical that the pieces fall into the right place at the right time. One of the very first things I did when I joined as Minister of Defence was to get a review of the status of the measures that the long-term plan prescribes. It was to make sure that we did the right things in the right order and pace. This meant that we have made two significant adjustments to the arrangement that lay, and that is an adjustment in the timelines. One is that we are postponing the transfer of the Air Force Inspector General from Rygge to Retan by 2020. It should have been a two-step move, in 2014 and 2016, but we keep the air defence management together and to the bulk of the change in Air Force is expected to be done. The second is that we maintain the QRA with two F-16 planes in Bodø as long as the F-16 has to have this role. So that means that we're not creating an intermediate QRA for F-16 on evens, but we're going straight to F-35 there. Both of these measures are important, both in order to prevent loss of skills — it does not solve all the challenges, but at least it contributes — and on the other hand in order to ensure better management of the migration process. Because it's quite right, as the representative says, that it's going to be demanding, and then it's important to have good governance and to have the air defence management together one place until the majority is completed. In addition, we are now taking seriously the construction of Ørland. There is an investment proposition in Stortinget, in the Committee, such as: deals with the construction of the squadron building in Ørland. It is also very important that much of the activity we now have is directed towards getting the staff to Ørland and building up Ørland. For as important as ensuring proper resolution of air defence sites no longer to be present, it is to ensure a reasonable and sound construction, so that we are sure that everything is in place when the new fighter aircraft arrive.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1541	I thank you for the answer, where the Council of State reports on what analyses and adjustments she has made. But my question is about the operational capability and what steps the Council of State has taken to ensure the operational capability. The Newspaper reads about the concerns about the capacity of our Orion surveillance aircraft, and the NRK has also presented notices of concern related to the operational capability of our F-16. The question is, how will this affect the operational capability? Here, the Council of State itself has been concerned with transparency. As she said in her New Year's Eve: there must be «room of more transparency within the framework of the law». I challenge the Council of State to respond to whether this will strengthen operational capability.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1548	I'm just doing the grips to strengthen the operational capability, and because the government is responsible for providing an operational capability that is good, throughout the transition process. It has been very important for me to make changes and adjustments that will contribute to it. Let me give an example of F-16, which Huitfeldt's representative is concerned about. The number of flight hours on F-16 has not been high enough. The Defence Manager and the new Air Force Inspector-General want to return in 2014 to the estimate of 9000 hours of flight. There has been a steady decline: from 2011 with more than 10,800 flying hours, via a decline in 2012 with 8,900 flying hours, and in 2013 with 7,800 flying hours. So it wasn't during our reign, it was during Huitfeldt's reign. We've been concerned that we now have to get back up to the level where F-16 is going to be, to ensure the operational capability.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1555	It's important to have more flying hours, but it costs money. When the current government council was in Stortinget, she said that the long-term plan was underfunded – it had to be half a billion more. Then there was no substantial increase in the budget. Then there's the New Year's speech, where the Council of State says that you have to take'someone move towards gradually larger and lasting appropriations', while last week she gave a speech in London talking about maintaining the level of Norwegian defence expenditure. The Minister of Defence has said that she wants to ‘close the gap between rhetoric and reality’, but until now she seems to have closed her own gap first in view of her own ambitions. So my question is, what level does the Minister of Defense want to put on, and what kind of ambitions does she have? So far, it has been shown that she reduces the level of ambition in view of how much this will cost – because flight hours cost money.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1564	It is always festive to hear recent complaints from members of the government at their own budgetary level. But I want to say that in that way, we added extra money into our supplementary budget to the government's budget for the Anniken Huitfeldt, where we strengthened both the Home Guard, the Coast Guard, and we funded the Marine Hunter Command's standing standby. There were important actions that were not funded, or underfunded, in the government budget of the Anniken Huitfeldt. The second is that we are about to present a revised budget. We're going to provide a budget for the autumn. Of course, I'm not going to tell you anything about how it goes in those budgets. But our goal, our ambition, is to have – and strengthen – the operational capability. It's also going to involve tough repriorities. It is in all budgets – as the representative Huitfeldt, who has been the Council of State itself, knows – that it requires tough priorities, the distortion of funds from less priority to more priority purposes. That's what this government will do.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1573	Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-07.ana.ud283e1586	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
