ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e36	The representatives Sylvi Graham and Svein Roald Hansen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The representative, Mr Mandt, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e47	On behalf of the representatives of Knut Storberget, Anna Ljunggren, Hege Haukeland Liadal, Arild Grande, Helge Pedersen and myself, it is a joyous proposal to present an action plan for a non-toxic everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e52	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 to 2 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e83	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 20 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 40 minutes, Right 35 minutes, Advance Party 20 minutes, Christian People's Party, Center Party, Left and Socialist Left Party 10 minutes each and the Green Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to five lines with replies after contributions from the main speakers of the parties and members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e94	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. I would also like to thank the Committee Secretary for his late and early work on drawing up the comments and proposals we have been working on in a hectic phase. This is the first municipal proposition to be treated by this government. In addition to being the usual municipality proposition, it also contains a message part about the municipal reform. We are also discussing today in parallel with the Left its proposal for a representative. The Committee has put a good deal of work into the community's proposal, and political differences in the matter are evident. A compromise has been reached, and it is gratifying that there are also large and wide pluralities behind many of the points in the municipal sector. That's exactly what's best about local policy – that one can stand together if there's a few of them and that one can work together. So I'm very pleased that the best thing from local politics is getting involved in the municipal committee through the work on the municipal proposition. There is broad agreement that the municipal sector is the foundation of our welfare society. He is a strong arena for local democracy. Local authorities represent the proximity, access and potential of citizens. The municipal sector is large. It stands for 18 pst. of the income in gross domestic product, and 15,5 pst. hours worked in our country are carried out in the municipal sector. In addition, the municipal sector is important as a service producer for the inhabitants. Many of the important needs of our citizens are covered by our municipalities. Municipalities are also an important job. Like I said, 15.5 pst. The hours worked there, but the whole 18 pst. of those who work, work in a municipality for the inhabitants of our country. The fact that it is an important workplace underscores us. I am pleased that competence for those working in the community sector is one of the areas where the Committee has worked together to find good wording. The entire committee, other than the Centre Party, has among others: a joint note stating that a competence reform in municipalities should be implemented. In this municipal proposition, of course, the focus is on the municipal reform. It is historic today when Stortinget – for the first time in 50 years – says that one should start work on a new municipal reform 50 years after the previous big one in our country. A broad majority in Stortinget – all except the Center Party and SV – have formulations that we are positive that all municipalities in the autumn of 2014 are invited to participate in processes with a view to assessing and clarifying whether it is appropriate to join neighbouring municipalities. It's an important signal for all local politicians to notice. We are now calling for local leadership and for local politicians to stand up as local leaders to lead the municipalities through this reform. It is not to make the government and the Stortinget happy, but because the inhabitants of Norwegian municipalities are quick to see that the municipalities assess their own situation, whether the services can be even better and whether the municipalities can become even more robust to meet the new tasks we want to give to the municipalities. This is why local politicians have to show local leadership, because it can be better serviced by a pooling the professional environment instead of professionals, and one can get better planning now that communication has been easier than 50 years ago. I would particularly encourage local politicians to note their ten criteria and that Norwegian municipalities use them to assess whether the municipality will in future be robust enough to meet the needs of its citizens. That's why the signal that the Progress Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left Party and the Labour Party today is giving that the process is about to start, important to notice, and I'm glad that such a broad majority agrees with the start-up of the work. And then it's right to say that even though many people have a lot of things in the committee, we're not sure about everything, and that's obviously going to clear up today's debate. But I think what the Committee has presented is a good starting point for further work. Then it's important to stress, as a number say in the comments, that the main rule of this process is local leadership and volunteering. An exception is mentioned by the same parties. It is that, in very specific situations, individual municipalities should not be able to stop changes that are predestinable according to regional considerations. That's the exception that's mentioned, and I think that's also a good starting point and an exception to the general rule. So the picture drawn is in the media, if coercion, threats and pressure from government are not correct. There is also a joint committee that believes that the government should consider providing reform assistance to municipalities with less than 10,000 inhabitants, so that 10,000 are not perceived as a minimum size for municipalities. Now the community has an important role to play in the work, and I also hope that KS regionally and in the counties will play an important role in implementing this process. As I said in the introduction, we also deal in parallel with a proposal from the Left on a new, popular regional level to replace the county municipalities. It's natural to treat these at the same time as they go into each other. There is no secret here that the government party has a primary point of view that Norway can cope with two levels of government, and that the county municipality, which has the least legitimacy in the population, can be reduced. Unfortunately, this view does not have a plurality on the Stortinget, and on that basis we have reached a compromise with the Left and Christian People's Party, as has been done in both cases. In order to remove the uncertainty about this, we also promote, on behalf of the four parties, a proposal for the debate today that states that the government must also look at tasks at this level or at fewer municipalities, but in a way that does not delay the process of the primary municipalities. We also need to use and compile previous work breakdowns. And it's also good to note that the whole committee, minus the centre party, says in particular that the capital area needs to be looked at separately in order to have a holistic spatial and transport planning. It also states that any other metropolitan area could receive such an assessment. I have noticed the report from the NHO and the academics, which they have ordered. There are many exciting suggestions to strengthen the urban regions of Norway that are worth taking along. Then I go back to the municipal economy and the municipal proposition. Last year, the Labour Party said its main figure, Ingarill Olsen: ‘It’s going to be a difference for Norwegian municipalities if we get a dark blue regime consisting of the Right and Advance Party.’ We got it, and it's exciting what difference the municipalities will make with a control with those parts. The growth proposed, I don't think the municipalities will notice the difference, because it's at the same level as the average of the eight red-green years, so I'm having trouble seeing the big difference in the financial system now and before. When subtracting from demography and retirement, growth in 2015 is actually greater than in 2014 for Norwegian municipalities. Municipal economy is important for delivering good services to the inhabitants. We in the Progress Party are occupied by good schools, kindergartens, sick homes, etc. To be happy with all of this, we have to have a good community economy at the bottom. So it's never enough – we'll never see a spokesman who says he's got enough money now, and he's happy. Local politicians will always want more. There is an inherent force in local politicians that they want to give more to their inhabitants, and that they always have new ideas and things that they should have solved. There will always be a difference between what is needed in the municipalities, and what corruption and government can fulfill. A major difference between the past and the present is that we should not contribute to creating undue expectations for local politicians from here, saying that local authorities have never received more money, so now they must be able to solve all their challenges. We should be honest and say that being a municipal politician and a local politician means that one has to prioritize, one has to make choices, and one has to focus on effective operation. So we shouldn't expect everything to be solved, making the job harder for those who are local politicians. Because we have a robust structure for the municipal sector for the next year and ambitions to have a good municipal economy, we have no problem supporting point two in the attitude, which says that through the annual budgets, municipalities will have a growth in income, which enabled municipalities to build up and strengthen the quality of schools and other welfare services, and also fully cover demographic and pension costs. We do that in 2015, and we have ambitions to do so – of course, based on the total economy of our country. I would also like to add that when we say that one should cover the pension costs, it is not that we should cover the crowns, but we should, through deflation and the same practices that have been, ensure that the municipalities are able to cover their own pension costs. For 2015, there is particularly one area that slips us in the Progress Party: that the growth municipalities get a huge increase. Until today, the growing municipalities have received a little over 60 million. kr on sharing, which is very small. Compare with the small municipalities, which have almost 1 billion. kr, the growth municipality is very small today. Now it's going to add up to nearly 400 million. kr. The Committee recommends that the government look forward to further increases in the government budget, so that even more municipalities can join the growth community – considering that the growing municipalities feel that they have a high investment need and need to invest in school and kindergarten at first, and that they need more funding to cover the interest and tax obligations they receive. The company tax is another area that has been important to us. We note that the government suggests that they will continue to work with models to return the company tax to the municipalities, and we look forward to it being a theme in 2016. In 2017, the government announced that they would like to provide up-to-date cost keys and a new income system for municipalities. We also look forward to a frequent change in the keys of the income system, so that there is not a long time between each change, which creates major challenges that we see today when we have the keys of the county councils on the table, where one has failed to make that change frequent, and then the effect becomes great. In this discussion, the Christian People's Party and the Left have also had their say. We are pleased that we have cooperated well with them. They will certainly do their best for their victories, such as the ear tagging of clay balls and the reimbursement scheme for single minor asylum seekers, which are some examples of their success. Finally, a little bit about the county councils and the income system of the county councils: for the first time in very many years, we have now completed the update of the cost keys that have been warned for a very long time, and as it has been very well known that should happen. My impression is that the county councils have been very well aware that this was going to happen, and they have also been very familiar with how it would come out for the individual county council. I don't think there's any big surprises out there and it goes when it comes to how it was presented. It is also good to note that there is a joint committee which says: ‘The need for a new system is therefore in place to mitigate real and objective cost differences between county municipalities.’ So there's a joint committee that says it has to be put in place. Even Gabrielsen has said that when you make changes that go to zero, you get a 90 pst. and then you get a 10 pst. by the winners. I recognize myself in that description, considering changes in the county municipality. We've got 90 pst. Shut up, and then those who have come out well have given us 10 pst. message - even if everything has gone to zero. Then you can ask yourself the question: Is it right to do that when you get 90 pst? Shut up? That's it. It is right to correct the injustice that has happened. One good example is that Sogn and Fjordane have received 431 million. NOK to drive a boat and a ferry, and they have spent NOK 234 million. NOK, while Rogaland has received SEK 167 million. NOK, but has spent 323 million. kr on the same task. We could continue with the same system, but it wouldn't be fair to the county councils that got too little before, that we would continue to pass them on too little. Therefore, it is right and important to do so in order to correct real cost differences that exist between municipalities. In the case of Rogaland, they enable us now to implement and build up their public transport services, which are important. It is therefore true that this has not been situated in the department, where it has been lying for too long, and one has not dared to present the proposal before. The challenges do not get over themselves by pushing them. Since the redistributions because this has been lying for too long, are large, we have gathered to say that the changes will take over five years to get a softer landing for the changes. It's a compromise so that those who have been given too little before, which is now going to get more, gradually increase their income, and for those who get reduced their share of the cake, it also happens gradually. In addition, the government proposes to create a loss compensation scheme. It strengthens the committee by 30 million. kr. We're going to be very careful to get into the keys from the political point of view. It has been a tradition to stay away from entering the keys, but we note that the ferry and boat are the criterion the government continues to work towards the state budget. Finally, we are pleased that the four non-socialist parties, through this treatment, have found formulations that a holiday solution should also be found on the county road network. It hasn't had one before, so there's a new policy being introduced, by model from the state roads. Here the government is given the task of finding a model for how to introduce a holiday solution and how to connect with the income system in your own way. I'm taking up our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e168	The representative Helge André Njåstad has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e173	I do not think I share the opinion of the representative of Njåstad that the municipal reform is the most important thing in this document. This year, Norwegian municipalities are experiencing a tax intake failure compared to what they have budgeted for. In the proposition, the government estimates the failure to be 1.2 billion. kr. This week, on the other hand, the Statistical Central Bureau presented figures showing that the number could be much larger. According to the Municipal Report, the failure in the worst case could be over 4 billion. kr in relation to what the municipalities have actually budgeted for. This means that if the loss of income is not compensated, it has to be cut in schools, kindergartens or care for the elderly. The Progress Party will not compensate the municipalities. When the municipalities experienced a failure in 2004, the Chairman of the Progress Party and the current Minister of Finance, Siv Jensen, were the head of the Finance Committee. She was crystal clear that the state had to compensate the municipalities for the failure of the revenues. The party making progress even entered into an agreement with the government on such compensation. This is in stark contrast to what the chairman of the committee claims in the comments he has written. We're waiting for the Progress Party to say something in opposition and do something completely different in government. When did it become a fundamental principle that the point was to finance the sector partly with tax revenue and framework grants? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e184	I did not say that the municipal reform is the most important thing, I said it was the one that got the most mention in this municipal proposition. Of course, the most important thing is that we enable municipalities to provide good services to the inhabitants. However, local government reform is important when it comes to local authorities being important in the future. I'm not in agreement with the representative's statement that the SSB has suggested it. The SSB has provided figures for taxes up to May, and KS has said that if the trend continues, numbers can become such and such. These are uncertain numbers, and it's important to note that it's uncertain. In the case of compensation for tax revenue, there has been a fundamental principle — I would say — among the vast majority of the parties that one should retain the VAT revenue received by the municipalities, and when tax revenue goes down, one should not be compensated for. In 2004, the Progress Party used its leverage power to add more money to the municipalities, with the reason that the taxes had expired as one of the arguments.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e193	The Progress Party has become a voice party to use referendum as an important part of the development of local democracy. The government now states that municipalities should be stimulated to use a resident quiz as an alternative to referendum on the issue of community reunification. Is it the case that the Progress Party has changed its view of the importance of referendum, and what is the reason for this? Is it that the Progress Party now believes that referendum is a bad solution for the citizens to be heard? Or is it because the Progress Party is afraid that they will get an answer that does not fit into their plans for coercion of municipalities? Is it so that referendum is no longer a theme for the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e200	The setting is a little bit more than 200 pages, so I understand that you don't have to read everything. However, several of the comments contain the word ‘people’s reconciliation’ — including where the Progress Party is involved — where we have said that popular reconciliation can be a way of listening to the inhabitants and that it is up to local municipalities to choose how to involve their inhabitants in the process that is to happen. We are open for municipalities to choose different models. The most important thing is that they take citizens on board, and that citizens and businesses will be involved in and discuss what is needed to deliver good services in the future through this community reform. But we haven't changed our view of popular reconciliation as an important element of our democracy and we would like to welcome a very large number of referendums on this issue too, but it's up to the municipalities to decide how to take their citizens on board in this process.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e207	I can assure you that I have also read what is written about referendum. I have also read what it says about the resident quiz, and that there is going to be money to develop a form for such a resident quiz, so it is clear that there is a great drift here. Another question relates to the proposal presented today, where the tasks of the county council are now to be examined in parallel with the municipal reform, but at the same time gives the impression that it is not a matter for the committee of experts that it is not to be included in the mandate of the committee of experts. The chairperson of the Committee of Experts has clearly expressed the weakness of the mandate that the county council is not part of the mandate. Will it now be time for the Committee of Experts to carry out tasks for the county council as part of its mandate?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e214	If you have read the whole setting, one at least found out that there is no room for the built-injarquiz. What it says is that one can have a community study, and the government's idea is that one can have more questions than just yes- and no- questions, to get shades, and that the government will put such a system into use for the municipalities, if they want to put it into use. So the question about the expert selection. It is important to be aware that it is not the Stortinge that gives a mandate to the government’s expert selection – one must be clear in the division of responsibilities between magnificence and government. Nor does the selection of experts, as said by the minority in the Committee, have a mandate to propose which tasks should be moved. It should evaluate the tasks proposed and presented by the government to the Stortinget, and say – as they have done in their first interim report – what is needed to be a robust municipality, with the new tasks. When the government receives the option, they may have to look at how they will compile previous intermediates in a proper way, and I have confidence that the government will do it by itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e221	I think the word 'robust' is going to be referred to as the word of the year. In my understanding of the word, "robust" means to be strong and tolerable. It doesn't always have anything to do with being big, but in the case of municipalities, it has to do with economics. Now we know that there is a lack of money in the municipalities to do what they are required to do – for example. It's missing 840 million. kr for children to have children's gardening space, as required by law, and as it has been in recent years. County councils say they're missing 240 million. kr to keep up the collective offer, and there is tax failure. Does the Progress Party still feel that it is more important to keep up its fiscal policy than to ensure that we have money to get kindergartens, that there is public transport, and that the municipalities do not have to cut the old age care until next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e229	We could talk a lot about the room for action in the local economy. I don't share the concern that the action space is so much reduced. One takes with it only the tax failure element, but does not regard demography and wage-making as two other elements that draw in the opposite direction, so that if one looks quite closely at it, the action space is roughly unchanged from what was the starting point for 2014. When it comes to 2015, we provide a robust scheme for the municipal sector – I don’t know if I’m allowed to use the word ‘robust’, but at least we think it’s robust and better than what the red-greens provided in their last year. When we subtract from demography and pensions, which are the costs of municipalities, the space for action is larger. Tax policy is important, and we have to deal with both. If municipalities are to receive income in the future, we need to stimulate growth in our country, and then it is important to have a tax relief policy to create values in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e238	The chairperson of the Committee asked in his statement what the difference would be. Yeah, there's a lot of ways to think about the numbers. One way is to look at the growth of the total income, where this government adds up to a total growth of 1,1 pst., but the average for our government period was 2,6 pst. There's a difference that I think the municipalities notice. Some of the intention of the municipal proposal is to provide predictability and clarify to the municipalities the framework to which they will budget for the next year. Then I want to go back to the tax failure and the tax intake. Because we are adding growth to the revised national budget, tax revenue up to now will actually have a major impact on growth next year. We know what's going to be, it's mapped. In addition, the Municipal Report shows that if these developments continue, there will be a significantly greater tax failure than it has been at present. My question will be: Will the committee chairman – even after we have compensated for demographic and price growth – go in to compensate the municipalities for tax deficits when the state budget is aged? Can you count on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e247	No, tax failure is not compensated, but of course the government will evaluate the taxpayer in the government budget to obtain the desired tax rate between the taxpayer and the frame. Of course, with a new estimate in the State budget, one will make its assessments of how the local economy should be robust, as this proposition announces. But it's important to remember that municipalities get to keep VAT revenue when things go well. I suggest that they don't use them up, but that the municipalities are the nukes and make sure that you stay away until it goes down. Then it's important for the municipalities that they live on tax income, too, and not just on transfers. If we compensate for all the tax failures and subtracted all the VAT growth, the municipalities are actually governed by the framework finance, which we do not want. We want municipalities to focus most on attracting business and tax revenue, not on getting government transfers. This is an important point for us, and therefore the municipalities must be tax-funded. And then it goes up and down sometimes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e254	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e257	It is in the community that people live their lives, and therefore, for the Workers' Party, one of our highest priority tasks is to ensure that communities have the resources to ensure the security and opportunities of all citizens — and the real opportunity to influence their own future. For the past 50 years, the Labour Party has been at the forefront of a number of reforms that have given municipalities and county municipalities new tasks and greater responsibility: the right to secondary education, the 6-year reform and the introduction of SFO, HVPU or the responsibilities reform we call it today, full child care coverage, the right to children's playground, the cooperation reform, the extension of child protection services and elderly care and the county municipalities have also been responsible for most of the national road network and half of Innovation Norway in recent years. In most of these crossroads, the right side has either been against or very counterproductive to the changes. The municipalities are the foundation of the Norwegian welfare community and also have a high level of responsibility for social development and a number of important tasks of authority — from fire preparedness to construction handling. Then we get daily examples of things that can get better. Older people have to wait for sick homes, young people who don’t finish school and people who have to wait too long for answers from the municipality. Nevertheless, there is every reason to recognise the work done by municipalities and the results obtained. Since 2005, there have been tens of thousands of new annual works in municipalities and a greater and better provision to the population as a result. According to the 2013 survey, 90 pst. of the population satisfied with their municipality as a place to live and live. In the case of services, the population was most satisfied with kindergartens and primary schools. The multiplicity of services provided by municipalities is designed at the intersection of state requirements and local priorities. State requirements, such as: The user-controlled personal assistant and the right to kindergarten shall ensure that you receive good and equivalent services throughout the country. At the same time, the provision of services by municipalities is based on local needs and policy choices. In my home municipality, Tana, the local government chose to impose taxes on property in a cross-political and unanimous manner, in order not to lay down a nursery school, while in Bergen the city council chose to remove the property tax instead of cleaning up adulterous school buildings. We'll probably always have a discussion if we have the right balance between government governance and local discretion. In the Workers' Party, we have an open mind in that way. We believe that in key areas of school and welfare, common standards are important throughout the country. At the same time, it is very important to ensure that local democracy has an economic space and the ability to take decisions that are important to the community. That's why we increased the revenues of the municipalities and reduced the ringing while we were in the red-green government. That is why we are going against state-wide price financing for the care of the elderly and removing municipal housing, as the government has announced in the government platform. A good community economy is a crucial framework condition for local democracy and well-being. In the coming years, our municipalities will meet significant challenges related to strong population growth, especially in and around the largest cities. Unfortunately, some municipalities also have to deal with relocation, and all the municipalities in this country have to provide a good school to prepare our children to participate in solving the climate problem and meeting the competition from China and other new competitors in the global arena. The municipalities have a formidable task of providing new, more and better services to the population where we have both older and older people. This confronts us with a fundamental political choice: how are we going to use the resources of our society to meet these developments without creating new social and geographical differences? For the Workers' Party, the answer is obvious, not least with a background in the perspective message we received in this Chamber just over a year ago: we have to spend money on school, health and care for the elderly rather than tax cuts. I also fully agree with what Knut Arild Hareide said when he presented proposals for a new party program for the Christian People's Party in 2008. He said, "We want to keep the current tax level." This is because we have significantly reduced taxes in recent years, but now there are other tasks that need to be given priority. That was wisely said, and it was well received. The right on his side was in the campaign last year a lot of fuss about promises on behalf of the municipalities. The underlying message was that you don't have to choose. Tax havens should not lead to welfare protection; they should actually be both lower taxes and more well-being. But the message from the government in the municipal bill and the revised national budget is that one is now running again with exactly the same policy as when Erna Solberg was the municipal minister for a few years back. This year, the government and the majority of the population carry out tax cuts of between 8 billion. kr and 9 brd. kr, while the announced growth in free income for municipalities to next year is only half that much. The mid-year status also shows that the government is pushing the bill for important knowledge efforts to the municipalities. We've had a lot of rounds in this hall, it doesn't need any more presentation. But it has also been found that the government has bombed the ten-timer on its calculation of grants to new apprenticeships. Giving $50,000 to every new company that's signing a learning contract for the first time costs about 100 million. kr in the year if the number is where it has been done in previous years. The government has granted 10 million. kr. That means the final bill of $90 million. kr was sent to the county councils. I also notice that when, for the first time in ten years, municipalities receive lower tax revenues than they have budgeted for, in the worst case, several billion kroner, the government still prioritises other things, such as: spending money on additional duty-free allowances and a lower charge on suspension engines rather than compensating municipalities. It affects school and well-being. There's also reason to comment that the government has invited to a meeting to settle the 5,000 refugees who are in reception, but where the government itself is scolding. The Labour Party therefore strongly disagrees with the government's financial arrangements for the municipalities and county municipalities. They're underfunded, and that means cut. That's why our option is first of all to pay the entire nursery bill, and also to increase the growth of the free income by a minimum of 1.5 billion. kr for the following year, where one third will go to counties to ensure a good secondary school, better roads and public transport. We also propose, in the revised national budget, to increase the integration grant by DKK 100 000 per refugee in order to increase the number of residents. We'll follow that up to next year. Finally, we will compensate for the loss of tax revenue for the autumn when you have an overview of the entire bill. Of course, when it comes to the cost keys, there will always be disagreement when you put two lines below the answer. But what's very important to avoid is that there's a disagreement about the facts on which they're based. Therefore, we ask the government to come back with a better explanation for the autumn after having had a process with the county municipalities. I would also like to inform you that we support proposal No. 16, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, on ferries solvents for 40 years. I see that the Progress Party in particular has been out there supporting the proposal in the media along the coast, and then I assume that there will be a majority for proposal No. 16 when we're going to vote over it this afternoon. The Labour Party believes that there is a need for changes in the municipal structure. That is why the rapporteurs and local politicians from the Workers' Party will be seen all over the country who are either engaged in or will start structural discussions. They will involve the inhabitants, organisations and employees. Then the probability of the best possible process in the communities increases, and our people out there have our warm support in that work. But there's a fundamental difference in the Great Britain with regard to the municipalities, and that's to what extent we trust local democracy. We in the Workers' Party believe that the municipalities need to sit down to find out if you are going to join one or more neighbours. The majority of the population believe that the municipalities have to sit down to find out who they are going to join. There is a fundamental difference in approach. When the government makes the financial support arrangements time-limited and announces that they will tighten up or terminate existing schemes after the reform period, the government does not give much recognition to the municipalities that say they need more time in these processes. The government's message is clear: if you do not follow our timetable, you can forget about financial support. That means that the government's carrots come with a shelf life date. When the majority of the population now support the government’s proposals, it will have consequences for local democracy. This is reflected in particular by the fact that, for the next three years — with effect from 14 May of this year — a municipality is required to borrow to build a kindergarten or a school, it shall be approved by the County Council. For each new school, nursery, nursing home or nursing home, the County State must approve the municipality's arrangements. In addition, the State must approve localisation, so that municipalities do not think of things that the neighbouring municipality does not like. It's making today's ROBEK municipalities look like state-of-the-art. This proposal is at least an expression of deep distrust of local democracy. We have also noticed the threats that small operating disadvantages will not be financed in the future, because it will be a voluntary matter. Nor is it something that the Workers' Party can join. The government's goal of the local reform is more local democracy, good and equivalent services throughout the country and economically robust municipalities. That's the goal it's easy to join, and of course the Workers' Party agrees with. But there's a very long distance between goals and instruments. A rational municipal structure can contribute a bit on the way, but it doesn't at all. For a good local economy, assumption No. 1 for good and equivalent services in the future. The government is failing on its first attempt, unfortunately. Prerequisites No. 2 is a commitment to the competence of employees. By doing so, we can get stronger professional environments and a better service provision for our citizens. The Labour Party therefore considers it very gratifying that a large and broad majority are now gathering to implement a reform of competence in the municipalities, in line with what we have said. It is a commitment when, through the majority opinion, the Stortinget states that the reform should be designed, implemented and financed in close cooperation between municipalities, employees and the State. It is a very good start for the reform of competences that the Storting is committed to the principles of reform: an expectation for employees to keep up-to-date on a professional basis a expectation for the municipalities as employers that they will facilitate professional development and continuing training close contact between the municipalities and the research and training institutions; I look forward to the municipal minister, together with the municipalities and the workers, quickly starting this very important work. Of course, we should make good suggestions and input from the Workers' Party. Finally, I would like to address the proposals which the Labour Party is involved in promoting, and also to announce support for proposal No. 16, from SV and the Central Party, on ferries release solvents.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e328	The representative Helga Pedersen has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e333	I am pleased to hear Mr Pedersen's contribution to the agreement of the Workers' Party on the reform of the municipality, i.e. a reform of democracy, both in terms of objectives, start-up in the harvest and the instruments. Nevertheless, in one newspaper after another, I see that the representative Pedersen calls the government’s arrangement ‘puzzle’. Then my question becomes: what is the Workers' Party's alternative and the proposal to make this more robust, when the objectives, start-up and instruments have been agreed upon?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e338	As I said in my post, the Workers' Party is for changes in the municipal structure. I'm glad there are several things that all the parties in this room can gather around, and I experience, among other things. there is a broad consensus that all municipalities should sit down, review their tasks and assess whether the local boundaries are a barrier to solving those tasks. I am also pleased that the Right Party and the Advance Party are in favour of volunteering verbally. But when I've said that we can't stand behind the municipal reform as it is now, it's because when it comes to substance, the government parties have smoothly ignored significant objections from us. It is about timetables, it is about the delimitation of the financial instruments, and it is not least about all municipalities being treated as ROBEK municipalities in the next three years. We can't put that behind us. I also note that the majority here will not agree to the fact that the regionally elected level should be fixed in terms of responsibility for high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e343	When I hear the representative Pedersen and that the Workers' Party does not like to approve long-term contracts or large borrowings, I dare remind you that this was exactly what the representative Pedersen's own party both proposed and implemented and laid down in relation to the regional reform. However, I will focus on another aspect, namely that the Workers' Party programme states that ‘individual municipalities must not be able to stop changes that are appropriate for regional reasons’. Then the question is, When will the Workers' Party be forced to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e348	Our approach is voluntary. I record that there is a great deal of commitment in many municipalities around the country to look at the tasks you are responsible for, and discuss whether to continue to solve them as the municipality you are today, or join someone else. I have great confidence that both local politicians and residents around the country know and understand their own best, are able to see the benefits and disadvantages of new structures and are able to find good solutions locally. So it's true that we have an exception clause in our party program, which is also expressed through our comments. We cannot rule out that there will be cases where the state has to intervene. But I want to stress that this is an exception, and our approach to this is and shall be real volunteering.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e355	I notice that one in the post focuses on tax failure and compensation for tax failure, so I have two questions for that. Would the Workers' Party, when the municipalities have VAT revenue, expect one to be deducted from VAT revenue? That's question No. 1st@item: inlistbox Question no. 2: Since the Workers' Party now announces that they will compensate for tax losses when they are in opposition, has the Workers' Party ever meant the same and implemented and proposed the same? In case, what time?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e363	I'm quite a historian, but I can only show you what we've been doing in the last ten years. Then we have managed to keep the tax revenue in the year in which it increases, and we have also gone in to compensate for the failure of the tax revenue. It is a matter of ensuring for the Workers' Party the offer to people out there, secure kindergartens, ensure a good health care provision and ensure a good school with a greater focus on early work. It's the most important thing for us, to spend the money then and not to use principles and systems that sound good on paper. The most important thing for us is to give people a good offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e368	The state economy keys have not been revised since the 1990s, and now a new model is coming out and making a change. We have put in a method to get new state keys, so that the economy gets better and more properly distributed according to the parameters that exist. This was something that the Workers' Party also worked with, but that did not make any difference. Does the Workers' Party see that there is a high time with the system that is coming now?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e373	I can agree that there should not be such a long time between reviewing the cost keys, because it is very unfortunate when you suddenly get very big changes. So I'll take it. The Labour Party also agrees that there is a need for an audit, and then things will not be like today. Some municipalities are going to get smaller, some are going to get more. We recognize that, too. But we believe it is a major problem that there is great confusion about the underlying facts and the underlying economic analysis. Before we can begin to conclude on what it will be like in the future, we should at least agree on the facts, and the county councils should have had the opportunity to say about it. I noticed, among other things. that Hedmark County, in its opinion of the hearing, called into question the fact that this is where boats and ferries are being weighed down, and yet Hedmark is getting worse as a result of it. It's actually a little bit difficult to explain.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e378	It is a little strange that a user so long on the facts when it has been known for so many years that the county income system was being revised. But enough about it. The Labour Party has over time been one of the most reform-friendly parties and has wanted new reforms. They may have come a little too fast, but they've been a propellant and are largely positive to a lot of the content of the municipal proposition when it comes to doing something about municipal structure and county structure. But one disagrees because this is going to be forced, even though the majority is clear that this is going to be largely voluntary. In an interview on 17 September 2010, the representative Helga Pedersen said quite clearly that the Workers' Party is opening to join municipalities with coercion. How does this relate to the new orientation of the representative, Helga Pedersen, today?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e385	I notice that when representatives of the bulk of the population quote me, it is a slightly selective form of quotations. But don't do that. The Labour Party has had a long and comprehensive process and good discussions – which I have not least participated in – in advance of the country meeting last year, which adopted what we have now passed through our comments and proposals here in Stortinget. We are in favour of changes in the municipal structure, but our approach to it is that it should be done on the basis of volunteering. While not many municipalities have merged, experience in recent years shows that the municipalities that have joined together have managed to achieve this after very good processes, where the inhabitants have been involved, and where the inhabitants have clearly seen the benefits of joining forces. I think that is a thought that is important to include in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e392	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e395	Today, the Stortinget adopts the starting point for a municipal reform involving the largest modernisation of the public sector in 50 years. Not all parties express active agreement to all parts of the reform. Nevertheless, we can state that the setting sends a strong signal of broad political support for the fundamental and decisive prerequisites for such an important reform: There is agreement on the objectives of a local reform to provide better services, more coordinated social development, sustainable and economically robust municipalities and strengthened local democracy. There is a common impatience after the start, and therefore the work on the municipal reform starts in August. There is a broad consensus on the best ‘package’ of the times to ensure financial predictability for merged municipalities. Yes, it has also been agreed in the Committee that merged municipalities which do not pass through 10,000 inhabitants should benefit from the reform support, as well as the other schemes. It is agreed that voluntary solutions provide the best community associations. Therefore, over-management or coercion, as it is often called, should only be used exceptionally, so that individual municipalities cannot stop changes that provide regionally sound solutions. It is also stated in the setting that the distribution of tasks between municipality, county and state should be completed in the spring of 2015, before the municipalities are expected to decide on local mergers. The municipalities are expected to finish their work during the first half of 2016, i.e. two years from now. Norwegian municipalities have many tasks, important tasks and often specialised and complex tasks, and a significant responsibility for social development and sensible spatial planning. The need for reform is widely recognised in the municipality of Norway. Nearly one third of the municipalities are already engaged in conversations and assessments. The emergence of inter-municipal cooperation also clearly demonstrates that many municipalities believe that they alone are too small to ensure sufficient quality in all services, not only on technical services, but subsequently also on child protection and other welfare services. However, the need for fewer and more robust municipalities is more than the smallest municipalities and relocations, as is often perceived in the public debate. In many places, strong population growth is on the contrary, housing, schools, roads and commercial buildings are being built. Cities and urban areas are growing together more or less, and local boundaries can be a barrier to sensible and comprehensive spatial planning. In other words, there are different challenges in different parts of the country. Now local leadership in these different parts of the country is to be deployed to make the opportunities visible and to take out the benefits of joining a neighbour or more. We live at a time when it is more relevant to measure the distance to town hall in the number of mouse clicks than the number of stone throws. Many of us sleep in one municipality, work in another municipality, go to cinema in a third and do the holy trade in a fourth. We have a common responsibility not to sit still and let a 50-year-old municipal structure restrict the possibility of high quality welfare services or the ability to create urban areas with muscles and weights to be powerful community developers. Stronger and more robust municipalities will also be able to prevent the ever-increasing centralisation and state detail management. It is a strength with Norwegian municipalities that they have – and should have – a comprehensive responsibility for welfare services, societal development and the exercise of powers. It is because we trust the inhabitants and local democracy, that the Right-Fremskrit Party government will have greater freedom for the municipalities, among others. land policy. The right-wing Party Government considers that several decisions need to be taken locally. It is good that there is less earmarking of municipal income than before. The problem is that the local space for action over time has nevertheless been restricted — if not through formal earmarking of money, then through detailed governance of legislation, guidelines, objections and state supervision. Top of the page: Local elected representatives are given the opportunity to be killed by their citizens for what the municipality does, while at the same time giving them less and less opportunity to avoid it or to do something about the problem. Right-wing municipalities that have greater freedom to design policies locally, more than just to be engaged in government-determined policies. That is why the community reform is also a local democracy reform. The government’s proposals for the local economy in 2015 generate growth in the free revenues at the level of the average over the last few years. The real space for action for municipalities will be bigger in 2015 than it is in 2014. Local authorities are receiving increased income for school knowledge, better health and social services and a stronger social safety network. Skilled and motivated employees who make an invaluable effort every day will have the opportunity to develop better services for the people they meet in everyday life. For the Right-Fremskritsparte-government, it is particularly important to give priority to those citizens who need the most. Therefore, of the growth in 2015, 200 million. be based on a special focus on health care for children and young people, while 200 million. kr shall contribute to the strengthening of the supply of mentally ill and drug addicts. Although the economic structure of municipalities in 2015 is good and the free income is increasing, there is no doubt that much of the growth continues to cover the costs of population growth. Priority will continue to be needed between good objectives and to improve the efficiency of municipal services. This is also the way it has been in the last few years under the red-green government. KS said this in an October report last year: «Tross real growth in the free income of the municipal sector in recent years has not allowed for greater room for action for local politicians.» This is clearly the red-green control period. We also warn of a change in the income system for county municipalities. Today’s system, from the 1990s, was out of date in 2005. Then since 2005, changes have been notified by the red-green government, but nothing has been delivered. The best thing to say about the power of action of the red-green government on this issue is that in its last municipal proposition it was announced that proposals would be made for changes to the proposal for 2015. I guess so. The matter was probably in the drawers in the government offices and was waiting, and it was the new government's job to bring the matter up and make suggestions. That's what the government does in its first municipal proposition -- not in its eighth or ninth. We now have a new system to help balance the real and objective differences in costs, as it is called, between county municipalities. This is not how the current income system works. It gives rise to a range of inter-communities which are difficult to justify and defend in the long term. It also has the red-green parts recognized. I take note that the red-green parties once again say that there is a need to update the cost key and get a new income system, but shadows away and pushes the matter ahead. It's probably nice for the red-greens not to take responsibility for what becomes a redistribution between the county municipalities. However, because there are also significant redistributions, it is positive that the Department proposes to facilitate the transition to a new income system through a 5-year transitional system, plus the granting of a separate loss compensation. The cooperation lots go in to further strengthen the loss compensation, and this remains constant until the next revision of the income system. In addition, we point out, as the Ministry does, that further work needs to be done on the sector key for boat and ferry to the next state budget. In the case of the income system of primary municipalities, the government has announced a more comprehensive review in spring 2016. In this round the government takes a power cap for municipalities with growing pain. But growing pain is basically a positive challenge. This means that there are many people who want to live in the municipality – people move there, families have children, and the population is growing. It's a great thing. But very rapid growth often makes the cost of schools and kindergartens come faster than income. So far, the growth grant has been very modest, almost symbolic. Now we're making it simpler and more predictable. The triggering subsidies are significantly increased. In short, several municipalities receive growth subsidies, and they receive amounts that monies more than before. The cooperation parties are pleased with this proposal, while we are impatient. Therefore, we also ask the government to assess whether it is possible to lower the threshold, or the limit, to become growth municipalities further. Nine months after the election it is safe to sum up that we have received a government with ambitions for Kommune-Norway: We have a reform for stronger municipalities – which can provide better services and take greater responsibility for local community development. We get a robust and predictable municipal economy. We need less state control and intervention. A dispute resolution body has been notified between the State and municipalities. Simplifications in the Law on Planning and Building have been adopted, and more is on the way. We're getting local democracy strengthened. That's how I could still have. The municipality shall not be under-utilisation by the State but the common arena of the inhabitants in order to perform important tasks. The municipality is the bearer of the indigenous welfare offer. The municipality is a community developer, authority practitioner and local democratic arena. In this setting, we show that we have a government and a large majority that strengthens the ability of municipalities to solve their many important tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e496	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e499	The right-wing party town council in Bergen does not conceal how disappointed they are by the government’s policies, and now announces large cuts and the reintroduction of property taxes. In the election campaign there was no way of how good the big city policy would be when Erna Solberg was going to take over, but then one negative surprise came after another: first cut in kindergarten, which for Bergen involves 19 million. kr, and now revised and the municipal bill, which reduces the free revenues by between 130 million. NOK 160 and SEK 160 million. kr. From before, it is quite well known that Bergen is struggling with a huge lag in maintenance, especially in school buildings, which is now estimated to be up to 5 billion. kr. The deficit so far is 140 million. kr, and the financial bureau of the Progress Party has announced that they have a gap of half a billion kroner. How will the Right explain to the mountains that their metropolitan policies in this way take strupe roofs on Bergen and force them into large cuts and the reintroduction of property taxes?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e508	I am asking for forgiveness because I do not know the details of the budget line in the municipality of Bergen, but I think I can confirm with certainty that insofar as the municipality of Bergen has challenges with the economy, they did not now arise. It seems that the replicator also assumes that these are challenges that may have been there over time, and it would of course be interesting if the representative would think that the previous government would also take direct responsibility for the arrangements made in Bergen. I can't answer for that. What I can answer for is that we have a robust municipal structure. We're adding up to a good growth in the free income in the future. The action space for 2015 to Norwegian municipalities is increasing, and we are strengthening the growth grant.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e516	Then I can inform you that the Right Party and the Advance Party have been overthrown Bergen for ten years. We also record that the government has a particularly arrogant approach to the municipalities and suggest that the county should at least approve the large and long-term borrowings and thus place the entire municipality of Norway under administration. How does the Right believe that the municipalities of Hordaland, and especially Bergen, experience and perceive that County Sponheim is going to override their dispositions?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e525	I record that the Workers' Party assumes that when it is a civil government, it is the government that is responsible for the economy in Bergen, while when it is a red-green government, it is the City Council in Bergen that is responsible for the economy in Bergen. We're just going to write that in that account. As far as County Sponheim's future arrangements with the municipalities of Hordaland are concerned, I believe that both Sponheim and the municipalities of Hordaland will be pleased that the county council is not going to override the municipalities, and that the municipalities are not going to be put under administration in any way. What we are talking about in the context of the reform of the municipality is that we have a set-up – which we have found to a large extent a good copy from the Labour Party in the context of the reform of the region – which is quite sensible, and which states that in order to prevent unwanted dispositions, which prevent municipal reform, and which makes some unattractive for the reform of the municipality, the state should be able to intervene. But planned investments, planned arrangements, are going to go as they've done. It is only in exceptional cases that there is State intervention.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e534	The government's expert committee believes that the need for changes in the municipal structure is particularly great around the big cities. It was also the representative Jensen inside his post. Right-wing rapporteurs in these types of municipalities have expressed strong scepticism about the proposal to be joined with the neighbour, and believe that small municipalities are the ones most in need of a change in municipal structure. Does the Right agree with the expert committee that the need for community mergers, and perhaps the upside of municipal mergers, are greatest in the areas around the big cities, or are the largest in the small district municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e541	There are different challenges in different parts of the country. In many places, municipalities are too small to be able to have sustainability alone over time. In metropolitan areas, the challenges are different. There may be pressure problems that make municipalities grow more or less together, and that there is a need to look at the municipal boundaries there too. I assume that the local politicians in the cities, in the municipalities around the cities, but also in the districts go into this with an open mind, and do not follow the representative Greni's call for boycott of this process. I trust that local politicians, either in large municipalities or in small municipalities, choose to enter into the process of community reform with open eyes, with one objective in mind, namely the best of the inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e548	I have never boycotted that process, but I will ask the representative Jensen if he does not share my view that it is incredibly difficult for a municipal politician to sit down and figure out how to solve the problems best before someone knows what to do. Now the majority is not in favour of our proposal to, for example: Secondary schools shall be added to the regional level. So now the municipalities are going to start discussing who they're going to join, without even knowing what they're going to do. Does the representative not think that local politicians will have major problems in understanding what is the best solution for their citizens when they do not know what the tasks are in the future? There won't be much difference between a municipality like this. are going to run high school, versus a municipality that is not going to have it as one of the municipal tasks?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e557	I am quite certain that Norwegian municipal politicians are well able to enter into such a discussion, and discuss the need for change, in fact even based on today's tasks. So we know that before you expect to decide on something, before you expect to decide whether to go with someone, and who to go with, the problems will be clarified. Also, when it comes to tasks at a regional or middle level, a lot will be clear when we get to spring 2015, and then you have another year to make decisions locally. I am absolutely sure that Norwegian municipal politicians are well able to handle this, in cooperation with the county officials, who are now starting the process. Either that countyman's name is Sponheim or something else, I am absolutely sure that these local processes are going to get going well. I also hope that the Central Party locally, which has previously worked very well with municipal structure issues in individual municipalities, adopts a more constructive attitude to this than what we feel the Central Party on Stortinget is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e566	In the hall here, the Right is talking very loudly about the fact that they have great confidence in local democracy. But what they're proposing is something else, especially in terms of conversion for county municipalities, because none of the county councils are allowed to comment on the new scheme and some of the criteria. It's going to turn out to be 100 million. kr too many. You don't want to hear that. You don't want to listen to KS, which is the municipality's organisation, which says they're missing 850 million. NOK only for kindergarten and 240 million. to ensure public transport. Then you also talk about the municipalities getting more freedom now, and then KS says, "But there's not enough money for that." Then you shouldn't create expectations, says the representative Jensen, while they say that the municipalities will spend 200 million. $200 million for alcohol and psychiatry. kr to health sisters, without earmarking it. Is this not typical distrust of local politicians, that they do not know what they are doing, when they do not even understand their own economy, as the representative Jenssen clearly believes?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e575	The last statement I think will almost be on Karin Andersen's own account. I have not suggested anything like that, nor do I believe it. We have a financial arrangement for 2015 that gives greater scope for action than 2015. We add up to a robust and predictable local economy and a growth that is in line with the average in the period when SV put in government. So I don't think we have anything to be ashamed of at all. On the contrary, I think it is important that we signal that there will be growth in municipal incomes, while stressing that when we contribute growth to the economy – and there is a difference between this government and the previous government – it is important that we do not oversell any growth in the local economy. In previous years we have heard that every time it grew, it became record-breaking – now everything has to be solved, now everything has to be sorted out. Then it is the municipal politicians who are left with the increased expectations of the inhabitants that they are unable to meet. We are concerned that we do not contribute to building those expectations, but have a realistic relationship with the growth of the local economy. It's growing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e584	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e587	The Christian People's Party suggests that political decisions should be taken at the lowest appropriate level. This presupposes that power distribution and funding are such that both municipalities and county municipalities have the means to carry out their tasks. The municipality is the main provider of welfare services, and this requires a predictable and good local economy. There is a broad consensus that there must be consistency between the tasks assigned to the municipality and the finances of the municipality. It is therefore essential that state reforms and impositions are followed up by sufficient free means. Municipalities are first-line services for business and social development. This also requires revenue to be proportionate to the responsibilities and obligations arising therefrom. It is important both for a good service offer in the municipalities and – not least – for maintaining trust between local government and incorporating the fact that new services that are subject to the municipalities or transferred from state to municipality are fully funded from day one. The government is adding to a real growth in the total income of the local government sector in 2015 of the order of 4.5 to 5 billion. kr. The Christian People's Party presupposes that the growth of free income covers the increase in the costs of municipal demography, wages and pensions, as well as the provision of improved services, as expressed by the government. Although the government is concerned not to create high expectations for local policy enforcement, the best way to enable local politicians to meet their expectations is to enable municipalities to have a good service. This is done most effectively by strengthening the local economy, so that municipalities can afford to provide a good service. Debt levels have increased sharply in recent years. The main reason for this development is a high level of investment and related debt financing. Total long-term liabilities amounted to around 380 billion at the end of 2012. kr. Interest rate exposure is estimated to be well over 125 billion. kr. 1 percentage point higher interest rates in isolation will burden the local economy with about 1.25 billion. kr. This makes the Christian People's Party concerned about the increasing debt in Norwegian municipalities. This makes municipalities very vulnerable to any interest rate increase, and municipalities are facing an uncertain future in purely economic terms. The freedom of action, decision-making and autonomy of local authorities are limited. Through this proposition, a new income model for county municipalities has been put in place. Such a revision has been announced and promised for several years. Now, when it comes into place, it's no big surprise who has to go through the greatest changes. Sogn and Fjordane and parts of North Norway are now receiving less transfers than before, but they are receiving loss compensation to help with the transition to a new system. I am glad that, through the treatment in Stortinget, we were able to increase the funds for the loss compensation. At the same time, it is important for the government to follow closely the situation in Sogn and Fjordane in particular, so that there is no unwarranted deterioration in the service provision in this county. One thing that came into place during the treatment in Stortinget, which will benefit the fjords and mountains of Sogn and Fjordane, is a system for ferries release agents as for the county roads. This will provide greater opportunities and incentives to replace ferry links with bridges and tunnels and will improve living conditions for citizens as well as better business environment. This is a very positive result of the treatment in Stortinget. I would also like to point out that the earmarked grant for camp schools is being continued. This ensures that children throughout the country will still have an offer of camp school at the 140 pedagogues in the 70 camp schools across the country. So the 6th grade will still be able to take part in the amazing experiences of such a stay at a camp school. Rapid residence after a residence and work permit has been granted is of great importance for the individual’s adaptation to and participation in the Norwegian community. The municipalities today have fewer residents than the UDI requests, and several municipalities say no to settlement. Therefore, we are pleased that all municipalities are now being asked to settle, as opposed to before. Although we lived in 2013 more than one year earlier, we see that by the end of March 1 100 more people were sitting in Norwegian reception waiting for us than at the same time last year. The Christian People's Party has repeatedly called for increased integration grants and investment grants for municipal housing and is pleased that both the Stoltenberg II Government and the Solberg Government have seen the need to strengthen these schemes. We are therefore pleased that the government also strengthens the commitment framework for grants to rental properties. At the same time, we are concerned that the group waiting for housing is growing, and is concerned that we need to continue strengthening the local authorities' capacity and resources to settle in order to target the settlement of all those who are now sitting on reception and waiting. The Christian People's Party welcomes the fact that the government's proposal to wind up the reimbursement scheme for child protection measures for lone minor asylum seekers is not being made into reality. In recent years, there has been an active commitment to housing and assistance for lone minor asylum seekers, and we therefore see a faster settlement of this group. This is one of the most vulnerable groups in our society, and winding up the reimbursement system would be a big step in the wrong direction. Finally, I would like to talk about the second important part of this debate, namely the community reform. The Christian People's Party welcomes the community reform. Some municipalities may benefit from joining forces, which must primarily be stimulated by good local cooperation solutions focusing on local democracy, good services for the inhabitants and well-functioning entities. Many welfare and service tasks have become highly specialised, and a number of municipalities face challenges in recruiting and maintaining robust professional environments. In order to maintain the balance between local democracy and the state, it may be necessary to establish larger and more robust municipalities. The size should be able to accelerate the aggregation of several municipalities where there are obvious benefits of such aggregation. The economic incentives that are used to bring about appropriate community mergers are good and will be significant carrots for the many municipalities that are now considering a merger. At the same time, there may be little aggregation for municipalities with large geographic extent and scattered settlement or peripheral location. Therefore, it is necessary to ensure that municipalities with large operating disadvantages and small possibilities for pooling with other municipalities have a financial basis in order to provide the population with an equivalent service provision. The boundaries of the county should not prevent new border divisions in the context of the community reform, but they can be moved or removed entirely through a new regional reform. The Christian People's Party is pleased that, in parallel with the municipal reform, investigations on a future elected regional level are to be reviewed and put together and seen in the context of the reform. The Christian People's Party assumes that the professional and unreserved review is in line with the expert committee's work on primary municipalities. Larger regions than the current counties will allow more tasks to be tackled regionally. It assumes that the Storting and the Ministries will give power to the regional assemblies, so that there will be a real democratic reform in which decisions and power will be transferred from central agencies to regions and to municipalities. It's going to be an exciting process we're going to meet in the next few years, and the Christian People's Party wants to have a constructive attitude towards the processes that are going to take place. Some tasks are most appropriate to add to the regional level. Then there is a need for larger and more powerful regions than today's counties. Regionalisation of State activities should be consistent as far as possible with the popularly elected managed regions. Today, we see that state regions in the various sectors have quite different boundaries. This may not be appropriate in the long term. Transport and infrastructure measures and personal and commercial instruments need to be seen more closely. All these are tasks that require political priorities. They are too extensive for each municipality to discharge its responsibilities. A policy-driven regional level will thus be a necessary tool for bringing power and decision-making closer to those involved — and where people live.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e633	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e637	On the Internet newspaper on 12 June we read that the representative Tuskedal was very pleased with the negotiations with the government parties. The title was: «KrF can smile at last». I dare the representatives of the Christian People's Party to smile, but what strikes me is that all the measures Christian People's Party agreed with the government on, the Christian People's Party could agree with us on. In addition, the Christian People's Party was able to get through to cover the entire child care bill, compensate the tax deficit in the municipalities and get more money to settle refugees – so it was done more quickly. When the Christian People's Party has agreed with the government parties, the representative Tuskedal smiles, I wonder how happy the representative thinks he was if he had negotiated with the Workers' Party and got even more money for both kindergartens and refugees.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e644	I would like to thank you for a very pleasant reply. Of course I'm smiling. That the media noticed it, was in place, because in cooperation with the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left, we got things that were very important to us, and that we hadn't gotten through for the past – things we've been waiting to get through for, and that we know other parties, in the red-green government, also didn't get through for. When the representative now suggests that the Workers' Party could give us all of this, I take note of it with great interest and thank you for it. But we're very pleased with the insights we've been given. I can mention regional level, health care, drugs, psychiatry, loss compensation, camp schools and a lot of other things, which we have managed to influence in this year's municipal proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e651	With that answer, it's just to look forward to next year's negotiations on the municipal proposition. But I wonder exactly what was so important for the Christian People's Party, when one prioritised agreement with the government parties rather than getting through to pay the entire kindergarten bill and make housing faster by increasing the integration grant to the municipalities. This could be done in addition to all the other very important things that the Christian People's Party has described. In concrete terms, why did the Christian People's Party choose agreement with the government parties, when what has been essentially done, is to reverse some bad suggestions from the government – which, of course, we fully agree with the Christian People's Party to reverse?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e658	Like a 5,6 pst party. opening up is our role to influence as far as we can, and we have achieved that – perhaps more than we had hoped for in this context. In the case of kindergartens, we've put in place 175 million. kr, and we believe that although it is a tight local economy, it is fully feasible. We take with us the recordings that now come from both municipalities and counties, and look forward to the state budget in the autumn to take up what is important for the Christian People's Party further. I expect that in further negotiations we will also have reason to smile.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e665	A unanimous committee is in favour of continuing the reimbursement scheme for lone minor asylum seekers, but it does not support the proposals of the Central Party, the Workers' Party and the SV to link it to the existing system of reimbursement of child protection measures for this group. May the representative confirm that the proposed reimbursement scheme will be linked to child protection measures for lone minor asylum seekers, that there will be a continuation of the current scheme and with a level of support at least at the current level, i.e. 80 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e672	As I have seen that situation, the answer to that is yes. The Christian People's Party will work to maintain the 80pst system of day. Reimbursement, the existence of the scheme, and we will fight for it in the further work as well. It's a very important matter for the Christian People's Party. The case has two sides: it is about reimbursing municipalities as much as possible for the real costs they have, and it is not least that children and young people in question receive an optimal service offer. My answer is yes, the Christian People's Party will work for this arrangement to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e679	There is no doubt that the Christian People's Party both yesterday when we discussed agriculture, and today when we are discussing community economics, had gained much more insight into its matters and views together with the red-greens than with the Progress Party and the Right. One of the things that the government is now signaling, and that I am surprised to see that the Christian People's Party has joined, is that you have to distribute money to crooks. In other words, there must be a weakening of income-balancing between – now – municipalities and, in the future, the municipalities. Municipalities who make a lot of money should keep more of them themselves and not share so much with others. For example, the conversion of corporation tax would work this way. I wonder if this is an ideological change in the Christian People's Party, if they think this is a good way to do it – for example. to increase the growth grant, to which SV fully agrees. You do it by taking money from everyone instead of putting this money on top of the economy and not weakening the distribution. Why does the Christian People's Party feel that a good policy of distribution is less important, even between municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e690	I can assure you that there is no new ideology at the root of our choice and our position on this matter and the matters for which we are working. We believe that there should be the most equivalent service provision in this country, in all municipalities. But at the same time: if we are to stimulate growth, we must stimulate increased quality of living, etc., municipalities with good incomes must be allowed to do so. The municipal freedom we want them to have. But for the Christian People's Party, it is very important that the inhabitants have an equivalent service offer throughout the country. That's our primary ideology, and we'll continue to work for it. In terms of our efficiency and where we get the most counting, I think SV might also have knowledge of what it might be like to be in greater cooperation. We take the wins we can, and we work to influence where we can, and we believe that we have achieved more than we had hoped.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e697	The entire political environment in Sogn and Fjordane is very disappointed by the new income system of county municipalities, including representatives from the Right and the Advance Party, but also the Left and Christian People's Party. This leads to a decrease of 230 million. kr – 10 pst. by the operating budget. There are major implications for the service provision, such as the further training courses that need to be closed, the routes that need to be operated up, and the maintenance of roads that need to be reduced. Is the Christian People's Party satisfied with the loss compensation scheme put in place, or are they willing to look at it again, especially in the light of the removal of the income guarantee system for this course?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e704	After many years of red-green paralysis, where you didn't do anything about the county economy and the county keys even if you knew it was wrong, and that you told me you were going to do it, you've now started an audit. I assume that the keys used are selected on the basis of objective criteria. I know that in Sogn and Fjordane they knew about this situation and were partly prepared for it, and it was also launched in the media. The Christian People's Party is satisfied that we got 30 million in place. kr extra in loss compensation. I have been in contact with politicians in Sogn and Fjordane, and we will look into this now beyond the fall in view of the state budget and follow the situation closely. It's not just Sogn and Fjordane, it could also apply to other states, especially in North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e711	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e715	It is a comprehensive case complex that Stortinget has to deal with. The municipal proposition is one of the major issues each spring, but this year the matter is considerably expanded by the fact that the Storting should deal with proposals for this decade's largest public reform – the government's proposal for a new municipal structure, where we will go from 428 to 100 municipalities if the government gets what it wants. The government's municipal reform had earned a broader and more thorough treatment both in Stortinget and in Kommune-Norway than the urgent work to which it is added. The expert committee, which has investigated the basis for the reform, received barely three months of its work, and the Stortinget case is presented only as a notification part of the ordinary municipal proposal. On the part of Storting, we regret that the government is adding up to a process that provides such a widespread basis for building on a professional basis, and that is going to happen at a speed that puts both us and the municipalities under an unfortunate pressure. It may seem that the government is afraid of the consequences of giving us local politicians the opportunity to take a thorough look at the reasons and objectives of the reform. Return to the ordinary municipal proposition, which this year also proposes the conversion of cost keys for county municipalities – a major case in itself. The government has set up an economic structure for the municipalities that will make major demands on the ability of municipal politicians to cut costs. The reality is that the financial framework will provide the local government sector for 2015, will not allow the maintenance of service production at the current level, while at the same time implementing the requirements for new measures imposed. The Central Party proposes to increase the municipal framework by 3 billion. kr. There is a lot of money, but it is absolutely necessary if the service is to be maintained. In the majority's proposal, there are a number of gaps that will create imbalances in local authorities' accounts. The aftertaste of kindergartens is more than 800 million. kr will not be covered up, the government’s commitment to school health services, health spending and psychiatry represents 400 million. kr, increased bet on county roads 150 million. kr, all assumed to be covered within the framework. On top of all this, the tax revenue for the local government sector of more than 1 billion will be lost. kr. The proposal of the Central Party for three billion dollars. kr in an increased framework is money that goes with the municipalities if they are to maintain the current level of service. We remember the name ‘Jern-Erna’ from Erna Solberg’s year as Minister for Municipalities. It looks like Jan Tore Sanner has intended to make her rank hard. In the 2014 budgetary procedure, the issue of cuts in the reimbursement scheme of child protection measures for lone minor asylum seekers was a difficult matter. The government reduced the reimbursement rate in addition to the municipal abstinence from 100 to 80 pst. It now proposes to remove the whole scheme, but says that the bulk of the money should go to strengthen the ordinary integration grant for lone minor asylum seekers. An overall committee will continue the reimbursement system, but the Central Party, together with the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left, stands for proposals to maintain the reimbursement system as a separate scheme. I have registered that several municipalities now ask what it is Stortinget really means. My call is to help clear all doubts by voting in favour of the proposal we have promoted. The cost keys of the county municipalities are mature for review. We all agree on that. The question is whether the government's proposals for amendments give a result the states can live with and are perceived as correct. The Committee’s consultation showed that there were major objections to some of the government’s calculations and proposals for new factors in the cost keys. I think it is regrettable that the new cost keys are based on a number of factors that are not adequately illuminated. In addition, it is proposed to replace the current income guarantee scheme in a way that further reinforces the large redistribution of the counties between them. It's dramatic when Sogn and Fjordane lose 10 pst. by its revenue base, or approx. 230 million. kr, while Oslo gets close to 600 million. kr. in session frames. In view of all the uncertainties arising on the basis of the Government's proposal, the Central Party considers that implementation should be postponed. The government must facilitate a broader process, with consultations and consultations with the county councils, before proposing changes to the cost keys for the counties are re-submitted in the municipality proposal for 2016. In that arrangement, a system of holiday-release solvents must also be established. We and SV are proposing this today, while the majority are careful to ask the government to consider such a scheme. So to the municipal reform, and let it be clear: the central party does not support the government's approach to municipal reform, but rather participates in a debate on reforms that strengthen the role of the municipal sector. We would like to contribute to decisions that reduce the extent of government governance of the response solutions. But that's not what we're dealing with here today. Strengthening the role of primary and county municipalities in the government is not a matter of removing three-quarters of its municipalities. It is a matter of willingness to decentralize power and authority from state to local level. The central party shares the government's view when it says it will have a municipal structure adapted to tomorrow's challenges. The natural follow-up to such a view is that the work of the Storting with a municipal reform begins with proposals for changes in the division of tasks between the levels of government, which strengthen municipalities and county councils and reduce government governance both through task-solving and through reduced detail management. But that's not the government's idea. Their model, which, to my surprise, is endorsed by the Christian People's Party and the Left, is a reform in which the structure is the most important and task-sharing is something we can discuss in retrospect. The Central Party and the Socialist Left promote a proposal whereby the Stortinget asks the Government to provide a review of the division of tasks between the levels of government with proposals for decentralisation to the lowest effective level. That review shall form the basis for further consideration of the government's municipal reform. I think there is a great room for simplification in the state governance of the local government sector through reduced designation and simplification of control and oversight regimes. Such measures do not depend on changes in the municipal structure. I hope several support the proposal where we ask the government to ‘reduce a public body to go through the scope and impact of government governance in the municipal sector’ and, not least, ‘promoting simplification proposals’. Together with the discussion of the municipal reform is also the consideration of the Left's proposal for a representative, which proposes that the three-level model in the Norwegian administration be maintained. This is an important proposal, because the government parties initially want a two-tier model. In the mandate given to the Committee of Experts, the further role of county councils has not been made part of the investigative mission. Most people find it quite pointless to have to investigate the municipalities of the future without knowing whether the county municipalities should still be part of the administration. Although there is reason to ask why the Left does not support more of the proposals in the setting, which are almost taken from the party's own reasons, it is important that we establish that the Stortinget assumes that we should continue to base the administration on three levels, and that the government is required to carry out the tasks of the county councils in parallel with the tasks of the municipalities. It's a victory. The Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation will probably argue that the Stortinget has given its support to the main points of his reform. Plural is a majority, that's what it is. But when the Council of State presented its approach to the municipal reform, he repeatedly underlined the importance of having a broad majority in the Stortinge behind him, and he drew particular attention to the Workers' Party's support. The Labour Party has now put its foot down for forced reform. He's left with a narrow majority. Both the arrangements and the timetable run in relation to previous assumptions. The size gives a clear indication that the tasks need to be in place before the map is drawn. The size also gives clear signals that the role of county councils should be incorporated into further work. The correctiveness of the size during the day’s treatment must be clearly communicated. There is no broad majority behind the government's proposal. That premise is gone, and the further process needs to be done. I think it should now be taken as an 'time-out' in the reform process. The local authorities must have a better factual basis in terms of tasks and schedules, before they move forward, and they must not be pressured by the government to initiate investigations, and waste money on them, until the tasks are in place. It is also an important change in the committee position to re-establish inter-municipal cooperation as a natural part of the organisation of municipal activities, in both small and large municipalities. In 2017, the whip is due. The government has threatened the loss of financial support to those who have not completed the merger before then. It's just a threat. Under the partitioning law, residents are to be allowed to make their views known in a process in which the municipality assesses the merger of municipalities. It is a good tradition that citizens express their opinion in a referendum. I am responding to the government's opinion that local referendums should be replaced by a resident quiz. We should not be in favour of that, in the name of democracy. Finally, I would like to address the suggestions made by the Central Party in the vote, either alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e774	The representative Heidi Greni has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e779	The case of a new income scheme for county councils has a doctor as a workplace in the last red-green government. How can the representative, Mr Greni, explain that the red-green government was suing for a new income system for the county councils in the drawer of the late Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, Liv Signe Navarsete, for four years, without setting up an obsolete and out-of-date income system? Is the representative of Mr Greni in agreement with his own party colleague, Mrs Følling, who stated in a debate in Mr Sogn and Mr Fjordane that this is due to the fact that the red-green parties did not want to take the political consequences of a new income system for the county councils?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e786	I agree – the whole committee agrees – that it was time to revise the county cost keys. In the last period, we had a major revision of the cost keys for the municipalities. It was a tough thing. It was our intention to come up with a case about the county before the municipality proposal – it became very demanding. In particular, it was demanding to put in place good and objective cost keys in relation to transport, especially in ferries. So the reason it didn't come was that it was very demanding to find objective criteria. The challenge of what has come today is that it is hopeless to see what are objective criteria, and what are really policies, in the new cost keys. There is no comprehensive explanation as to how they are snowcreted, and the sub-cost keys have not been clarified. When we presented the cost keys for the municipal sector, we presented the sub-cost keys – we made it quite clear how this has come about. The municipalities were dissatisfied and satisfied, but they knew at least what made them so.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e793	In Nord-Trøndelag a few years ago, the municipalities of Mosvik and Inderøy joined forces – a voluntary community merger, initiated locally, and certainly an example for follow-up, Heidi Greni and I can agree on. The former centre party rapporteur in Mosvik said that the inhabitants of old Moscow now have a better service offer in the new municipality of India than they would have had if Mosvik had remained alone. It's a central party rapporteur, I'm familiar with it, also in the new municipality. I can mention a passerby that the municipality of Moscow did not have a referendum. It might have been tempting to ask the representative Greni what she thinks about it, but I won't. I'm going to challenge the representative, Mr. Greni, on something else, because there's something I haven't heard from the Central Party. It would have been very interesting to hear the Center Party say in their own words what advantages it can give the residents to join the municipalities. What are the challenges of joining two or more municipalities in a larger unit?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e802	I fully agree with the representative Jensen that the municipal merger between Inderoy and Moscow was a good process. That was a good result, and the inhabitants are very satisfied. It's just because it was based on volunteering, it was based on local initiative, and it was based on good local processes. There was no whip at the other end that made you have to make hasty decisions because you had a deadline to get it done. There are many good and bad arguments for merging municipalities. In order for a community merger to be relevant, it is the case that the good arguments on the scale must be much greater than the bad ones. It is clear that one saves a rapporteur, one has other costs at the other end. You save some administrative staff, which you might be able to re-dispose to other things. But at the same time you can also wear some economies of scale. My approach to that is that local politicians know what weighs more heavily on that scale. It is local politicians who know whether the benefits are greater than the disadvantages, or vice versa.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e811	The representative, Mr. Greni, said in reply now that it is difficult to see what is policy, and what is subject, when it relates to cost keys. To that end, I would say that the cost keys are kind of professional, and what is politics is tax evasion and other supplements – that is what is very clear politically. There has been a move towards favoring the rural communities that come out worse. - Just so they say. What I want to ask you is the Central Party's proposal for a holiday settlement, which came after the government party, the Christian People's Party and the Left were out there and said that we wanted to get a model in place. I note that one now comes up with a concrete proposal, while one today calls for the release of the cost keys to evaluate the holiday solution. My question is, why does a 40-year-old say? When the red-green government has laid the groundwork 30 years for national road ferries in its arrangement, why does one say 40 years, after the government party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have said 40 years in the media?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e820	As Njåstad knows, we first had a 40-year comment on the committee. Then we went back to 30 years, because it was part of the state highway construction. Then we received reports from the county councils that our local politicians wanted a 40-year scheme. After recording from there, and a thorough assessment, we found out that we wanted to land in 40 years. That's the explanation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e825	There are today more municipalities in Norway than it was in 1837, and that is a crossroads of thought. Over 100 years, the number doubled, and then it went back to 428. And we've gone away from the expert committee, which amounted to 100, and we understand that was a hypothetical number. But then I registered in the representative Grenis posts that what we thought was a reward was referred to as a ‘threat’, and that was interesting to me. Does the representative think that the reward schemes now in place are prejudicial to a good community reform, as the country needs?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e832	I do not believe carrots are a barrier to a good municipal reform, but I believe that the 2017 deadline and that all carrots disappear in 2017 are a barrier to a good municipal reform, because this means that the municipality is not allowed time to have the good process, time to get good local processes to decide whether to join someone, and who to join. The fact that 2017 is set as such a threat time – if you haven’t joined anyone until then, all the carrots disappear – is what is the threat perspective in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e837	Just after this reform and the agreement between the four parties was presented, Greni said that she asked the municipalities to "tear" this. Some of the paradox in what we have in front of us today is that we have an Labour Party that is forward-looking and in many ways reformative, but that they end up in a different position, as they have also explained themselves. The representative, Greni, points out that yesterday's answer might be what's more correct, where the Labour Party wants to point forward. Is the Center Party and Greni happy that their old partner is so reforming, when her own party won't be on that march? I would also like to ask the representative, Mr. Greni, when we are no longer in the Chamber here, etc.Does the representative see any advantage in merging any municipalities at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e847	Yes, I see advantages in merging some municipalities, and I think that where local politicians see that the benefits are greater than the disadvantages, the Central Party has been a driver and has stood up to our local politicians to get it done. Then there are many places where the Central Party politicians take the initiative to get a municipal merger where the Left, Christian People's Party, Progressive Party and Right politicians have put their feet down so well that nothing has happened. After all, we have all seen the newspaper essays in the address paper where left-wing politicians were forced to stay away from the municipal board meeting because they were interested in going for an investigation of municipal mergers. So there are many advantages, as I said to the previous replicator here, and there are many disadvantages, but it's only the local politicians who have enough local knowledge to balance whether the benefits are greater than the disadvantages.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e856	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e859	The left is satisfied with the fact that there is now a majority in Stortinget to carry out a municipal reform during the current period. Local self-government is a cornerstone of democracy, and municipalities must be equipped to carry out the tasks they have in relation to the population. The left would like to move more tasks and decisions closer to them, but then we also depend on the municipalities getting bigger. We want larger municipalities that can transfer more power and authority than is the case today. Many municipalities no longer have the opportunity to take an overall approach to industrial development, environmental policies, land use and increasingly complex and demanding public services, including: in the field of health and care. We are therefore pleased that we have the necessary modernisation of the municipalities, where municipalities are adapted to the challenges of the future, and where they are able to accept more and more tasks. The first sub-examination of the expert committee provides a good starting point for the further process and provides a thorough account of the status of municipalities. The left has noted in particular the extensive use of inter-municipal companies and hopes that the need to continue them in larger municipalities will be greatly reduced after the reform. The power must be moved out of closed meeting rooms and back to the municipal government halls. With regard to the conclusions of the sample, the Left is aware that there is no lower limit on how many inhabitants a municipality should have – until the geography of our country is too varied. Special arrangements must be made for island municipalities and other municipalities where the geography makes the aggregation of municipalities less topical. The merger of municipalities should take place on a voluntary basis, and we feel that there is a willingness to do the necessary measures. We are clear that all municipalities have a responsibility to participate in the reform process, and we have formulated this through an investigative responsibility. So you can't sit on the side line. Everybody's got to be in. The left has been concerned that there should be some carrots for municipalities that go together. We support the scheme of standardised and predictable support schemes, and it is of particular importance that municipalities retain the breakdown grant over a longer period of 20 years. However, we believe that there should also be room for support for infrastructure measures, as this can often have a lubricating effect on processes. We have therefore asked the government in the context of the State budget to explain how to promote infrastructure measures in the context of NTP. Otherwise, Left supports the progress plan to which it is added. It will be demanding for many municipalities, and it is a great responsibility at the county offices. With regard to the concrete approach to bundling, the Left points out that municipalities must also have control over the involvement of their own citizens in the reform process and even assess whether a popular vote is desirable. For the Left, it has been essential in the context of the municipal reform to establish that we will have three elected levels, and we are pleased that there is a majority in the United Kingdom who want elected government at regional level. We also believe that the municipal reform requires reform of the county municipality, and we want to replace the county with a popular regional level. The municipal reform will result in the new municipalities taking over tasks that are currently located in the county municipalities. At the same time, we know that there are a number of regional challenges that it is not natural to distribute between 19 county municipalities. Reforming the county is therefore a prerequisite for maintaining three elected levels, and not least one must look at all the levels around that level per day. The fact that you also have an identity, and not least a coincidence, makes you also have to look at this, the same problems. And it is vital that we look at, at the same time as the municipal reform, how we revitalise the elected level between the state and the municipality by establishing regions to replace the county municipalities. For the Left, this is about moving power from state level down to regional and not least municipal level. We need to look at the tasks to be added to the new municipalities, and it is natural and necessary to look at what tasks can be done at that level. In the context of the task review, we shall conclude which tasks are to be added to the different levels. The principle of subsidiarity has always been important for the Left and is governing: tasks must be solved at a level that is closest to the population. The establishment of a regional level will strengthen the democratic dimension of municipal reform by opening up to shifting more and more government tasks downwards, for which we also had a proposal last week, for which there was also a majority at that time. Even with larger municipalities, the distance to Stortinget will be too large for many, and therefore it is important precisely with the regional level. The consideration of local self-government and the confidence of the local people elected does not immediately support the bill sent by the government to consult on the approval of municipal borrowings and long-term leases by the State. The scheme is proposed to prevent purely strategic adaptations or dispositions in the run-up to the municipal reform, but is a significant intervention in local self-government. The left will therefore await the consultation round and the legislative proposal announced for the harvest before considering such an authorisation scheme. The structure of the municipal sector is tight, and it will be demanding for many municipalities to prioritise within the given framework. It must be prioritised and made more effective. However, the downside of excessive growth in public expenditure is also high, although it may seem distant in the times we now experience. The left, however, is pleased that municipalities are growing in free income, and that it is set at 200 million. kr to health centres and school health services, and not less than 200 mill. AIDS and mental health. Psychiatric health and children and young people are important areas for the Left, and we are pleased that the government indicates that one will bet within these areas. With regard to the revision of the scheme for 2014, we are also very pleased that the Left and Christian People's Party helped to increase the population grant by 175 million. DKK to cover the costs of municipal children's playgrounds, as a result of under-estimation of the need for childcare facilities after an increase in cash support. In the government's efforts to renew, simplify and improve the public sector, the Left is committed to contributing to simpler and better services for citizens. Modern ICT solutions need to be developed, and the Executive and ICT Directorate is an important driver of innovation in the public sector. The left is pleased that one now has a particular focus on the municipal sector. The left is otherwise pleased with the continuation of the 16-year-old voting experiment, but regrets that the majority does not agree to extend the attempt with the aim of making it a permanent scheme. The left supports the conversion of the income system for county municipalities, which rectifys the underfinancing of many county municipalities. However, we are concerned that some county municipalities need to carry out significant cuts as a result of reductions in income. It is therefore essential to strengthen the compensation scheme for the most deprived municipalities by increasing annual aid amounts and extending the aid period. For some county municipalities, the conversion of the income system entails significant reductions in income, which would have to have consequences in terms of cost cuts in several areas. The left is particularly concerned about high school. We hope the reinforced compensation system will help mitigate the negative effect, but we will follow developments closely beyond the harvest. However, we are pleased that, in cooperation with the government parties and the Christian People's Party, we have been given a majority in favour of a system of holiday-relieving agents on the county road network, where the ferry fee is continued for at least 40 years, when the ferry is replaced by a bridge or a tunnel. In the case of the income system in municipalities, the Left is pleased that the growth grant increases from 61.2 million. kr to approx. 340 million. kr. Municipalities with high investment needs as a result of strong population growth will need larger transfers. The left considers that there is reason to consider whether the threshold can be lowered, so that more municipalities with growth challenges are included in the scheme, and await the government’s assessment of this in the context of the state budget. As regards the residence of refugees, the Left will stress the importance of rapid residence after the residence and work permit has been granted. Very many people today are in reception and waiting to be settled. It is very stressful for individuals and inhibits their integration into society. We are therefore pleased that all municipalities now receive a request for the settlement of refugees and that the grant schemes are strengthened, but we are concerned that this might not seem sufficient. The scheme of reimbursement of municipal expenditure on child protection measures for lone minor asylum seekers and refugees was proposed to be integrated into the general scheme of grants for the housing of lone minor asylum seekers and refugees. This is a purely savings measure that affects the municipalities that have invested and that have integrated disadvantaged young people into school and working life. We already know that the proportion introduced by the red-green government, which was subsequently elevated by the sitting government, has caused some municipalities to cut in the offer. We are therefore pleased that we now have a broad majority to maintain the reimbursement system, which ensures a proper offer to those who need it the most. We are also very pleased that we have done this with camp school, which is also mentioned earlier in the debate. Finally, a word about the announced termination of the test system with State purchasing responsibility at Bratsbergbanen: for the Left, it is important to connect the railway between Notodden and Porsgrunden. It connects Telemark, and we believe it is natural for the state to contribute. We are therefore pleased that a majority in the UK agrees to postpone the assessment of the future of Bratsbergbanen to budgetary work. On behalf of the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, I therefore promote the following proposal: ‘The government is asked to come back with an assessment of the financing of the Bratsberg Railway in connection with the State budget for 2015.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e925	The representative André N. Skelstad has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change. The President will draw attention to the fact that there is a greater demand for lines than there is room for, so everyone can't get.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e932	The representative of Skkelstad and the Workers' Party share the view that we should have three elected levels here in the country. As late as yesterday, the representative Skkelstad in Trönder-Avisa wrote that important decisions were taken in Stortinget this past week, among others. anchoring a popular regional level. I note that Mr Skkelstad did not promote his own proposal in committee. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of a new state-elected regional level to replace the county, in parallel with further work on a municipal reform.’ The Chairman of the Committee and the rapporteur of the case have made a proposal which the undersigned will consider to be a number of weaker wordings. My question to the representative at Skkelstad is: What are the expectations of the Left and Skjelstad for the government's further process of municipal reform, with the premise of a regional level?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e948	We're pleased that we've got the government parties on this that confirm the regional level. It is clear that it was important that we had an impact on this. We also see that the remaining parties, especially the Workers' Party, support that idea. We think that's good. We do not at least think it is good that we have got the government on a more obligating point, so that we can implement this in parallel, with what is stated in the comments in the setting. I think this makes us get the forward-looking regions, which, not least, Kjerkol's party trap and County Council leaders in the North Trøndelag are eager to see. I think that by creating the regional opportunities that lie in it, we are getting progress. I believe that the Labour Party also agrees with us that this provides more opportunities and stronger and more sustainable regions than today's counties.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e955	On most occasions, the left has referred to himself as a warm defender of local democracy and said that they have great confidence in local democracy. It's affordable and good. In what way does the Left believe that local democracy and local government are strengthened by the fact that all municipal borrowings and not least the location of e.g. nursing homes and kindergartens are now to be approved and, where appropriate, to be tested by the State of County? Does the Left believe that supporting such a proposal is to give confidence to the local people when they can no longer determine where to place the new kindergarten, without the government overseeing it through the State?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e964	I expect that there are many documents to read and not least much to hear: just a few minutes ago I said that we do not support it until further notice. We want to wait until the consultation round is over, because it's also about local democracy, and then hear what people think about it. The Left is not going to be critical of the reform of borrowing, because we believe it does not provide the necessary opportunities for local democracy. I think they'll be able to take responsibility for themselves. At the same time, I do not see this as the representative Lauvås, namely that this is a bond of where the different things should lie. I don't think so. But we, as a party, are critical of binding the municipalities by approving this. We are.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e973	In the representative proposal from the Left on the county council, it is called, among other things,\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The proposers consider it inappropriate to introduce a municipal reform that is not based on an administrative three-tier model.’ In the vote on the Left's proposal, the party joins in a decision to review the tasks of the county council, but they do not support proposals to maintain an administrative three-level model, they do not support proposals to establish that the county council will continue to be responsible for secondary schools, and they do not support proposals which are clearly left's own formulations in the grounds for raising this proposal. Why on earth does the Left not support these proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e985	As the representative Njåstad said earlier today, there will be a confirmation of the regional intermediate level, and there will be fewer municipalities – in order to use the own words of the Progress Party. It's a confirmation. The representative, Greni, says that the responsibility for the secondary schools per day lies with the county municipalities. We haven't landed that question. We see that the Labour Party is promoting a proposal that this responsibility should remain at regional level. Maybe that'll be the solution. Personally, I see some challenges in placing that responsibility at the municipal level, because I'm a little afraid that there might be a fragmented offer in secondary schools. But we haven't taken that debate, we haven't landed this question, and we don't advance that debate, as the opposition does in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e992	The representative of Skelstad from the left says that the municipal structure is going to be crowded, and that's what it is. It is an area in which SV is very concerned, and which I had expected the Left to have also taken care of in the municipal economy, namely the responsibility of the municipalities to follow up the climate agreement and to have climate adjustments in e.g. infrastructure with road and water and such things, because we see that the storm comes more often and more often and destroys for many millions of dollars. Then it is important to be able to do something about this in advance. SV has asked the government if money has been spent on this in the local economy, and the government has replied: No, not a penny. Therefore, I am disappointed that the Left has not supported the SV in these matters, and I ask: What is the reason why the Left believes that the municipalities should not take this climate responsibility and get support from state teams to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1002	The representative of Andersen is quite right that the climate is our most important thing in the future. There's no doubt about it. It is also important to look at the whole system of the VAR system for the new municipalities and the other municipalities, because these are important things. We have our own proposals in line with what SV has, but I share the representative's concerns about the climate challenges. Not least because of the constant natural disasters that we have, it is now important to have a fund building that also takes this into account. It has been recorded several times by the Left, but I do not disagree that this is something that must enter the new municipalities. Especially when you start looking at the VAR system in the new municipalities, this will be an important task.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1009	I note that the Left has not put any pressure on this in the municipal settlement, and I am very disappointed because the municipalities have a great responsibility, also to reduce the climate emissions. Another question I have to the Left concerns the conversion of the income system for county municipalities. It's true that there's a need to do that, but what the government has now done is that they've picked a little bit from a report here and a little bit from a report there. Nothing has been at the hearing of the local democracy that the Left is saying is so important to listen to, and that can determine things seagoing. Why does the Left believe that it was not right to hear those responsible for the whole and for the impact of the changes in the different cost keys? Because it's wrong, as the committee's chairman says, that the cost keys are just subjects. No, there is a lot of policy in the cost keys, because it has to do with how to weigh the different costs — for example: to high school, to county roads, to dental health — and how it affects the different county municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1018	Firstly, I would like to say that I agree with Andersen's representative that there are also policies in the cost keys. I think we can quickly agree on that. It has to do with the level of general and vocational education. There is, of course, some policy in it. There is also a policy of what is involved in distances within each state, and some states have greater challenges than other states. So far, so good. But the representative, Andersen, says that this has not been possible for the county councils to do anything about, even though it has been under work in many ways for a long time, even while her partners were in government. And when it came to the conclusion that maybe there was someone here who didn't want this to come up for debate, then this isn't unknown to the county councils. I think the argument about this is getting too thin, but I agree that part of this is that policy in it, there is no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1023	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1026	Today, the gallery and the press department should be filled, because municipal economy and municipal reform are issues that affect absolutely everyone in Norway. It's about one of the most important things we do as politicians. It's about parental care. It's about how the school is supposed to be. It's about whether we're going to have a child protection that can help kids and families when they need it. It's about whether there should be cultural provision in our communities, and it's about getting on the road and going the bus. I’m – and I’ve been for 17 years – just as surprised every time we discuss local economy, because it’s so little interest in it, and I think it’s sad. SV believes that for the important things, such as school, care for the elderly, child protection, climate and environmental responsibility, we need to use a greater proportion of social shocks — overall. It's because it's so important to people, because it creates good communities. It's also the most important infrastructure in business that we have good schools, that we have kindergartens, that we have roads and public transport that we can use. Quality costs. We know that. Therefore, SV is willing to use more of society’s total resources in the local economy and in these important areas. We also believe that prevention works. We believe that if we manage to have very good kindergartens, very good schools and good communities, then it has good ringing effects in society overall. We think it's important. Social work also seems to be capable of following up people who are struggling and having difficulties, and it's actually the responsibility of the municipalities to do the same. It costs a little bit of money, but it gives a lot of money, and it gives a lot to people who might not have that good life. We want to twist the money in society like that. Right, the Progress Party and the government want to turn the money in a completely different way. We saw that. It took them about three weeks to create a new budget, where they jammed together eight billion dollars – eight billion – largely to the richest people in this country. But now, after many months, we're sitting with the local economy, and then the local government's own organization tells us that there's a missing 850 million. SEK to, among others getting kindergartens enough for what I think all people now think is a natural thing. Before the election, these parties thought that they were going to be babysitting many times a year, and that the red-green government was too bad. But now it's not so dangerous that there's no money for the kindergartens that people and kids are entitled to. What the government and the majority are now putting forward is going to be a strain on the local economy. Therefore, SV doubles the bet on the municipal economy in relation to how the government rates. We believe that we can afford it, and we believe that it is much more important to spend the money on the care of the elderly and a good school than that those who have more than enough in the wallet will get even more to walk with. Some of the things that have been bad about this treatment are just talking about community reform and not about economics. Because it's the money that's most important. Whether the municipality is large or small, it's important that it has the economy to run with all these important things in a way that's good, so people are satisfied with it. The government has made a lot of computational mistakes, for example: in the case of pedigrees and kindergartens, which should have been corrected. In addition, there is now a tax failure, which looks great, and there is SV, like the Workers' Party and the Senter Party, that we should now say that we should compensate for it, because the municipalities have more tasks than they can handle with the money they have. Growth municipalities should be strengthened. We agree with that, but we believe that this money should not be taken from the other municipalities, but placed on the top of the frame. This is because it follows the same policy that the Progress Party and the Right have, that when the wealthiest need a little more, you have to take it from all the others who don't have that much money and give it to them. Then they say that they want changes in the income system for the municipal sector – those who have large tax revenues will retain more of the income itself. This weakens the distribution between municipalities. Then it won't be the same offer in the whole country. Then there are very different offers throughout the country. To strengthen the growth where it is means that it will be very difficult for those municipalities that are struggling. SV wants to strengthen kindergartens. We want to strengthen child protection. We want to strengthen the psychiatry. We want to strengthen health care. We're earmarking the money, because we have experience that if we don't, and that's too little money, it won't be any of it. We did this in several rounds when we were in government, and that did not happen until we earmarked the money, that the money went to what we said they should go to. We have to do that. There is also a way of financing these key areas of action, which means that the State cannot escape being involved. Climate is important. I have to say that I am quite shocked that the government and the municipal minister say that there is not a single penny added into the municipal economy to take care of the municipalities' climate responsibility after the climate agreement – nothing for climate adaptations, as we see is absolutely necessary. That is why SV is promoting proposals for bets on this. SV is dependent on the fact that municipalities that want to merge will do so. We think that the support schemes put on the table by the government are quite fine, but we disagree that they should have date stamping and end up. We're probably surprised that those who are now talking a lot about listening to local democracy, that it's the municipalities that know best, etc., that they don't think they should be able to figure this out. We're also very critical of what the government says and the majority say that municipalities are going to be large enough to do the tasks seam. It is SV in order to agree that they should – either sea or in cooperation with other municipalities. The fact that the same government is not concerned with the local authorities postponing competition or purchasing important services for the municipalities, and by splitting up the professional environments they are now using as an argument for the coercion of municipalities, we believe that it is very wrong. If you trust the municipalities, you have to trust the municipalities. If you want strong trade unions, you have to build strong trade unions. SV believes that some municipalities should definitely build up e.g. legal and technical competence together — own it and develop it — because if they hire such services, they sometimes meet the same lawyer on the other side of the table in the next negotiation. These are competences that the local government sector must have in place to meet its tasks and the interests of its citizens. New income system for county municipalities — yes, it is policy, it is. There is a need to change that, but SV strongly responds to the fact that the government has obviously not dared to send out at the hearing proposals that it is possible to discuss openly, democratically. This has been discussed for a long time, but no one has known about the government's arrangements before it came now. It's picked a little bit from an investigation here, a little bit from an investigation there and a little bit from the Statistical Central Bureau, and none of the county councils or KS, who were at our hearing, could explain how this turned out. I see the Council of State is nodding. He was not at the hearing of the Municipal Committee in Stortinget, I can inform you. So I don't think he heard what KS said at that hearing. This should have been presented, so that you could discuss the various changes and reach a political agreement whether it's right that it turns out like this or so. Of course, if you're moving money, you're moving money. We know that, too. But it is difficult, for example. for my home country, Hedmark, when you remove the cost key for boats and ferries, because it looks very negative in a state that does not have a single boat or ferry inside its structure. There are also many municipalities that question the impact of the change in the cost key for secondary schools. Everyone's talking about being preoccupied with non-response. Everyone is talking about the importance of building up the professional lines and strengthening them. But it might seem that this conversion that the government is doing now is weakening – at least it is doing so in Hedmark. It's a state that's now on its way up in implementation. It's going to be very difficult when they're going to lose 37 million. kr, to be able to keep up the good pressure you now have on completion in high school. It's important. It's much more important than the government having an idea of how to do this that doesn't fit reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1058	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1061	The discussion on municipal reform is not new. It also took place under the red-green. That was probably the most discussion. In a look-up at Nrk.no in the autumn of 2010, we got an example of the statements of the current representative of the big business Geir Ketil Hansen from SV. He answers correctly after the Workers' Party's Helga Pedersen has spoken, and the representative Andersen will not answer that. I just want to tell you, with reference to one of the previous contributions to Andersen, that Helga Pedersen says: «The communities will benefit from a more robust professional environment.» This year’s motto was already used in 2010. SV's representative Hansen said: ‘In the health sector in particular, municipalities have major recruitment problems and if these challenges are to be addressed, more municipalities need to join forces.’ Other SV politicians have been out saying similar things. The questions to Andersen's representative are: What are the advantages of the municipalities joining forces? What challenges does SV think Norwegian municipalities have that can defend the need to merge?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1076	I think the most important thing when municipalities are going to merge is that it's a natural unit, which people feel is a natural unit, like housing and working regions, for example. That's why maybe this argument is stronger around cities than across the country, where the municipalities are very large. Yes, we are concerned with robust professional environments. That's why we're opposed to competitive outsourcing. The right is strongly dependent on tendering or buying consulting services and not employing people. We believe that you should have strong professional environments, build them up, own your competence seams and run this well. This can be done either as a municipality or in cooperation with other municipalities. We think that's very important. We don't have anything against community associations. We're on the contrary positive for that to happen. We're positive with the instruments. What we're opposed to is that you now set an end date, you have a whip, and you don't put a bomb on competition, you think robust professional environments are important.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1081	I have to say first that SV gives the impression that when one strengthens the growth community initiative, it takes one from everyone else. It's a long practice. When SV a few years ago increased the big city bill with the other red-green ones, one also took from all other municipalities and financed it. What I'm going to ask you is that I'm going to register that the red-green ones are no longer some of the financial arrangements for the municipalities next year. It almost seems that there is competition for who should be most over the government. There won SV with a few million compared to the Center Party. The last SV had an impact on Norwegian policy and presented a municipal economic proposition, containing a lower rate of growth for municipalities when a deduction from spending on demography and pensions, than we estimate for the next year. My question is: why my SV that one for next year has to increase the frames by as much as one has done, while one did not mean the same for this year, when one had the opportunity to influence?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1090	First, to the growth municipality grant. It was like that before. We think the right thing is that it's put on top of it. Now there is a great need for an increase in the growth grant from the municipality. We are not against the fact that the municipalities that grow a lot should receive support for this. They should also be given a collective package, and perhaps a housing effort, as well as the local economy. We see that the distribution of the municipalities, which lose the population and are struggling with the problems, is very uneven and poor. That's why. In the case of municipal economy, SV has always been the party that has given priority to the municipality the highest. It's been all the years I've been sitting on the Stortinget. This is a matter for negotiation. What's the big difference in the arrangement we made last year, and what the government's putting in now, is that we paid the nursery bill. We didn't have an underfunding on public transport that was at the bottom. Only that sum is an entire billion, which this government has put forward and knows about. It's been pointed out. The government has admitted errors in the calculation, but you don't do anything about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1097	It's precisely in the municipal proposition we're within all of society's systems, models, regimes and boundaries in all fields. Something's ideological, and something's ad hoc. We're all working to achieve the fairest possible policy. One of the terms I hear is the word tax lighter, which is used when making changes in the tax system. It's expected that the opponent always calls it tax havens, as if it were bad. I have a question for the representative Andersen: doesn't SV mean that such system changes, such as reducing the tax, actually lead to increased contributions to the community?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1103	There's a lot of theories about it. I could say that SV is too tax-free, but we're too tax-free for those who earn too little – that's the difference. What the Christian People's Party now supports, and what the Christian People's Party was involved in, was that it allowed the great tax havens to go to the 100 richest men in this country – who have great fortunes – and it seems that SV is wrong. We believe that this money should also go to child protection, schools and better care for the elderly. This theory that just giving tax relief to the richest should kind of shake something down on the community and create a lot in society, has proved to be wrong everywhere it's used. So we believe that we're going to have a fair tax system where everyone is contributing according to ability, and that we're going to build a community after that. We don't think of paying taxes as something terrible, but on the contrary as a necessary and proper contribution. I think everyone who thinks about it sees that they get a lot left. We want to raise the quality of what they get back for this money, and we believe that the Christian People's Party should agree with SV in that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1115	It was a good defense for why municipalities should become more sustainable or, in order to use Andersen's own words, robust – what I argued for instead. But I want to follow up a little further on what Andersen said to me about the income system of the county councils. This has been well known in county municipalities for a long time. We are well aware – and this was also clarified in the debate – of the former Council of State of Liv Signe Navarsete's office for four years. It has been, of course, some frailty, but in general, it is in many ways the same as the previous government would obviously have presented. Then I am a little surprised that the resistance to special SV, and not least the centre party, is so great towards what is now being presented, because this was well known in many ways – not least for the representative Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1122	No, this was not well known. The arrangement that the government put forward now, with the cost keys lying there, was not known. It was not known in any of the county municipalities I have had contact with, or have contacted us at Stortinget during the handling of this matter. Clearly, these are difficult questions, so it should have been put to a hearing. Then we could have a debate on it, where we had discussed how the different cost keys would turn out, and got a political consensus on it. So maybe the Left and the Government and the Right had a different view than the SV of how these keys should be, because that's a political question. The fact that changes were needed is known, that there are some investigations known, but that you have picked a little from one and a little from the other and presented it as a whole – as if it were known – it is not correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1131	This surprises me. Before I entered the Stortinget, I was also in the county. We had then received clear signals that there would be a ‘degression’ when it came to county municipalities. This was cleared in many ways, and it was done. I was then quite surprised that Andersen's representative did not have any clarity about this, because it appeared in the media review, and also during the hearing it was found that several of the county councils that were there had prepared for this. So of course there might be some disagreement about the different keys, but basically this was in place. Then it is surprising that Andersen's representative is so tall and dark in connection with this, when she was aware of it in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1136	What was clear was that different changes were discussed, and it was quite clear that some county municipalities had to expect a reduction – yes, it was clear. But the composition of these keys, and how they pop out in the different county municipalities, was not clear. What SV is now saying and proposing is just one thing: that you put these keys on the ground and have a hearing on it, a thorough round, so that everyone can express themselves about it and understand what is happening. Then we can agree on a plan for how we mean the revenue and expenditure equalization in the county municipalities will be in the future. The composition of these criteria and the keys now presented has not been fully consulted. The county councils have not been given any prior opinion on this before the Stortinget will now make a decision on it. SV disagrees that it should be treated that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1143	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1146	The municipal proposition we are dealing with today, wasting the course for the next year and for the future Municipality of Norway. The municipalities are the foundation of our welfare society. From the time of the provinces, in the first half of the 1800s, the municipalities have provided for the well-being of their inhabitants. Today, municipalities are responsible for much of the most important well-being — from health care to infants, young people and the elderly to a strong social security network that captures those outside. Municipalities ensure that children get a good primary school and thus have the opportunity to fulfill their dreams. And the municipalities are important arenas for local democracy and commitment to the local environment. One of the government's main policy projects is to give greater freedom and power to individuals, families, organisations, communities and municipalities. Our policy is a policy of trust. We know that individuals and communities can make good decisions on matters that affect their own everyday life and future. We believe that society is being created and developed best from below. Therefore, the government will have less state detail management, more local space for action and stronger local democracy. We must preserve the good welfare communities in the future. Then we have to be willing to change today's municipal structure. The municipal map drawn by the Schei Committee 50 years ago is not adapted to the terrain and reality we live in today. The municipalities have been given a number of new, heavy tasks that require more capacity and more competence. We have a strong tradition of adding heavy welfare tasks to Municipality-Norway, both because we believe across party boundaries that local adaptation is important, and because the municipalities have been important welfare spies. But perhaps growth and government across the party boundaries have been better at giving municipalities new welfare tasks than at equipping them to carry the should – because it has become a heavier one. Since 1964, municipalities have been responsible for everything from the settlement of refugees, municipal doctors, fixed medical facilities, health centres and the provision of mental retardation services to national park administrators, preparedness for pollution and management of waste and waste. The municipalities must be best for those who need them the most. When children experience care failure, they must face a strong and secure child protection service. Today, many child protection services are too small and vulnerable. Our society is developing rapidly, and housing patterns are changing. Old boundaries based on past dues and parishes do not correspond to current regions of residence and work. Local authorities have greater challenges, but also more opportunities in the role of social planners. I am pleased and impressed that the Stortinget today is taking the first step in the reform of the municipality. It is a historic decision that is made. Today, we are laying the foundation for the future Municipality of Norway. I am pleased that there has been a broad consensus on key issues: the need for municipal reform, the goal of the reform, the start of the process in the autumn, the need for good local processes in which the municipalities themselves sit in the driver's seat, that we should not set absolute limits on the number of inhabitants and that we should have good economic instruments. There is also a broad consensus that there should be a firm commitment to three levels of government. That's what I'm dealing with. It might seem that there's a lot of disagreement in the rhetoric. In reality, there's a lot of consensus. For municipalities, it is these realities that are the important thing – not the rhetoric. On some points, there are different views between the cooperation parties and the Workers' Party. Nevertheless, it is not shadowing the fact that there is a broad majority who believe that there is a need for community reform and are positive for it to start in autumn 2014. The broad consensus provides a good starting point for the work starting in the municipalities. A robust local economy is a prerequisite for municipalities to further develop the welfare offer to their inhabitants. With the approach adopted today, municipalities are guaranteed a growth in free income of approximately the same level as the average over the period 2007 to 2013. After covering the costs of demography and retirement, there will still be between 1 billion. kr and 1.3 br. kr to further develop the welfare society, in reality a larger space of action in 2015 than in 2014. In addition to free revenues, we are strengthening municipalities in priority areas, with specific funding. This is a knowledge gap through a stronger focus on continuing education and on more support for the construction of nursing homes. We are in the process of lifting skills to improve the quality of care. Despite increased appropriations, there is still a need to prioritize and streamline municipal services, as has been the case in the last eight years. The Committee concludes that the growth of municipal income should ensure the development, enhance the quality of school and other welfare services and cover demography and pension costs. I believe that this is in line with what both the previous government and our government have founded. At the same time, it is important to stress that the local government sector also has a separate responsibility for pensions, as part of the pay and contract conditions. And it will always be that the community structure needs to adapt to the economic situation. Growth municipalities have long faced major challenges in investing in services as the population grows. Now we are providing a significant increase in the subsidy to municipalities in growth, which will ensure that citizens can get better services. The scheme becomes more predictable for municipalities by calculating the subsidy on the basis of growth and not on the basis of national growth. I am pleased that the bulk of the population today joins in the proposal for changes in the income system of the counties. Today’s system is based on cost keys from the 1990s. Out-of-date figures result in some counties being compensated for expenses they do not have. Other counties may not cover their expenses, including: for public transport. It's unfortunate that such bias gets fixed over time. We will provide a system that is fair and up-to-date and that balances actual costs, so that people across the country can get an equivalent service offer. The previous government announced changes for many years, but was unable to implement them. Now we're putting forward a new system that corrects biases and injustices. Some states have to change. I understand that it is demanding, but it has also been demanding for states that over the year have not been able to cover their actual expenses. We add up to a gradual phase-in of the effect of the new cost keys. Together with loss compensation, this will allow time for conversion. There won't be 20 years until the next time the cost keys are updated. It is important that the Storting takes responsibility and shows the way into the future. If we're going to achieve our goals of making the municipalities stronger and better, we can't sit still in the boat. If we want to take responsibility for sustainable social development and for good public services, even for future generations, we must be willing to make changes. Many rapporteurs and local politicians from all parties have taken leadership responsibility. The decisions we are making today will have the greatest impact on our children and on future generations. We should bring along some thought-provoking words from three young girls who were interviewed on the street in Lillesand on 20 May. They describe the challenges of today's municipal structure. They do not at least have a good description of what is important for local identity and belonging. I'd rather be a part of Kristiansand, it's a bigger city with more possibilities, says Sunniva Isaksen of 16. Emily and Sandra agree. I'd rather go to school in Kristiansand, but I wasn't allowed, because it's in another state," says Sunniva Isaksen. Even though we become part of Kristiansand, we'll still be in Lillesand, because Lillesand is Lillesand, anyway, the girls say. Of course, I am not going to say anything about the choices to be made by the municipalities in Sørlanden, but the girls say something important, namely that the old municipal and county boundaries are not adapted to today's needs, and that the local identity is not determined by the municipal boundaries. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for the good work that the Committee has done. I look forward to good cooperation with all parties in Stortinget in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1195	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1198	Erna Solberg has become Prime Minister. It's been years since she was a municipal minister. There is no doubt, however, that she has put her very clear and recognizable stamp on the local economy, as it is now presented by the government. I notice that it has begun to establish a new pattern in the government's thinking, namely that when the municipalities received too much money for the kindergartens in 2012, it will defend that the municipalities will have to meet the demand for places that the government will not compensate for this year and next year. I have also noticed that the committee leader, from the Progress Party, says that once the municipalities have retained the tax revenue through good years, when the revenue increased, it defends that they will not receive compensation when the revenue goes down. Then my question is: does the Minister of State agree that systems and technical principles should be defended, rather than financing the care of the elderly and the school?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1207	I am concerned that we should enable municipalities to finance care for the elderly and schools, to strengthen the quality, competence and capacity of these important welfare services. We're going to fix that. I notice that the representative Helga Pedersen is more concerned about seeing eight years back in time. I'm busy looking eight years ahead in time. We are going to provide robust municipal facilities, which will enable municipalities to expand and secure good services for their inhabitants. It would be quite new if the Storing in the revised national budget were to compensate for the decline in tax revenue. What we see for 2014 – in the figures we have used in the revised national budget – is on the contrary that the 2014 space for action will be about the same as that seen in the budget when it was dealt with before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1217	It's actually the very near future we're discussing – and what happens if the tax revenue is reduced beyond what the government has estimated. I think the answer from the municipal minister is incredibly defensive. The Minister of Local Affairs is actually in a very happy situation. He is in government with a finance minister who has been very clear since 2004 that when the tax revenues of municipalities go down, they should be compensated. The probability is very great that the Minister of Finance, if the Minister of State says, can I get money to give the municipalities compensation?, that is, yes, be so good, here you have them. Will the Minister of State ask the Minister of Finance for the money?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1224	I first of all record that the Workers' Party places a completely different standard on its own in opposition to what the Workers' Party did in position. The Workers' Party in position would never take the position that the Workers' Party is now taking in opposition during the treatment of the Municipal Proposition or the revision of the National Budget. What we saw when we dealt with the revised national budget was that the municipalities would come in about the same way this year as it looked when we dealt with the budget. So let's just think about it. We insist on the principle that municipalities retain increased tax revenues. But then it is also natural not to be compensated for a fall in tax revenue. That's what it's been like before, and that's how it's going to be now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1231	In the UK, the need to strengthen the position of professionals is often hotly discussed. In the new government proposal, the cost growth of applicants in the high-cost education programme – now called the key – has been greatly reduced. Does the Council of State mean that the reduction in the weighting of such important vocational education and training programmes is in line with the aim of strengthening vocational education and training? What does the Council of State think this would mean for the state to prioritize a professional profession?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1238	There shall be nothing to say about the priorities of the counties for vocational training, because the differences in costs between the general and vocational courses are captured. The reality is that the cost keys that have been used were established before the Knowledge promise was made, and it is quite natural that when 10-20 years have passed – it should not be long – the cost keys should also be updated so that they are adapted to the reality of the day, and that is what has been done in this area. But let me also add that the government has an active policy to strengthen the professions. We believe it is absolutely essential that we have good Norwegian skilled workers in the years to come, and that is why we are going to carry out a lift for the professions. We already started it in the 2014 budget, and we're going to continue in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1245	Representatives of the majority parties Right, Advance Party, Christian People's Party and Left have sent out a press release that tells of a system of holiday-reliefs over 40 years for county roads, which is now in place after the submission of the vote on the municipal bill. There is a proposal from the Centre Party and SV in the vote, which the Workers' Party has now announced that they will support, but which these majority parties do not support. On the other hand, they have a note that the government is asked to consider a system of holiday-relieving agents. This is incredibly important for the states to have clarity in before they now start their budgetary process for next year. Can the Council of State confirm that the Government of the 2015 budget will submit to the county roads a system of holiday-relief funds over 40 years?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1254	If the representative of the Greni and the Center Party had been so concerned with predictability of the county municipality in this area, the centre party could have done something about it in the last eight years. I don't think it's particularly impressive that a party that has just left the government offices is so offensive at such a point. It had been possible to implement it in the eight years of government. We've got a mission from the majority parties in Stortinget, and we're going to take that assignment seriously. They've asked us to evaluate such a scheme, and we're going to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1261	I don't think there's any big point in asking the Council of State why he doesn't give more priority to the municipal sector as a whole, which SV believes should be done to get the good municipal sector that the Council of State is talking about. Of course, some of the things that are needed to be good are good professional environments, competent people and enough capacity. It is used as an argument for a municipal reform that one must join forces to become large enough. Can the Council of State provide any clear evidence that large municipalities always have enough professionals and always do the task better than smaller municipalities? And: Does the Swedish Government agree with the Swedish Government that if you are going to build large professional environments, you can't split them up by outsourcing the same professional environments? This will prevent the ownership of maritime competence in the municipal sector, and thus disintegrating what the government now believes there is a need to bring together in order to increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1268	Let me start with the money question first. I'm very concerned that we're going to have an honest and open dialogue about the local economy. The arrangement we have put forward is robust. It will contribute to a greater room for action for municipalities to the next year than it is this year. But there is no doubt that the municipalities of the next year are going to experience the same thing they did every year while SV put in government, that it is crowded. So we're going to be honest. It is possible for municipalities to contribute to the further development of services, but there will still be a need for priorities and more efficient local authorities. In terms of competence environments, I am very happy that SV is concerned about it. That's also how I know SV, as a party that is engaged in good public services and competent environments. My point is not that the professionals who work in a small municipality are not as good as those who work in a large municipality. My point is that the environment is vulnerable. If you have two professionals in child protection and one gets sick, the kids have to pay the price when the environments get so vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1275	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1278	I noticed that the Council of State was concerned that we were going to talk honestly about the local economy. I also noticed that several of the representatives of the government parties have now been concerned about how good this municipal structure is in fact, and use KS as a truth witness about how difficult it was under the red-green government. I just want to point out that the head of the KS, Gunn Marit Helgesen – from the Right – was already out on 14 May and was clear that the financial arrangement for 2015 to which the government refers is too desperate to meet the expectations of the government. It also has to be taken over by the Council of State when he is concerned about being honest. There has been a very interesting debate so far, which has covered both the municipal economy and the municipal reform. The parties to the Government have been clear, and on repeated occasions the Council of State has been out and occupied by, that there should be a broad majority behind a reform, and it is described in broad order today. But now we see that already a week after you were there and demonstrated this consensus, it cracks. At the hearing, a proposal for a legislative change to put municipalities under state administration – which we choose to formulate – has been sent out by approving the borrowings. In the letter of consultation, the Council of State writes: ‘In order to achieve the objectives of the municipal reform, it may be important to avoid investments and location in the coming years bridging up which breakdown changes are perceived locally as current.’ I am pleased that the Left agrees with the Workers' Party that this does not clearly appear to be a good idea. This is not to have confidence in the judgements of local politicians; it is not to have confidence that local politicians are able to make wise decisions that will affect their citizens, whether they will be in their own municipality or join their neighbours in the future. I am very pleased that the Left has now announced that it is not possible to support it at this stage. When this is an essential component of the municipal reform presented – a community reform that is not based on voluntary and local initiatives, but on a state initiative and a series of coercive measures – the broad consensus thus breaks down. There will be a reform that will be trodden through by a scarcely majority if you do not take in the signals that are coming, and engage in dialogue on how we can achieve a reform that is actually based on what citizens and local politicians think is right and good solutions for their communities in the future. The county cost keys are up to revision, and we all agree that there is a need for it. They have not been revised since the 1990s. The government's been busy. In fact, they have been so busy presenting new cost keys that they are not finished with the cost keys until they submit them to the Stortinget. The government itself warns that they must come back to the state budget in order to be finished. During the consultations we have had on the municipal bill, several county councils have been quite clear that they have not been involved in the work on cost keys. It is not only about the possibility of discussing the proposals and making recordings, but also about the fact that there has been a very limited opportunity to gain insight into the background material and analyses. I am fully aware that this is a demanding and difficult field to get an overview of, while there is considerable uncertainty about the basis on which the proposal – which is not finished – is based. I think one should be very careful with the claim that many have now made, and also made from this pulpit, that the county councils knew what was coming. This was also stated during the hearing, and the councillor who was part of the delegation from Sogn and Fjordane was very clear in his reply to the representatives of the government parties who made that claim, that no, they did not know that. Yes, it was known that there were some skepticism. It was known that because the tasks had changed, and because the size of the county municipalities had changed, it would mean some changes. You also had an idea how it might turn out. But no one knew what the government was going to suggest. You have to take that into account, because if the reasoning were to keep going, you should have done it, and the county councils would have done it. It would be in a negative sense for those who had to save. But then also those county councils who knew that this would mean significant increases in income must have budgeted for something they did not have coverage for. Finally, to the claim that the red-green government put this in the drawer: No, we worked quite hard on this, but the reason why we did not put it before the Storting was the criticism – that this is a difficult area, that it is a weak data base, and that there is great uncertainty at the basis on which the proposal is based.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1298	I will start by addressing the proposals in case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox I will continue to give tribute to the Left to put the county council's role on the agenda, and in particular the need to look at the middle level of Norwegian administration. It is not only about going from today's number of counties to fewer counties, but also about the tasks of the regional state. We are in a constitutional year, and it may be worth recalling that we are in Norway's National Assembly, and during the day we will make historical decisions that will help draw the new map and the basis for what is to be a democracy reform and a municipal reform. My tippippold mother grew up and lived in a region – not in a nation state and not in a kingdom. It's a good thing to look at the story when we're in a constitutional year. Today’s Norway appears as a culturally relatively homogeneous, administratively centralised and modern unitary country with a significant centre in the capital Oslo. But in 1814, during the long association period with Denmark, there was no independent Norwegian state. The Norwegian territory was ruled as a handful of regions from the City of the King, Copenhagen, which was then a center of the Oldenburg state, extending from Finnmark to Elben with holdings in four parts of the world. The Kingdom of Norway arose at the time of the gathering of the Norwegian parts of the Middle Ages and became the national state of Norway, which was formed in Eidsvoll in 1814. Today’s centralised nation is a result of 200 years of intensive nation construction, but still has its regional characteristics. In 1814, there were very different impacts on the Norwegian regions. Before 1814, the regions – the founding offices – were the primary administrative, economic and cultural units. Each region acted as an administrative, economic, social and culturally integrated entity in relation to Copenhagen, to the other regions of Norway and to the cities and regions of the world that were in contact with it. It was Akershus stiftamt, Christiansand stiftamt, Bergen stiftamt, and Trondhjem stiftamt. After 1814, we lost the regions as a unit, and then the regional capitals gradually changed their meaning. This was the case for all the Norwegian regions except one: Christiania was lifted to the national centre, and there was a large-scale centralisation. During the night until 17 May in 1814 was through notes – they also wrote notes at the time – Bergenhus, Akershus etc. is changed from one region to another to the Kingdom of Norway — not as a geographical area with regions, but as a whole. As a result, Norway was converted from a collection of provinces to become one Kingdom – one nation – with Sweden. Well! – today, a municipal reform is to be carried out, ensuring that the necessary decisions are taken during the period. I'm going to talk about the majority of the committee. I expect that the minority in case no. 2 will explain its assessments and positions, but the majority of the Committee on this matter has pointed out that it is important that the municipal reform be carried out according to the planned timetable, so as to ensure an equivalent welfare offer in all parts of the country and meet the challenges in urban areas. The reform must also facilitate the provision to citizens of services that are good, accessible and, not least, tailored to the needs of the individual in the future. The majority believe it is important to ensure a solid local democracy that can safeguard and develop this well-being and secure value creation and well-being. To do this, we need strong municipalities. Local democracy has been weakened by increasingly state-level detailed governance, and we believe that there is a need to change this development. Fewer and larger municipalities implementing a welfare policy according to national targets will reduce the need for state detail management. In parallel with this, the majority believe that it is important for municipalities to be given predictability of the types of tasks to be managed by the new municipalities. Therefore, as requested by the proposers, it is appropriate to clarify which tasks should be at what level – both the municipality level, the intermediate level and the state level. In the past, prior to the so-called regional reform, major investigations have been carried out in this field, which will also serve as the basis for such work, as proposed in this case. There are challenges in strengthening local democracy. In particular, it concerns the small, transparent division of tasks at non-political level, and it concerns the regional state. Different regional breakdowns hamper the work of both local and regional politicians. This is due, inter alia, to: that state agencies often have a regional breakdown that does not correspond to their own counties, that they need to cooperate with several counties, and that regional offices are often located outside their own county. This has been shown to weaken personal relationships, to make assessments on a different basis, to weaken the local skills of the administrators, and to reduce the focus on societal considerations. Sectoral arguments win over coordination arguments, the acquisition of knowledge base from the agencies has become more complicated and interaction has become more resource-intensive. The municipal reform must be implemented according to the planned timetable, and the majority support the government's desire to strengthen local democracy and provide better services to its citizens through more robust municipalities. In parallel with the community reform, studies on the intermediate level need to be reviewed and collated, and these need to be seen in the context of the reform. The review of the tasks of the municipality must also include the tasks to be assigned to a nationally elected level, intermediate level or an area that we may call fewer county municipalities. The majority are positive to counties who themselves take the initiative to merge into larger regions. I have taken up the proposal. I would like to stress that members of the Right Party and the Advance Party have also shown their primary position in relation to a two-tier model without an intermediate level. It has been our primary position all along, both in the election campaign and in the discussions that were against the government basis. We believe that the tasks of the county municipality can be entrusted mainly to the municipalities, to larger municipalities, and that a municipal reform in this way will facilitate a greater diversity of communities with more opportunities, greater responsibilities and new tasks. We see that there is no majority for this, but we see that establishing fewer county municipalities is closer to the primary position we have had as a starting point. The majority also suggest that the Stortinget has recently assessed the issue of regional reform and has had large processes and investigations associated with it. It was last done in the context of the regional reform that came after St.meld. No 12 for 2006-2007, Regional advantage – regional future. These members also refer to the Stoltenberg II Government which summarised the regional reform as follows: ‘The take-offs are not consistent in such a way as to provide a basis for changing county limits on a voluntary basis. Thus, the government does not see that there is a basis for taking the initiative to change the county division.’ I hope that the opposition now sees the possibilities that lie in getting a full review parallel to both municipal, county and state level. The government wants strong and robust municipalities, which can get more tasks and more responsibility. Willingness gives you the best solutions. Now it is important that municipalities together see how they can ensure good services for the citizens in the future. It's good and great with local initiatives where you also think untraditionally across county borders. Communes with common challenges and needs can become stronger together. That is how we can strengthen local democracy and give local elected representatives greater power and responsibility. The municipalities are the foundation wall of Norwegian democracy. It's going to be right-wing strength. By shifting power and responsibility there, we do. Most people thus gain more influence over their everyday lives and their own local environment. We all live in a municipality, and that's who is responsible for the most basic welfare services, such as school, health care, water and sewage, just to mention some of the most central tasks. The services of the municipality should be the most useful for those who need it the most. What does it mean to be a municipality? What tasks should characterise being a municipality? These are answers that the government will finally return to in 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1334	The historical project of the Workers' Party has always been about creating more freedom for individuals. No one has said the finer thing than Tage Erlander, who said that social democracy's task is to build dance floors where people can dance their lives. We believe that we best build the dance floors together, when everyone contributes, that we lift better in flock and that everyone gets better when no one is left out. Politics is about prioritizing. Over eight years with the red-green government, we prioritised the big money on the big problems. We strengthened the community economy because it is in the municipalities people live their lives, because we believe that welfare for all is more important than tax cuts for the few. Now we see the beginning of a new course. The right-hand side has chosen to spend the big money on tax cuts. This year, twice as much is spent on tax cuts, as will be given to municipalities next year in increasing free income. It is an honest priority, but there is reason to warn against the consequences of the blue-blue policy. I remember very well when Erna Solberg was a municipal minister. I was 19 years old, an idealist and impatient in my mission to save the world. In this way, I chose to make elections to the local government in the municipality of Nord-Aurdal. The commitment and the joy of being a newly elected populist country rather quickly, because the municipalities were starving. For the government had chosen billions of dollars in tax cuts for those who had the most from before. It was in the municipalities we sat again and had to cut to schools and kindergartens. There were older people, students and kindergarten children who were left with the bill for the tax cuts. Now Erna Solberg is back, as Prime Minister, and once again we see that tax cuts mean welfare cuts. The municipalities will be underfunded next year. Many municipalities now need to put their brakes on and cut down on the welfare offer. While kindergarten queues increase and parents have to wait longer for kindergarten, the government sends a heavy, unpaid childcare bill to the municipalities. The Barnhage Town Council in Bergen, Harald Victor Hove from the Right, said well, when the government took the kindergartens from Bergen: ‘That’s not what we meant by ‘new ideas, better solutions’.’ No, but that's what we warned against in the election campaign. The right said it was scare propaganda. Now we see that we were right. For the first time in 10 years, municipalities are experiencing a tax failure. But instead of compensating the municipalities for lost income, the government chooses to give priority to dutyfree and suspension engines. There is something serious wrong with the priorities of this government. We in the Workers' Party agree that changes in the municipal structure are desirable. But with a tight municipal structure next year, in combination with quite strong elements of coercion, we believe that you have a poor starting point. The government is very good at using nice words. They talk about trust in local democracy and democratic reform. But when it comes to practical politics, they don't follow up. The words about trust fall on stone floor when municipalities in the next few years have to apply to the state for permission to borrow to build schools and hospitals, and not enough with it – you also have to apply for a place to build. Words such as ‘freedom’ are totally out of content when small municipalities that do not fully find the tone of the neighbouring municipality can expect punishment by changing the income system and when those municipalities that do not merge now expect merged municipalities to sneak in front of them in the NTP queue. I think there are a lot of people in Municipality-Norway who may be a little familiar with what we often say at home in Valdres: "You can lure a Valdres, but age is faithful." My good advice to the Council of State, which is not here right now, but as I hope to hear it later, is to drop the coercive elements and strengthen the economic carrots. The need for it was confirmed in a study NRK did earlier this week in Oppland and Hedmark. Only 9 out of 48 inland rapporteurs believe it is likely that a merger will be agreed before the deadline expires. More time is needed, more economic incentives are needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1358	I would first like to thank the chairman of the committee for his steady leadership in the committee and the Committee for a good and constructive tone. The municipal proposal presented on 14 May is one of the largest and most comprehensive municipal reforms that have been presented to the Stortinget in many decades. That is why this is a historic day in many ways. This government has created an offensive and forward-looking debate on what kind of municipalities and intermediate levels we are going to have in the future. The objectives of the community reform are good and equivalent services for the inhabitants, holistic and co-ordinated societal development, resilient and economically robust municipalities and strengthened local democracy. The measures already in place, with modernisation and increased freedom of choice for the inhabitants, are for example: eradicating work time thieves, simplifying legislation, digitising administration and public services, better governance and management management leadership and a new dispute resolution system. All of this will contribute to creating a completely different public sector than what we have today. In the case of the county economy, county councils increase between a quarter and a half of a billion dollars in free income. Of this, 150 million is. the grounds for upgrading the county roads. It's also set at 225 million. kr to a compensation scheme in connection with the conversion of the income system of counties. The conversion of new income systems for county municipalities has been warned several times by the red-green government, most recently in the state budget for 2014. Today's criterion is more than 20 years old, and they are obsolete in most areas. Technical evaluations have been carried out to develop new cost keys for cost-balancing between county municipalities. The effect is a significant redistribution, and the government thinks there is a need to have a five-year horizon of gradual introduction. This is very demanding for many county councils. I am therefore pleased that one suggested increasing the loss compensation for county municipalities to 125 million. kr. For our county, the total reduction will be between 225 million. SEK 230 and SEK 230 million. after five years. This is approx. 10 pst. of today's budget, and it goes without saying that this is both dramatic and demanding. It is therefore very regrettable that the previous red-green governments have not done anything to correct the old injustices, and instead have left this scouring and walking for so long that it has such dramatic consequences. In a debate on NRK Sogn and Fjordane on 12 June, I got the answer as to why the previous governments have not done anything about this combustible matter, which was in the drawer of the then municipal and regional minister Liv Signe Navarsete. The representative of the Stortinget and the chairman of the fjord Sogn in Fjordane, Jenny Følling, said straight away that the red-green parties would not take the political consequences of setting up a new income system for the county municipalities. This is a disclaimer of the worst variety, and it means in clear terms that the previous red-green governments have failed in a difficult case, making the situation of the county councils that are currently on the loss side, very demanding and challenging. And here I ask the representative Karin Andersen and others from the red-green parties to follow: In Sogn and Fjordane, the councillor briefed the council on the consequences of the new income system in the county municipality in 2010 and 2011 and warned about conversion measures. He showed, among other things: in order for the conversion to be aimed at adapting the municipal activity to the reduction in the financial framework he knew to come as a result of a new income system. Furthermore, he showed that the new income system would lead to economic challenges for our county municipality, with a background to the good distribution we get in today's income system on the trade key. This has not been up-to-date since 1990, and he looks very favorable to our county council – showed the county councillor. Already then, it was shown that the reduction in transfers under a new income system could be as large as 250 million. kr. Both the red-green plural in Sogn and the Fjordane county council and two red-green governments have feia this under the carpet, and now we see the consequences of it, among other things. in my home country. I am very pleased that the Government Party and the Cooperation Party are raising the issue of holiday-resolution agents for the county roads. Today, for national road ferries, a system of ferries release means for bridge/tunnel projects is in place. This arrangement is 30 years old, and the government's goal is to increase to 40 years. Now, the government party and the cooperative party have asked the government to assess the same system of supplementary road links within the income system, corresponding to national road ferries, and I expect this to be followed up by the government in a good way. When it comes to another theme, I'll come back to it in later articles.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1388	In the Sundvolden Declaration, the government has announced a comprehensive municipal reform, but there are a number of ambiguities and assumptions that the Municipality of Norway has not yet been clarified through the government's municipal proposal, which we are dealing with here today. One of the main weaknesses is that the government is now giving marshallers to the municipalities to discuss their tasks and look for municipalities to join, without knowing what the new tasks are really going to be. The fact that the government parties have not clarified this in advance is, in my view, poor political craftsmanship and not suitable for a clear debate on the subject. That being said, the Workers' Party, both centrally and locally, is very concerned about how we solve our welfare tasks, and we are confident that the Workers' Party's representatives in the city and municipality governments around the country will participate in and address the challenge in an excellent way in their communities. What is not quite so excellent is the whip-and-trap device that the government is putting up with in the municipal reform. The municipalities that do not adhere strictly to the government's timetable or take decisions that the government wants are in danger of losing both reform support and means of conversion. It is even said by the government that the non-comparisoning municipalities could have difficulties in being prioritised in the treatment and priorities of the national transport plan. This is an untimely press and whip policy towards the municipalities and a policy that the Workers' Party cannot support. It is a policy that will not ensure that local discussions become the good local policy process that everyone says they want. Adding to extensive changes in Municipality-Norway with tight schedule and strong elements of threats and coercion is not a good starting point. The Labour Party has confidence in local democracy and that the sense and reason are fairly equally distributed around the country's city and municipality governments. The same cannot be said of the parties of government, which despite their beautiful statements of trust in local democracy and their various statements that they trust local wisdom, nevertheless see it as imperative to put all the municipalities of the country under administration. When the government now has a majority to place all municipalities under the supervision of the State as soon as they have to borrow some sum for necessary investments in school and health, it does not testify to the particular confidence of our local city and local government representatives. And as if not enough, the government will also override the location of e.g. nursing homes, schools and kindergartens, and with this government is providing stronger leadership in municipalities than those currently in the ROBEK system. We read the following from the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs: ‘The requirement of state approval shall prevent loans, investments or localisations from creating a local disagreement between municipalities which may be candidates for merger.» In the Workers' Party, we have confidence that our local politicians see the best of their community, and that it is therefore completely unnecessary to intervene in local democracy, as the government is now doing. How such action should now lead to less bureaucracy and more democracy can only be wondered about. The Labour Party believes that there is a need for changes in the municipal structure, and where geographical and social considerations concern the changing of municipal boundaries or the merging of municipalities, we believe that the State should positively stimulate it. The Labour Party also believes that individual municipalities should not be able to stop changes that are appropriate for regional reasons – we have repeated this on several occasions. But our starting point is clear: changes in the municipal structure should normally be based on local desires and real volunteering. The differences between the government parties and the Workers' Party in this matter are clear – there is a sharp political distinction between the Government Party's threat-and-pisk reform, set up against the Workers' Party's voluntary line. Finally, I refer to the proposals that the Workers' Party is behind and are part of. These proposals give a completely different direction to the local reform than the one that the majority in this House now stands for, and clearly show the political differences between the Workers' Party and the Government. Now I see that there is a red lamp here, and I guess it does for the trust of our local politicians, with the government's proposals for community reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1428	The land is built from below. Our communities are one of the best in our country. The right considers that local communities should have greater freedom to decide on matters relating to themselves, whether in the field of education or housing. This is when you get the best solutions for each community and for each individual citizen. Strengthening local democracy is therefore an important task for the Right Party government, and we show that on a case-by-case basis. We're becoming more and more inhabitants. By 2020, Oslo will pass 700,000 inhabitants. The mountain will pass 300,000 inhabitants in 2024, and the same year Trondheim reaches 200,000 inhabitants. This trend is going to continue in this century, and the probability of growth being greater than the forecast is high. What does this mean for our country? There is no doubt that this growth will require robust municipalities, there is no doubt that much of the growth will come in and around the big cities, there is no doubt that municipalities will have to deliver more tasks – but there is no doubt that we as a nation, through strong and robust municipalities, can solve this task. But then we have to start now. It is almost 50 years since the previous municipal reform, and when I hear the debate today, it may seem that the centre party in particular can wait another 50 years, but we do not have time for that. Population growth will require a construction wave – not only do we need to build simpler and faster, but overall land planning is also crucial if we are not to be in line and have people standing outside the housing market all the time. Municipalities around the major cities should consider joining forces with each other or with the major cities in order to further synchronise housing, road and industrial development. There are also good reasons why small municipalities in the districts should join forces. I am burning for growing-up conditions and therefore also child protection. The expert committee report shows that municipalities with fewer than 500 inhabitants have an average of 2.4 child protection posts, while it is recommended that they have a minimum of five. There are 100 municipalities with fewer than five children's protection employees and who have not established any form of cooperation. That is what this community reform and merger is all about. Furthermore, I have recorded that the former red-green comrades are still trying to scare the population that the bulk of the population today is presenting a coercive solution. It is wrong – I stress that it is completely wrong and a little constructive line to put on. Disoriented as the red-greens are after driving the country through state override for eight years, they no longer see the needs of communities around the country. The community merger has already forced itself forward, but not from top to bottom, as the red-greens believe, but from bottom to top. It is up to the citizens and their right to the quality of services that bundling will now force itself. It's actually that out in society, the discussion is no longer about whether we're going to have a reform, but how. Today's industry presented earlier this year a survey among the country's rapporteurs. It showed that the entire 31 pst. of the municipalities – that is, before we get to where we are today – are engaged in a dialogue on how they can merge. Finally, I think it's in place to ask the red-green sync with the digital everyday life. One argument we still hear is that for many municipalities a merger will mean that the distance to the municipality hall is increasing significantly, and that one cannot take and feel at the town hall will create a big hole in the service offer. Well, in our digital everyday life and not least in the future, the distance to the keyboard will be far more important than the distance to the town hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1451	One of the most used words in this room is trust. I trust you, President, and I trust the Council of States. I hope there's a common trust between us. Trust is used in descriptions of how municipalities should spend their money. When you give more, so-called free money over the frame, you say that you trust that the municipalities will use them on, for example. psychiatry. Trust is one of the most used words from the election campaign to now, used about all reforms. Trust is a bit diffuse, but I still struggle, even if it is diffuse, to make it stick with detail control. Would it be smaller, or would it be more? For me, it is detailed management when it comes to refusing the municipalities to raise loans, which have been assessed by trade union economists in the municipalities, who have been through a trade committee and finally within the local government or the city council. It doesn't sound like less state detail management to me. It doesn't sound like trust in the municipalities. It is not based on trust between the municipality and the state, and it does not give us a basic belief that this reform shows confidence that local politicians know what is best for their citizens. Let me take an example: from 2015 to 2017, the municipality of Trondheim will invest for 3 billion. kr – approximately 3,12 brd. kr. Former rapporteur's candidate for the Right in Trondheim is also sitting here and expressing the strong need for trust in local democracy. He was also eager to spend the money the way he and his group thought the money should be spent wisely. That the Right wants to put Municipality Norway on the ROBEK list, even if you have good governance, means that one in Trondheim can have the construction of school buildings exposed to 3,000 students. As a result, 13 kindergartens, over 1,000 kindergartens, can be built in Trondheim. We know that in the case of ordinary municipal guarantees, the countyers use from two to three months to approve a municipal guarantee for a football field. I discussed this with the Advance Party in the election campaign, and I fully agreed with them that we needed a red tape, that we needed to give more power to the municipalities, and that we needed to look at what the County Council's tasks are. I didn't suppose he would gain more power over my home municipality, over the south, that he would take power away from local people, who want to give priority to school, kindergarten and the elderly. And when we're talking about the elderly: 250 sorely needed hospitals for demented people, for people with drug problems, for people with mental disorders, for people who are so weak that they're struggling to take care of themselves, this government is going to wait. Why? Yes, because you've mistrusted the municipalities. There must be a distrust of Trude Drevland in Bergen, a mistrust of the City Council in Bergen, who has now become a minority bureau. The City Council of Bergen itself says that they believe the government's proposal that all borrowings in the municipalities should be approved by the County Council is contrary to the principle of local self-government. And it's not the first time this government is resisting from its own. This is a reform that inspires distrust of the municipalities, which inspires distrust between the municipality and the state. It's not a reform that facilitates school, kindergarten, the elderly, the ones we're for, the ones we're going to stand on this pulpit every day or sit in this hall and do our best to help.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1464	The City Council in Bergen – now consisting of the Right Party and the Advance Party – until last night also the Christian People's Party – is as I was in the line-up, very disappointed by the government's big city policy. I'm a little surprised by the answer I got from the lead leader from the Right, and he had so little knowledge of the challenges that the Right has in Bergen. That is why I want to take the opportunity to repeat some of what I was in the first place. While we are sitting in this room, the Bergen City Council is also sitting together and is going to deal with its position on the budget, revised this year, but also for next year. The attitude of the City Council is quite clear – they want to actively work towards the central authorities and KS to get back some of their room of action. It's serious, and it amazes me that you haven't heard this – more mountaineering now don't be so small. The school agency Harald Victor Hove believes that for many years, and most recently recently, I have addressed the challenges of underfunding kindergartens. They are amazed that, in the municipal and revised national budgets, increased cash support for one-year-olds continues to lead to a smaller need for childcare facilities. But that doesn't apply in Bergen. There are 64 more applicants this year than before, and the undercoverage is a major financial challenge for the municipality. The cut's at $19 million. kr for 2014. In the revised version, they have also gained less leeway. They've estimated from 130 million. NOK 160 million. kr in relation to the reduction of free resources. Pension expenditure is increasing, and so is the debt. And Bergen has a maintenance run of over 5 billion. kr. So they have a hole of over 470 million. kr that they have to cover in relation to the plans they had for 2015. There's also talk of reintroducing property taxes, which is really the biggest single thing the Progress Party has been through, at least symbolically, over the ten years they've been through. But it'll only be 200 million. NOK 470 million. kr which is the difference. The government has also signaled that they will remove the municipal co-financing of the Cooperation Reform. There is an imbalance between municipal health services and specialist health services. I thought that the Right was a supporter of using financial incentives to correct that imbalance. The following research also shows that there were some weaknesses. Why not wait for the proposals they had, rather than removing it without being clear how they would replace it further? So until the lack of confidence in the municipality, which was also the subject of the previous speeches, in demanding, in the case of Hordaland, that Sponheim should enter and approve large borrowings. I don't think it will be particularly popular for the mountains – he's not very popular from before – and then it's often seen in connection with the Workers' Party's over-management. But this is worse than the regime you've had before. But Bergen is also hit by restrictions in the county municipality. For the county has two large areas. It's transportation, and it's high school. Transport has been given priority — especially roads, less on public transport. The mountains with their climate challenges, the dense city, depend entirely on meeting the collective challenges, and county budgets are crucial. But maybe even more challenging are the high schools. It is a little special that the Right, together with its comrades, has entered and taken a symbolic step in reducing the protection of the Working Environment Act, believing that two years of probation will lead to more young people entering the labour market. The representative Njåstad and I come from the county council, and we know that some of the most important things for these very young people, who have a poor foundation initially, are extra support for theoretical knowledge education, so that they can complete the theory, have the opportunity to enter into apprenticeship contracts and thus be able to stand freely further in terms of entering into the labour market. For me, it is precisely in such matters that I feel that there are great differences between the Workers' Party and part of the other parties. Because we have to be able to prioritize what matters most, and especially perhaps for the weakest in society, those who really need the help of the big community.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1485	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1488	The government strengthens two important areas for children, young people and those who really need it in the municipalities, by 400 million. Health centre tasks and assistance to those with drug problems and mental health problems. 200 million. SEK for the strengthening of health and school health services is in addition to the continuation of the SEK 180 million. kr included in the year’s budget. The funds are not earmarked for health oyster positions. That's a good reason. At present, health station services are different in size in municipalities. Health nurses are an important player, but many municipalities need to strengthen other health care-related staff, such as midwives, physiotherapists, psychologists and also health care professionals. The funds are dedicated to health and distributed to municipalities according to residents aged 0 to 19. The government gives municipalities confidence and local freedom of action to build comprehensive interdisciplinary services. I record that SV wants earmarking and forcing, and that the Workers' Party is talking about ear marking, but does not. We trust that the best decisions and priorities will be taken locally and almost those who need the services. Our government also strengthens the offer of drug addicts and people with mental disorders. These patients have been at the bottom of the health policy table for far too many years. Now the necessary health care is given high priority by our government. First, we reintroduced the important rule in the specialist healthcare service on greater growth in drug and mental health than in somatics. In this year's budget, we reintroduced the earmarking of 343 million. DKK for rural development measures in municipalities. Now we're further strengthening our investment by 200 million. kr in the free income but dedicated to health. I have listened to SV's posts in the hall today – and yesterday, when the representative Audun Lysbakken said he believed that the government's bet with 400 million. to children, young people, intoxication and mental health could end up with a gastric plaque due to a lack of earring. It's only SV politicians in opposition who themselves feel that they may have failed in these areas for many years, which can make themselves call almost half a billion in increased bets in these important areas for a possible stomach patch. SV and the representative Lysbakken believe that these groups are not prioritised by municipal politicians. We believe that the sound political sense is evenly distributed between us with political trusts independent of level, and we trust that with local understanding of local needs they make good decisions. In total, these will be 400 million. SEK could mean 650 new professionals who can work directly in the municipalities with those who need help, as quickly as possible and as early as possible. We promised voters that they would be more involved in health centres, drugs and mental health. So we're going to show that we're going to do that right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1503	Let me start by answering the representative Ruth Mari Grung, who is talking about Bergen. I think we have to remember the story here, that the city council that today took over after a labor party-dominated town council, and that they took over a billion-dollar debt that they had to clean up. In addition, there were not many years after it entered, until a new red-green government came that made many changes that turned negative for Bergen. One took the corporate tax from Bergen, a reduced tax component, and an increased tax bias. All three elements in total have made it more problematic to be mountain politicians, while we have a policy that will make it easier to be Bergen. We say we should return the company tax, so I would recommend Bergen instead of reintroducing property tax, to look at the possibility of reintroducing the company tax to the municipality. We want to look at the tax elements, and we also have to warn that the government has to look at the growth community's initiative, whether it can be set up so that those who grew a lot in population numbers, and not necessarily only in percent, can also get out of the scheme. So this government prioritizes the mountain more than the red-green has done. Then I have to respond to what several workers' party representatives did a great deal of it: trust in local politicians attached to the loan approval system. Let me just say that the intention is not that Trondheim should not be allowed to build schools, kindergartens and care for the elderly – then one has not understood the background. So I also have to say that the inspiration for this proposal has come from the working party and the red-green. When they had the regional reform, they had a completely identical proposal. One could then put the question back: Did they distrust state politicians, or did they think that this was a good way to organise strategic investments? For it is only the case that the population should not go in and assess the level of investment or invest in the necessary investments in school and care for the elderly. They shall consider individual cases, for example: whether a municipality should build a large town hall, and it would be natural to see it in connection with the municipal reform. So I think you should calm down a little bit when it comes to creating a picture that there's a distrust between the Storing and the local politicians. We have great confidence in local politicians. So finally a little about the holiday solution, which has been a big theme today. We have a comment that the Council of State has already said that he has read and will come back to. We're happy about it. The representative, Bjørn Lødemel, has said that we are expecting 40 years, and that is of course all the time it is 30 years today, and this government has told us to strengthen the system. Then it's natural that one reinforces the system of state road ferries, and that one in addition put on the table a system of state road ferries. We do not want to go into the proposal of the red-greens who say exactly how this is to be done, because there must be a solution for this within the income system. Then the government has to come back to us, and we have full confidence that it does, so that many island communities can have continental connections because of this good arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1512	The central party regrets that in its proposal for a new income system for county municipalities, the government is based on a number of cost keys that are too ill-lit. The keys result in large redistributions from districts, such as Sogn and Fjordane, and North Norway to the Oslo region and the national states. But when even Hordaland, with Bergen, gets down, it tells me that there must be something about the keys that haven't hit. Everyone knows that there is a lot of policy in the design of the income system. Now the government must actually take the consequences of the income system that they themselves have provided, not the debt of others. It's disclaimer. And if there's as many loose threads as we get now, one should have waited and run a listener. One has forgotten about vacation release methods. There should have been good reasons to have gone some new rounds on this. In addition to the new unfinished keys, the government proposes to replace the current income guarantee scheme with a new loss compensation scheme. This is out of time. This enhances the redistribution effects. So the centre party has a proposal where we ask the government to come back with proposals to mitigate these redistribution effects. Several parties should have voted in favour of this. Then to the contents of the cost keys for ferry services. That's the number of ferry links. This means that, unlike before, the county loses the permissions of the suspension project on the county roads. The changes will also have a retroactive effect on those countries that have seen the project in progress and are counting on these funds in funding. The centre party, together with SV, therefore proposes that the Storting ask the government that the implementation of the suspension project on the county roads should not lead to a reduction in transfers during the first 40 years after the start of the project. This solves the challenges for the states that have invested in the holiday relief project, but also in the future holiday relief project. I read in the newspapers in the West that the Right Party and the Advance Party signal that they have launched a system here. No, it's not a scheme, it's ordered. There is nothing about the number of years, but one should treat the county road project in a non-discriminatory way and the other. The people who think it is important to put this system in place, actually have to vote for the proposal that the Central Party has been looking forward to. I am very pleased that the Labour Party has today signaled that they will support this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1528	The municipal sector is a very important level of administration, as the sector performs a wide range of welfare services on which our citizens depend. It is therefore important that we have good and predictable framework conditions for the municipal sector in order to provide good, ongoing welfare services. Over time, the tasks of the local government sector have changed by the fact that ever new tasks have been assigned to the local government level, while the quality requirement for the provision of services has increased. Yes, the citizens have become increasingly aware of your rights in this regard. Therefore, more is required of employees at all levels of the municipalities. After the last major municipal reform in 1965, which was the result of the work of the Schei Committee, there has been no overall intervention for the country as a whole in terms of how we organize the municipal level in our country. There have been some scattered municipal mergers in the period, but this has not been put into a complete, total context. I welcome the announced municipal reform and have noticed that one of the governments defines the local reform as a reform for strengthened local democracy, better service provision and more legal and efficient administration. If one is to succeed in the community reform, it is necessary to give reform work a good local anchor. I am pleased that the government is also adding up to this and inviting broad political cooperation on the reform. I noticed that the local processes are assumed to go from autumn 2014 to autumn 2016. I think this is a reasonable time frame. One will probably not improve the process with a frame beyond this, perhaps rather the opposite. One question that has been raised in the opinion is whether or not you will get a municipal merger by coercion. I have noticed that it has been suggested that individual municipalities should not be able to stop changes that are desired for regional and national reasons, and that the government could propose merging the municipalities that deviate from local decisions. However, I expect that the arguments that emerge from the local debates will be taken into account by the government. The approach outlined in the proposal on positive economic instruments seems to be reasonable in principle, and I think this will be seen as a carrot that will stimulate an extra interest in starting up discussions on the organisation of the municipal level when this begins seriously. As regards the intermediate level, i.e. the county councils, this should have been assessed in the community reform work. The Progress Party has programmed the closure of the county municipality, as two levels of government in our country are considered sufficient. I note that at present there is no majority in the Stortingen to lay down the county municipality. Further work in relation to this level of management should thus be suspended until further notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1547	We have put behind us seven-eight years where we have probably seen Norway record, if not world record, centralization of power and authority – and for that part of the people of the Oslo region. For the Left, local reform is not an end in itself, but a means of strengthening the municipalities in relation to the state, and thus counteracting centralisation and relieving pressure on the Oslo region. By providing municipalities with new tasks, services, jobs, more exciting jobs and a wider professional environment, municipalities are also becoming more attractive as employers. If it doesn't completely reverse centralization powers, it's one of the best guarantees we have to reduce them. If we give the municipalities better conditions to create growth and progress in their own municipalities, it will be good in this way. However, a local reform without a regional level would have outweighed such an effect, in addition to the fact that even larger municipalities would not be large enough to require some tasks to be laid down by the government, and thus beggars to weaken local democracy. Therefore, the left is very pleased with proposal No. 26, in which we, together with the Christian People's Party and the government parties, decide that we should lay the basis for a regional reform in parallel with the work on municipal reform. Without the county council as a coup d'état against the state, there is a danger that centralisation will be strengthened, as well as that a government's government will necessarily need to be strengthened at state level rather than democratising and transferring tasks to a popular regional level. If I take my own region as example, the West, an engine of both value creation and export income, there is little doubt that a regional level will strengthen and increase the bottom line of AS Norway. Coherent urban and working regions and even stronger cooperation between counties, cities and municipalities, each of which is unbelievably good at much, are a guarantor in this way. Business is at the forefront, thinking more and more regionally. So if we're going to do what we're chosen to do, which is what both business and democracy are doing, we have no more than the time and the place to start a regional reform as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1558	Community merger can be good. It can be good when it's locally initiated, it can be good when it's voluntary, it can be good when there's a local referendum about a desire to implement it. That's what's happened in India and Moscow in the state I'm from. When I asked the centre party rapporteur there – a nice lady – about why things have gone well, she said that if you're going to be able to join municipalities, it's going to have to be rude and respect for, it's just volunteering and the local referendum that helped us get the fuss and respect that was needed. Let me be as clear as Mr. Greni was on it: the Central Party does not support the government's approach to municipal reform. We would like to participate in a debate on reforms that strengthen the role of the local government sector, and we would like to contribute to decisions that reduce the extent of government governance. But that's not what we have to deal with. Strengthening the role of municipalities and counties in general government is not a matter of removing a certain number of municipalities in the country. There is a question of willingness to decentralise tasks from country to local level. We have not been presented with that. The central party likes to share the government's view when it says it wants a municipal structure that is adapted to tomorrow's challenges, but the natural follow-up to that view would have been that the Stortinge had been presented with what kind of division of tasks the government sees between the different levels of government in the future. We haven't got that. The debate on municipal reform has become a strange debate. It has become a debate of clichés. The new word 'robust' may be the best example. It is a debate without one knowing the content, only with a profitable hope that the statesmen and the rapporteurs will come up with structural proposals so that the government will not take a decision on it. Local democracy is important, and it actually works well in low-population municipalities as well. It also works well in those municipalities that cooperate, either through inter-municipal cooperation or joint-communal cooperation. After all, it has been seen as challenging democratic on the part of the government. But let me say that it is a far greater democratic challenge that the government parties will not have popular governance of health companies than it is that more municipalities cooperate between themselves. The government will not guarantee volunteering. Exceptionally, it shall be coercive. It's probably a constructed term that we'll hear often in the future. But there is no such thing as ‘exceptional coercion’. Force is forced, whether you use it often or rarely. And referenda is obviously not interesting for the government either, just community studies. The centre party will not participate in that kind of municipal reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1575	There's a lot of aspects of the community proposition that I could probably comment on. A good arrangement has been put in place for the municipalities and, above all, we are going to carry out the biggest municipal reform in 50 years. This is a necessary and proper local democratic reform, and I am pleased that it has been set up to ensure both good progress and time for change. This is gonna be good. When I take the floor, it was the majority comments on ferry release products that got me to do it. It is an incredibly important matter for the whole of Coast Norway and an important step towards building good housing and labour market regions. In this sense, it is also an important step towards contributing to stronger and more robust municipalities. The Government Platform has established that the ferry national route relief system should be extended. This means that it should be increased beyond the 30 years that can be used as a maximum today. The next step, as I see it, will be 40 years. In the municipal proposition, the four co-operation parties agreed to ask the government to set up a system of ferry-reliefs also for county road projects. Since the administrative reform in 2010, it has been unclear how this should be handled within the income system of the county councils. The fact that it is now being addressed is great and incredibly important for the development of many good transportation projects where it is desirable to replace ferries with bridges or tunnels. Ferry solvents are not extra funds above the budget. Today, county councils receive transfers from the state for, inter alia, to cover the ferry operation. With the new income criteria, this will be measured on the basis of objective criteria, such as: Ferry ratio. If a ferry is replaced by a bridge or tunnel, the whole point is that the money that today goes to ferry operations can go into the financing of that bridge or tunnel. So it's an alternative use of already granted money for a limited period of time. For the state, this is a win-win situation. The red-green government was unable to establish a ferries-relief scheme within the county income system. With new objective criteria for allocating framework grants to ferry operations, this will be much easier. We must have the same framework conditions for financing the ferry relief project regardless of whether it is state-owned or state-owned. The majority of the comments from the cooperation parties are therefore incredibly important. Now we're going to put in place a ferry redemption scheme, not just for the highway, but also for the highway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1592	I used to have our spokesmen in the Sund municipality of Hordaland. I was also a leader in the Regional Council of the West of the municipalities of Ashøy, Fjell, Sund and Eyegarden. Here I was early and took the initiative to start a process of municipal convergence, with the aim of changing the municipal borders. The background for our local commitment was that we perceived that there was broad political unity among the big parties here on the Stortingen about such a process. Locally, we were some, both labour party leaders and right-wing spokesmen, that after the 2014 elections, government change or not, there would be changes. So now I'm a little surprised at the Working Party and what signal they're sending. We have been told from the media that Helga Pedersen already in 2010 believed that coercion was necessary. And in the Labour Party election program, it's pretty clear that they want fewer municipalities. In retrospect, it turns out that the Labour Party believes that the municipal reform is too puzzled, and now last but not least that it is too offensive. Today, Helga Pedersen has done well for why the Labour Party does not support the whole community reform scheme. It can be done, among other things: on the time aspect and financial instruments. This dual communication from the Workers' Party creates some uncertainty, both among the inhabitants and among others, not least among the Workers' Party's own spokesmen, with whom I have good contact. Helga Pedersen says in his post that people know their own best. In my experience, however, it has been right for many, many years, but municipal reform and changes in the municipal border are also about people's feelings and not just about people's own best. Many are in favour of municipal convergence, but not in their municipality. So this is going to be more than one place to listen to. This may be due to the fact that many municipalities have good local politicians who maximise the interests of the municipality. Then it can quickly become suboptimisation in a region. What is good for one municipality does not necessarily have to be good for the whole region, or for the neighbouring municipality, for that cause. Suboptimisation over many years may have created unfortunate cooperation relationships in many places. This means that volunteering can be demanding. I know this very well. Therefore, I very much appreciate Marit Arnstad's words here that it must be 'prudence and respect' when these processes are to be carried out. However, I am pleased that the Labour Party in its electoral programme has the following wording: «The working party considers that individual municipalities should not be able to stop changes that are appropriate for regional reasons.» I hope that the Labour Party is clear on the goal they will achieve, in line with the electoral programme, and that they invite their spokesmen out in the municipalities to take an active part in the process, so that we get good local processes in this reform for the benefit of the inhabitants. The Workers' Party may then omit to use this exception in its party program, as Helga Pedersen mentioned, in the last section on coercion.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1619	In order to carry out a major reform, it is important to know what problem to solve. There it has been interesting to follow Right over many years. Over the period 2001–2005, there was a reform of efficiency. The costs had to be reduced in order to create a sustainable public sector. So Erna Solberg and others realized that it lost you choices, and started talking about people, not billions. So, once you had put it away, the next thing was that the services are so much worse in small municipalities than in large municipalities. There is also a big problem with that claim, because when you look at the state population survey, under the direction of Diffi, people are most satisfied in small municipalities, not in large numbers. There are different reasons for this, but at least it is a fact that people are obesely more satisfied in small than in large municipalities. The next big problem to solve was that municipalities cooperated; it was a huge problem. That's why one should solve it by coercion, because coercion is better than cooperation. Especially in small municipalities, there were too many intercommunal companies. The challenge with that claim is that if you go into the KOSTRA numbers and see where there is the most cooperation, there are between large municipalities, not between small ones. It also makes sense, because there are more complex challenges in a large municipality than in a small one. But if there's intermunicipal cooperation that's the big problem, at least it's not the answer to that community merger. So we've noticed that Jan Tore Sanner has promised in a lot of debates that child protection is so much worse in small municipalities than in large municipalities. Then it's also interesting to go in and look at the reports on this. KS launched a report, through Deloitte, analysing child protection. And when you read it – you also read that those who wrote the report were themselves a little surprised – you see that on average, vocational training is better in small than in large municipalities. Of course, there are challenges in child protection both in large and in small municipalities. But what's the problem with this whole reform is that the answer is community aggregation, but what's the question? And if we then get to refute that question, the new question comes all the time – because you know what the answer is. And it almost ended up in the parody here in the staging room before Christmas when we discussed soil protection. The answer to the soil protection question was not to say no to expanding IKEA Vestby, the answer was not to say no to the reregulation of 1000 dean in Trondheim, the answer was not to say no to the reregulation of cultivated land in Bergen. No, the answer to Listhaug was a community merger. And that is the main problem of this reform: it is an ideologically driven project in which many problems have to be solved, but there is no professional proof of it. But we know that for the Right Party and the Advance Party, the answer is no matter how merged. I fundamentally disagree with what Trellevik from the Right said instead: that people's feelings are a problem. We have to assume that people in a local municipality know better how to organize themselves than we do here in Oslo. That we who sit here in Oslo are so much wiser than those out there, is a social view we in the Center Party don't share.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1638	The municipal bill 2015 has a very exciting outlook, especially with regard to Chapter 4, municipal reform. It is with great pleasure that a record is made that many municipalities – including my home country, Telemark – are already talking to neighbouring municipalities about community planning, and this proposition indicates the timing and process. It is also fully in line with the Health Declaration and the Cooperation Agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, which states: ‘A municipal reform is being carried out, ensuring that the necessary decisions are taken during the period.’ The government states that the purpose of the reform is to spread power, limit state detail management and build society from below by giving more space for action to individuals, families, communities and businesses. Community reform is not austerity reform but a reform of democracy. In this proposition, a period of time will be outlined in which the municipality will take its decisions before summer 2016, and where the government will present a comprehensive proposition to the Stortinget on a new municipal structure in spring 2017. It's an exciting time for municipalities to meet, it's exciting for residents and local politicians in the country's 428 municipalities. Then we also record that many spokesmen are skeptical of the reform of their own municipalities, but say in the same investigation, which is done by the NRK, that they believe there will be fewer municipalities. Experience from Denmark shows that it is important to note the possible negative consequences that such a comprehensive reform could have for the municipalities as the local political arena. It is crucial to facilitate the strengthening and further development of the working conditions of local politicians and their role in larger municipalities. An important objective of the reform is to ensure good and equivalent services to the inhabitants, and where the generalist principle is the starting point for the reform. It is a very important argument for a community reform that all citizens should have equal and equivalent services regardless of how much a cage they live. For many municipalities, it means that you have to have a larger professional environment to meet this goal. The municipal reform will strengthen local democracy, and larger communities with strong trade unions will be able to carry out larger and more tasks from the county, county and state. The focus of the municipal reform is often on the small municipalities and the profits they see as a municipal merger, but also on the larger municipalities and cities, for example, can have huge gains. land, flatwork and industrial policy. With this reform, the local government will be vitalized. Then we have to increase local self-government. With this reform, you can hope that more people will find it interesting to be elected. Work on the community reform had to be characterized by good local processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1667	We're happy to confirm the third level. It is a regional reform that takes into account a decentralisation by moving government tasks to a popular level and – not least – moving more tasks from the county to a popular level. This is to make it a much better democratic anchoring. In the debate, many people are trying to create an impression of an income system that was unknown to the red-greens, not least the representative Jenny Følling, who was here, who is a deputy for Liv Signe Navarsete, who was then a municipal minister. I'm amazed. It must be frankness and respect for it, says the representative Marit Arnstad – yes, I agree with it – and the will for decentralisation. But that's exactly what we're pointing at, including what we had as proposals last week, that was adopted. So it's always said that it's cliché-caught. What kind of task is that? And – not least – is it sustainability? Yes, of course it's sustainability. This is local democracy. The representative, Battle Force Vedum, is asking us what problems we're going to solve. Isn't it as interesting to ask the question, what possibilities does this give? But I realize it's not the center stage. I realize there's a trace of the Senter party that won't talk about. This is an opportunity reform, a reform of democracy. But that track doesn't want the Center Party at all. Why? I don't know, but I think it's strange when there are rapporteurs in so many municipalities, that one doesn't see the possibilities of this being part of creating. Of course we could. To use the words of the representative Karin Andersen earlier today, why are we doing this? Well, precisely in order to create a greater professional environment, professionalism, etc., which is important for serving our citizens. But the municipality is for the inhabitants and not for the peculiarity of itself. The identity of most of us is in the place where we live and live, not necessarily where a municipal border set in 1964 goes. The identity is about it. Not least, something has happened in 50 years when we are much more mobile. It's not safe for everyone to have brought it. But I think the country's population is also aware that it's not new that mobility has increased in 50 years. That's why I think this is good. What's happening today is the start-up shot to get more opportunities in Municipality-Norway, and not less. It doesn't create any more problems. I want to see the opportunity room and not the problem room, as the Center Party does.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1684	Some of us big-time politicians come here to Stortinget after a career as former municipal or state politicians. Even I have experience from Brønnøy Municipality and Nordland County. I've been in the presidency for the last six years before I came to the Grand Council. I can promise that there has been a lot of tough thank-you with cuts in the budgets because of tight allocations. We were constantly experiencing centrally adopted reforms – I dare say – coming down our heads, without these being fully funded. This resulted in cutbacks in existing municipal services. The last underfunded reform I experienced was the Interaction Reform. As a county politician, I was presented – at least at an economic presentation by the then County Council and former Minister of Industry of the Workers' Party – with restrictions and cuts in county services that had to come as a result of a change in the income structure of the county councils with the then red-green government. We politicians are there to serve the people, and the people are not served by politicians who turn their heads after the wind – which I now experience the Workers' Party is doing. What if we all stand up for the changes that we all really understand have to come? When they're told they're coming, they're coming. A lot of things have changed since today's transfer key was created. Population composition and housing patterns have changed. The content of secondary education has changed and the infrastructure and travel habits have changed as new roads, bridges and tunnels are built. I note that the Labour Party representative Helga Pedersen stood here on the pulpit earlier today and said they agreed that the keys were too old and that the income system had to change. The Labour Party has reported this through previous municipal propositions while they were in government, but they never did anything about it – neither involving the county municipalities to make recordings, as the representative Pedersen requested, nor putting it on the political agenda. When the Right Party and the Advance Party take responsibility and propose this, and we record the strong criticism, especially from the Labour Party, this becomes completely incomprehensible to me. It must also be confusing for people out there. I'm proud to be part of a Right-Fremskritsparte-regiering that is betting on the north, which is betting on the north. The three most northerly counties received more than 200 million. In 2014, we will reduce the distance constraints and facilitate growth in the districts. The government has removed the inheritance tax and reduced the property tax. This is also a good policy for the north and business owners in the north. For Northern Ireland, this government increased the county road budget by nearly 130 million. kr and has notified further increase of more than 20 million through this proposition. kr for the 2015 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1699	This is an interesting debate on democracy. Yesterday we discussed hospitals. I record that the representative from the Workers' Party is talking about dance floors that we are going to facilitate in the public sector. That's absolutely right. I commend the Workers' Party and the Red-Green Government for the intentions behind the Reform of Cooperation. It is this dance floor that we have to provide – in order to provide everyone with the welfare services you need. If we look 15 to 20 years in advance, it is precisely these challenges we are facing – and for which we are going to rig the dance floor. I am surprised that the Workers' Party and the Red-Green parties, which have had a certain willingness to reform through the Cooperation Reform – in particular the Workers' Party, which rigged the hospital reform with a considerable willingness to reform – are today fighting to rig the dance floor for the future. When I put health companies up against today's Municipality of Norway, it becomes superbureaucratic towards ideal democracy. I want the management models to approach each other a little bit more. As the representative of Skkelstad said, we are discussing the possibility of using all of Norway. Then the reform of the Left is that we have to look at the structure and organisation of the state as much as we have to look at the organisation of the municipalities. We have to make them a little bit more equal and distribute resources more evenly. Therefore, we will also have an intermediate level that is able to help the municipalities and relieve the state. That is why what we are discussing today is important – how we should judge ourselves to accept the change we need to move towards the so-called wave of old age that meets us from 2020 onwards. Now we have the opportunity to organise the future public sector to meet this challenge. We have a lot of money on the book, we don't have a shortage of work resources now, but we're in danger of getting a little less money on the book and a little less hands to take off after 2020. This is why it is a very important reform, precisely to allocate resources and lay the dance floor for the future. We're talking about both the distribution of people and the distribution of billions. There are also some slightly smaller challenges – technical challenges – related to information and communication technologies. The municipal sector needs to be able to avoid standardisation and coordination that we do not see well enough today. It is also about funding to take advantage of new technologies and opportunities. We're facing a welfare technology leap. The technology is there, but the funding is missing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1712	It is very gratifying that, 50 years after the last major municipal reform, it is now a large political majority to make a historic decision that will set the course for the new municipality of Norway, where the municipalities will have control. There is a reform designed from below based on regional and local assumptions and good neighbourhood relations. This is not just a reform of today's situation and challenges in Kommune-Norway, it is a reform for the coming decades. This is neither about clichés nor about coercion, as some try to make it as. The aim of the municipal reform is to provide municipalities that will continue to be able to deliver quality services to their inhabitants, especially to the weak groups, and municipalities that can ensure this good quality through good recruitment and the breadth of the trade unions. Such municipalities can gain more trust and more tasks in the coming years. For the Right, the aim is not least to strengthen local democracy and lay the basis for the vitalisation of the work of local government. It's not to put the municipalities under administration – on the contrary. We want to reduce the state's detailed management of municipalities. The growth of the state bureaucracy and the state review of the municipality have been staggering in recent years. I know that as a longtime group leader in both local government and county councils. This has hindered the development of very many municipalities. The spread of power – reducing the influence of the state and governance of local democracy – is therefore important precisely because we believe that society is built and developed from below, and because we trust the municipalities and local people. We want fewer objections, and we want less of directorates and state bureaucrats dealing with politics through the discretion they exercise. We will give municipalities more space for action to develop their communities and drive business development based on local competences and local conditions. We welcome the new simplifications in the practice of the Planning and Building Act, and we want more flexible land policies, so that municipalities can take advantage of the opportunities. That is why this is a very important reform for District Norway. With regard to the regionally elected level, there was a process of regional reform prior to 2010, which came out little. On the right, it is noted that the bulk of the population wants a regional level and believe that there can be many exciting opportunities in regional processes that can create strong regional partnerships and increase political development in the regions. In Trøndelag we have many good experiences through the process between Indrey and Mosvik. We have also initiated a process to assess the aggregation of clusters. I am pleased that the government has been clear that the municipal reform should not be austerity reform for the state, that the municipalities should keep the profit, and that significant positive economic incentives are put in place in the reform to create the necessary long-term predictability for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1734	There is a broad consensus on the need to look at the municipal sector 50 years after the previous major reform, and it is good to see that there is a broad consensus on many of the elements of the government's community reform. That is a good basis for further work. Even if the Workers' Party is trying to make an artificial distance from the Government Party and the Cooperation Party when it comes to the use of coercion, this is more a game for the gallery than real contradictions. The other one is pretty much some of it. The centre party and SV have positioned themselves on the sideline in the work on a new municipal reform, and they can stand there for me. It also applies to other reform work. When it comes to the economic consequences for the municipalities in this municipal proposal, it is good to see that the government is adding up to a growth in the income of the municipal sector of 4.5 to 5 billion. kr in 2015. It is very positive that the government continues to strengthen the economy of the municipalities, so that municipalities can meet the challenges of increasing the costs of the population increase, increasing pension costs, and strengthening the municipal welfare services. The local authority is robust, but municipalities must also focus in the future on efficient operation and priorities. As many years of saying, I think it is good that the government is clear that the frames are the ones, so that there is no creation of an unrealistic picture of the situation. This contrasts in stark contrast with the previous red-green governments that created a glossy image and created false expectations. It is particularly gratifying to see that the government provides a robust community structure, and in particular that the Central Party's terror propaganda in the election campaign, about the fury of the local economy, has been put to shame by this community scheme. When it comes to the new income system for county councils, we can define two things. The only thing is that the red-green government knew that there was a very combustible case in the drawer of the late Minister of Regional and Municipal Affairs Liv Signe Navarsete – without doing anything about it. The reason was that the political consequences were too great. In this municipal proposal, it is pointed out that a working group with the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, the Ministry of Transport and the Directorate of Roads collects a large amount of data for county municipalities with figures for both ferry and boat connections. The sector key for boat and ferry to the State budget for 2015 will be further worked on. That's good. In addition, the members of the Right Party and the Advance Party of the Committee have in a note asked the government to provide an overview of the distribution of government purchases of NSB services and air services between regions and counties and the impact it has on the income system of county municipalities. This has been called for a long time, and it's good that one now gets it in place. It is important to get a thorough review of these sides of the income system and see what kind of outcome it is, so that you can get the fairest income system possible for county municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1760	Over several years, we have been working together to build good welfare services for our citizens. We are very much talking about local democracy, we are demanding quality at all levels, we are demanding effective solutions, and we are also talking about further efforts. At the same time, when we know the population development — and not least the age composition — in some municipalities, it clearly shows that time has acquired the municipal structure of the day. In the north we have municipalities, but we also have many small municipalities. If we are to meet the requirements of the future for service production, we need to build a robust municipal structure. In Troms, we have a number of examples of today's municipal structure obtaining today's demands for this production. The second largest island in Norway, Senja, has four municipalities and has a population of over 3,000. The municipality of cod, which is one of these, recently had to go to the municipality of Harstad, further south of the county, in order to settle its accounts for 2011 and 2012. It had not been approved because it did not have sufficient competence for this in the municipality. In addition, the municipalities on this island cooperate closely with the larger municipality of Lenvik and provide a lot of technical services, for example: in relation to waste and planning. They also cooperate — not least — in health and social services and have, among other things, child protection and a joint permanent medical service in a district medical centre. Everyone agrees that services have improved through this work. They have received higher quality, it is easier to recruit for highly skilled jobs, and resources have been better used. So we now have to ask ourselves whether intercommunal cooperation is a forward-looking, good democratic instrument. When Torsken, as I said, cannot even deliver the accounts, I believe that several warning lights should light up. Time is ripe, and we need structures that serve the citizens, democracy and not least society – not the rapporteurs and the advisers. It is therefore very gratifying that we stand together in the United Kingdom today and get a broad majority on the way to an important and historic reform of welfare production in Norway. It is not least important to make use of all the important opportunities available in the north. We must then have strong and robust municipalities that can facilitate business development, which can be attractive when living and which can meet the future with growth and new opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1775	This has been a good debate on local reform. I am pleased that she has been given the impression of the debate, and I am also pleased that many have taken the floor in the very area of the municipal reform debate. The centre party has entered heavily. Violence Vedum wondered what problem he was going to solve. Politics is not just about solving problems; politics is also about creating opportunities. For us, it is important to create opportunities – through a community reform – for municipalities to have even more new tasks. Fortunately, the representative Marit Arnstad agreed that one should move tasks down to the municipal level. The central part of the government in which they were put received little penetration in order to move tasks away from the state, but now they can be allowed to cooperate with us in the coming message to move tasks down from county and state to large and more robust municipalities. We're looking forward to that. The central party leader also said that he wondered what professional occupation we had to carry out the reform. At least there is no professional evidence that the structure created 50 years ago is the only one true. Then there was a waiting list to get a phone call, there was a waiting list to get a car, and there was little communication. So the reform that was created that time can't be right today anyway. On the other hand, what is scientific research is the effects of the aggregations that we have, and they are inconclusively positive for those that we owe it. The Committee itself visited Nord-Trøndelag and struck the spokesman in the new municipality of India, which gave a good description. The centre party is the party that has vocabulary experience from merged municipalities where things are going well, so why is the party in this room so negative to carry out a reform when their own people have good experience – there are actually many of their own who are the ones taking the initiative? When I was a committee leader, the first person who called me, the Central Party spokesman, Jon Askeland, who said that now we have to give gas when it comes to getting tools to get a new municipal reform in place. So a little bit about the income system of the county, which has also been debated a lot. There it has been claimed that the county councils did not know, and Bjørn Lødemel was probably the one who was best to explain that they have known. He indicated that the County Councillor in Sogn and Fjordane in the 2011 budget wrote that the county municipalities had to prepare for lower incomes. Read a discussion about the municipal proposition last year, the then state councillor Liv Signe Navarsete said straight away that when a lay about the administration reform, Sogn and Fjordane got more. In fact, she says: ‘Sogn and Fjordne got a total of 10 pst. by the frame – far above what one or other should have had.’ Then it's no surprise that when you apply a professional, objective criterion, you get a little less.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1793	The title of what I'm going to talk about is "carrots into eternity". With my knowledge of the duration of carrots and carrots and my experience in agriculture, I would say that if they are to last forever, they have at some point leveled themselves to the soil. When I listen to the Central Party's argument and demand for, or criticism of carrots that are only going to last until 2017, I have to say that I hear a party that does not want any change, that does not see any diagnosis, and that has no need for treatment. Everything should be like it's been before. There is disagreement about the instruments, there is disagreement about the start-up, there is disagreement about the carrots, which only last until 2017 – because it seems to be forced – and there is no visible evidence of political leadership. I hear a hint from the Central Party that they will have a longer duration, but I do not hear any message about how long. I hear a party that wants other processes, but I don't see the turn of an alternative scheme. I also hear about the need for tools – or no tools – but I see either an alternative here. I feel that I hear a Central Party that has failed to take political leadership and set out the course for the future. For eight years, the sin of failure has been rife. An income review of the county municipality system has not been carried out. They've talked about it, but they haven't been able to target the ball or take initiatives to realize it. So the political burden and political leadership have not wanted to take over. I also see a central party that has been in government for eight years, which has been busy with ferry relievers, talking about it, but not doing anything about it, but who now would like to promote it as their own proposal – without having received any hearing for it or implementing power over the eight years you have been in government. I also see a central party that does not agree with the diagnosis, does not need treatment, and therefore has not reduced any commission, nor taken the initiative, to have a review to strengthen local democracy – which I know the party is very concerned about – by moving tasks from the County Council, the county council, preferably the state, down to the municipalities to just strengthen the local democracy that lies there, and which the party well fences around in the celebrations. I am fully aware that one size and one shape does not fit everyone. The country has different assumptions. It is therefore strange that the Central Party will not give confidence in a reform that should just strengthen the ability of people to choose for themselves, with volition.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1810	I am a little surprised at some of the speeches in this debate, because what we disagree about is coercion and that there is to be such a short finish line for a reform process. You're allowed to join us today. There are many people who have taken the initiative, many who are working on it. All right, we're all for it. The only thing left after the government is coerced, and there's going to be a finishing line, so that whoever hasn't been hiding now, it's going to stand. That is what political leadership is called, and it is even called more democracy and more local democracy, when you are not supposed to listen to the locals in the first place. So I'm a little surprised at the tone you're taking in this debate. Then it's the income system for county municipalities. Preparing for lower incomes is not the same as being able to participate and discuss the impact of different approaches. I hear that the committee chairman is back up here and says that these are professionally objective criteria. That's not right. If you weigh high school, county roads, public transport in one way or another, it gives you different results. It's politics, it's – whether you want to strengthen in one way or another. Now you try to stretch to the weather and blame others for the effects you are now presenting. You could take the time to put this forward, so we could have discussed it. Then it would have been possible for the county councils to tell us how this turns out, and we could have taken a decision on it. It's absolutely right that we have to change this, but now no one knew how this turned out, because it's been discovered by the government, secretly. So at the end of the discussion about earring: Tone The Throne from the Right was up here instead and talked about that the government put so much effort on health sisters and on the Russians and psychiatry, but you didn't mean the money because they prided themselves on the local democracies – because we didn't do that to others! Yes, SV knows that the municipalities need more money to get to this, and we are not afraid to say that if we believe that there is a need for health sisters, we put ear tag on it – it's honest and okay. We did it when we were in government; we spent 180 million. kr on the table of health sisters. Then you've checked it out, and it hasn't become a single health sister. In this way, the bet that the government and the majority now say should be on health sisters, on rushes and psychiatry, on those sitting at the bottom of the table, equally likely to be on asphalt – or on a building. That may be good, but then there is no bet on psychiatry and intoxication and on those sitting at the bottom of the table! If you want a bet on this, you have to put enough money on the table – and it does, SV – and you have to be willing to say that this is so important that it has to be done. In terms of child protection, for example, the government also sees this as necessary, and they support the line that SV had in government, namely that we have to earmark bets on child protection if there is to be any of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1823	From the last article, one could get the impression that only this municipal reform had not had a time limit, so SV could join. That's actually what I heard – that only this one could last forever, there would have been no problem. I'm really not sure of that! What I took the floor for was to comment on a couple – three of the posts that I have registered specifically from the Workers' Party today, talking about municipalities being put under state administration. It was even said by an Labour Party representative here that all municipalities with the proposed approval scheme became ROBEK municipalities. Then I think the Workers' Party's representatives are speaking against better knowledge. That's the one. In fact, – and I think it is well known – the intention of this loan authorisation scheme is to ensure that no sudden, inappropriate new arrangements are made to adapt. Planned investments, planned activities, I expect you to get a nod and an ok from County State, but if individual municipalities still want to ‘cut out’ – as we say in Trøndelag – completely, then the County may have to look at it. This is – once again – the same logic that underpinned the red-greens’ own proposals linked to their own regional reform. Then there is also a point that one of our cooperation parties, Left, has expressed a waiting attitude for this loan authorisation scheme. Yes, it is true that the Left has said that they want to wait for this, and that they have a slightly different attitude than the rest of us. However, the difference between the Left and the Labour Party is that the Left says that here we have a municipal reform, but in fact it is not that we can automatically join all the elements of that reform. There are individual elements here on which the Left Party says they are not quite sure, but they still actively choose to join the reform and say run – ‘go’ – and stand behind the reform. That's the difference, and that's what the left has to pay for. It is still the case that in this room there is broad political consensus – here I think it is only the SV and the Central Party that are on the sidelines – that there is a need for reform: we agree that there are some challenges that need to be solved, we agree on the objectives of the reform – what we want to achieve – and we agree that we need to get started. I will give tribute to the Labour Party's Lauvås who say that the Workers' Party's people should contribute constructively around the municipalities in this work. There is also much agreement on the financial instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1834	I would also like to note that there is now broad political agreement on the main elements of the community reform, and I am pleased to see that. This means that the reform will be implemented. Some have questioned the process and deadlines. Well, let me say this: a year ago, municipal reform was a non-theme. Today there is a debate in almost all municipalities. I have traveled Norway across the board and talked to rapporteurs, talking to local politicians, talking to people. There is now a great willingness to implement the reform, and local politicians see that they face challenges that do not go ahead. But they also ask me for one more thing: let's not lead this debate into eternity, set some deadlines, set a finish line. And that's what we're doing by saying that the reform is going to take place in this big period. So to Eirik Sivertsen, who talks about municipalities being put under administration. That's wrong. This debate would have been about whether you were dealing with reality and not seeing ghosts at the light of day. It's not about ROBEK. It's not about law enforcement. It is about exactly the same thing as the Red-Greens – the Centre Party, SV and the Workers’ Party – suggested when they were going to implement a regional reform, that is, to avoid neighbours getting into trouble because someone is adapting just in front of a municipal merger. It's not about Trondheim not being able to build schools and hospitals, but if two municipalities are planning a merger, both are going to build an administrative building on each side of the border, well, it's also natural that you can say no to this. It is once a year that municipalities deal with their large loan budget, and it is in connection with the budget in the autumn. This will be an unbureaucratic, easy way to avoid quarreling between neighbours. Then there's another problem that's been up, and that's the state's income system. The representative, Karin Andersen, says that we should take the time to discuss the matter. It has been discussing since 2005! The Citizen Committee decided in 2005 that the income system of the counties was out of date. Sogn and Fjordane’s Chief Financial Officer wrote in the 2011–2014 financial plan of the State that they had to prepare for a new income system. It was pointed out that it could amount to 250 million. kr for Sogn and Fjordane. The county rapporteur in Sogn and Fjordane was out the day before we presented the proposal, and said that we had to prepare for this. Parliamentary representatives who have been in the county have said from this pulpit that we have discussed this, it will not come as a surprise. What is interesting, on the other hand, is to see if the Workers' Party, when we are going to deal with the budget for the autumn, will propose to take money from Westfold, from Rogaland, from Uppland, from Buskerud, which is now being compensated, as they should have been compensated many years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1845	I thought I'd say a little about the 2013 population survey. When I listen to representatives from the Senterpartiet, I realize that there is much more satisfaction in small municipalities than in larger municipalities, but the 2013 survey shows that when citizens are to express their full satisfaction with their own municipality, they are just as big in small and medium-sized municipalities as in large municipalities. But then this isn't going to be treated either. It's not where the diagnosis lies, nor is it where the carrots are inserted. The report shows that the satisfaction of citizens with the provision of services is not linked to the size of the municipality but is linked to other conditions, such as age and level of education, as well as to the income of municipalities. The fact that small municipalities have higher income per capita than large municipalities is partly a result of property taxes and concessional income – many are power municipalities, at least some of them – and partly a result of state transfers through the income system, such as: small municipal grants, grants to district municipalities and North Norway grants. The fact that small municipalities have higher incomes than large municipalities makes it possible for small municipalities to have a higher coverage of, among other things. nursing homes. Collective transport and fire services are getting higher scores in the larger than in the smaller municipalities, the possibility of getting work and establishing their own business increases with the size of the municipality, and educational opportunities are also considered to be better in large than in small municipalities. Since this was an important contribution from the Centre Party, I find it necessary to comment on it, because the professional coating, which has been requested, is not due to Norway’s progress because people are more or less satisfied in small, medium-sized and large municipalities – the satisfaction is actually fairly evenly distributed. These are completely different challenges, which I hear the Center Party will not discuss, and which you think need neither diagnosis nor treatment. You're just hanging out about some carrots that are going to last forever after 2017. I'm still asking for an alternative from the Center Party to what you think the Municipality of Norway is going to look like in the future, and they're not just saying that it should be the way it was yesterday or in the period we've now gone behind us, with 50 years since we last had a municipal reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1860	It was interesting to hear the main posts of the Council of State here today. The Honorary Orders did not wait for themselves: «more power to local communities», «trust policy», «create from below», «stronger local democracy», etc. It's not hard to agree with that, I think it's a little more difficult to follow the logic further. When the Council of State determines that large municipalities provide a better service, I lack good evidence of that. I also have a bad feeling that the Council of State and the government, with an alternate majority in the UK, are planning to use most of the tools to force the municipalities to merge. This is strange in the light of the rhetoric about trust and good local processes. It seems to me that the government defines good local processes as processes that adapt to the government's wishes for a comprehensive community merger. I want to challenge the Council of State on the following: Would the government respect the outcome of local processes, even if they do not lead to a municipal merger? Will the government respect the local people's will, which may be expressed by, for example, Local referendums? If the government does not want to respect the local people's will, will the government then present its new municipal map to the voters in good time before the 2017 enlargement elections, so that the voters can say their own in connection with the elections? I am very pleased that the Workers' Party is clearly opposed to the coercion of municipalities. Municipalities will have to join forces, but it must be anchored in local needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1883	A few years ago, I said that the government of Stoltenberg did not want Rogaland well. The background for this was the unfortunate outbursts of the state's tax equalization, combined with the biases of the state's income system. Today’s key was created at the end of the 1990s, with data from the early 1990s. Society has evolved and changed a lot at this time. As the Council of State stated, the basis for a fairer distribution was already in 2005, but it was put in the drawer and has been there until we have now received a Right-State Council. The government is now correcting some of the distortions and providing Rogaland with a better income profile. We've been waiting a long time for this. I am pleased that the Right has taken part in the Ministry of Local Affairs, and that our cooperation parties are on a new course. Transfers to Rogaland are gradually increased by 182 million. kr per year and probably 50 million. kr next year. This is money that comes well into a state of growth, where dormitory rooms are converted into classrooms, and where one assesses evening schooling to receive new students. Traffic in the most densely populated strata suffers from chronic infarction. The county faces major investments in environmentally friendly public transport systems – the only sustainable solution. Students in Rogaland are no less valuable, and Rogaland's transportation solutions are no cheaper to build than in other counties. Why do they need less money? Many people think of Rogaland as a rich state, and that's enough, but with the county municipality it's a little bit different. 90 pst. the balancing of tax revenues does not involve the operator involved in the construction of public transport infrastructure in the fluctuation of the economy. At the same time, the income model has turned out poorly. With this in mind, I find it alarming that the Workers' Party does not support this conversion. We've known about the bias in the income system for many years and thought it was the Central Party's iron grip on the Ministry of Local Affairs that prevented a fairer distribution of income between the counties. But after seeing the Committee's position, we can conclude that the Workers' Party still does not want Rogaland well. They say no to 180 million. kr annually to Rogaland, which, if adopted, would make the county worse able to meet the large population growth and less attractive as one of the world’s most important oil regions. I do not expect the Central Party to care about correcting the imbalances affecting growth in Norway, but that the Workers' Party's representatives criticise this conversion, show that they are not concerned about putting Rogaland in a better position to meet the challenges of the future and the problems of growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1894	In the light of history, I believe that the municipal proposition will be seen as something that was neither worse nor better than what we had been expecting for eight years. What I'm going to draw out now is the municipal reform part, the message part. I think that's very interesting. The municipalities are 137 years old, and we now have more municipalities than we had two centuries ago. I think that's special. Then they used a horse and rowing boat, and society has changed a lot after that. That is why we are looking forward to the reform. We in the Christian People's Party and the Left are particularly pleased at the popularly elected regional level, and that we have got the Right Party and the Advance Party to agree to maintain that level. We're very pleased with that. I have collected some words that the Workers' Party has used. They have spoken of ‘pisk’, ‘force’, ‘evil of mistrust’, ‘oversight’, ‘intemporary pressure’, ‘deep feeling’ and ‘threats’. This is not constructive. Maybe it works for internal use. I choose to believe it. As far as the Christian People's Party's point of view is concerned, we have stressed that it should be voluntary, it should be a good process, it should be localised, it should trust local politicians, and the State and KS should be involved. When I read the setting, I see that the Workers' Party is involved in all of this. Therefore, I record that the rhetoric lies a little away from reality. I know the Workers' Party can be the saying. They have introduced reforms with a significantly shorter alert period than the one we now have. At least that's my 20-30 year experience in local politics. Then I allow myself to read a little from the Workers' Party's program – page 66 – because it is an overall document: ‘Changes in the municipal structure should normally be based on local requirements. The Labour Party considers that individual municipalities should not be able to stop changes that are appropriate for regional reasons.» That's exactly what we're going to adopt. It could have been in the Christian People's Party program, and it could have been in the message. I choose to deal with the Workers' Party program, which is serious and punciative. When they also agree with the needs, the starting time and the reward, I think we will get a good cooperation further, and I look forward to that. We're going to start with a national effort, and it was mentioned earlier today that the Christian People's Party could have been invited to another ball. Now I am happy to address this – as politically as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1917	I've said it many times before, and without wanting to accuse anyone here in the hall of being lingerie, I'm going to repeat it: the center party is for community merger. We're in favour of voluntary community merger. I have invited my rapporteurs to take the initiative in this process when the tasks are in place. But what is a prerequisite for us, and to which the government at all will not listen, is the principle of volunteering. Once the local processes have gone and a decision has been taken, we must respect those decisions and not overrun them in the Stortingen. The tasks first, volunteering and no criminal reactions: it's our recipe for the municipal reform. It is said that we are accusing and making false reports that this is a forced reform. If this is not a forced reform, the Council of State has to tell me why it has been announced in the Storting Message on municipal structure that Stortinget will deal with in the spring of 2017. As far as I am aware, all voluntary community mergers are irrelevant, and that is something that is only approved by the King of the Council of State, and will not enter this hall. As regards date stamping on carrots, it was first produced as if this were something new to the Council of State in connection with this reform. That's factual error. What is new is this reform support. The intention of maintaining the breakdown grant was something like Liv Signe Navarsete as the Council of State extended to 15 years. The fact that the municipalities are compensated for their expenses in the event of a municipal merger was something that the red-green government carried out. However, the municipalities are forced to do so when it is said that this falls away if they do not do so by 2017 – in the event of any municipal mergers later, the municipalities will then have to take all the costs themselves. At the same time, it is announced that the small municipality grant will be reviewed.It says something like that: to see if it is actually voluntary when they have not joined – the voluntary nature of the small municipalities – and with a threat of removing the small municipality grant. It's a threat. It is a coercive element that means that the municipalities do not dare not consider the merger, even if they think it may not be the best thing for their municipality. They call it a democracy reform, and what is so far defined in that democracy reform is that local politicians can no longer make investments without state approval, cannot make locations without state approval, and that local policy decisions will be overrun by the Stortinge if they will not join anyone if they are too small to be what the government defines as a robust municipality. There is something quite different than what is my definition of a robust municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1935	One of the representatives of the Progress Party – the representative of Njåstad – said that once the Centre Party has initiated a number of municipal mergers, why can they not be on that path. At the same time, the representative said that the Central Party is stopping everything. The center party is against everything. I think it's very good, and it's sea-fully legal, that the Right and Advance Party – the government parties – criticize the Center Party, but I think at least they should decide. Are we very opposed to everything, or is it such that the central party municipalities have been most concerned with the merger of municipalities? I can repeat what I said in my post, quite accurately. Inderoy and Mosvik are examples of aggregation for which the Center Party is complete, and the reason for this is that it is locally initiated. It's a local referendum, and it's volunteer. If the government can guarantee all three conditions for all municipal mergers, we would have had a completely different debate. When the representative calls for our alternative, yes, it's our option: locally initiated, voluntary and local referendum. But what we see a little bit in today's debate is the real face of the Right Party and the Progress Party. This is a structural reform. This shall be carried out by force — if necessary. A number of right-wing representatives have stood here in the pulpit and have been concerned about the service production and tasks to be performed by municipalities and how important it is for them to be combined. But we still don't know anything about that problem distribution. We don't know anything about that problem division. We in the Central Party would like to have a debate on division of tasks between levels of government if we get the opportunity to do so, but that's the opportunity we don't get, because the government hasn't presented anything about that. I will maintain my claim, despite Agdestein's comments, that this debate is about both clichés and coercion. The fact that we have not got anything on the table to discuss the division of tasks between administrative levels makes the debate so far a cliché debate. As far as coercion is concerned, I also maintain that this debate, in a rather clever way, attempts are being made to redefine the term 'force'. It's quite fascinating to listen to: exceptionally coercive. But coercion is coercion, whether it's often used, or it's rarely used. I think Denmark will say that they have very mixed experiences with community mergers. When the left said that this isn't just about the division of tasks, but that it's about the possibilities we're facing, it's possible. We know nothing about that, and the Left is in a certain danger of buying the cat in the bag, as it is called, if they are in favour of a comprehensive merger without even knowing what tasks, what opportunities and what division of tasks between the administrative levels that should actually lie in the reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1948	I have to leave the income system to the county councils a visit again, and that concerns the question of what the county has known and has not known. The county has shown that there was a revision of the income system at the same time, but not how it turned out. We have known that there was an income guarantee scheme that said that losses over 100 kroner per capita were limited. At least it's budgeted for Sogn and Fjordane, but against the voices of Right, Advance Party and Left. This discussion is as untimely as accusing states that should have known that they got more, in order to have budgeted for how to use these money. Both of these things are just as untimely. Why, then, do we have an income guarantee scheme for the counties and municipalities? This is in order to protect citizens from abrupt changes in service provision. That's because we have an income guarantee scheme. That is why she was introduced after the election of the Borge Committee in 2005. Therefore, it is very important that the government look again at that loss compensation scheme, a permanent loss compensation scheme, which mitigates the serious consequences this has for some districts. It is a well-known strategy that when one wants to focus away from one's own policies, one owes one to another. I mean, that's why all the trials that have been on it in this room, when it's about the income system and the consequences of it. It is an attempt to remove the focus from the consequences of its own policies, the consequences of the priorities and the criteria of the income system, which are so strongly reflected in the county of the representative, Bjørn Lødemel, representing the right party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1957	The representative Marit Arnstad warned against the Left buying the cat in the bag with this reform. But that cat may have been sold. It happened well in the red-green government when the Senter Party went into the path of a regional reform, which became a small country road reform. It was well stranded in many areas, but in particular, the trust in the state was too great – probably – for the Workers' Party. It says something about what fights we're going to take, and the imbalance I had in my previous post between ideal democracy, which is far too different and perhaps a little bit too pigish in Norway today, and the state that's getting so big that it's impossible to restructure it again. That's the challenge we're facing, and that's where we see a room for opportunity, which the representative of Skkelstad was in, when we're building public administration for the next generations and demography is changing as it's about to do now. We're going to have a huge deficit on pre-employment hands, while there's a lot of older people we're going to provide services to. Then we have to make some changes to meet that challenge. That's when the left says there's a need to do something with the state, something with the municipalities, and then we're going to have an intermediate level to help the municipalities relieve the state. I also have to point out that today we are discussing some distributions in the municipal bill that are going in the right direction. Yesterday we discussed an escalation in mental health here in the Chamber, on which we have received the majority in Stortinget. We need a youth health strategy. We also discussed yesterday the user-controlled personal assistant, which is now statutory. That's $300 million. NOK extra to that scheme from next year. There is much more to freedom for individuals. Resource-intensive users had to rescue the Left and Christian People's Party from – 214 million. kr. That's half a billion dollars for those who need the most help in our society. I am very pleased that the Left and Christian People's Party is the difference in the Storting that makes it possible for us to give priority to those who need it the most. In the future, we will also be discussing public health, the school health service, on which the representative Karin Andersen was involved. I've been to Kongswinger myself lately. I have been to Gjøvik, in my own municipality, which is now in the process of receiving grants to its first municipal psychologist. This shows that we don't have to label the ear. There is actually money, and there is will when opportunities are put at the disposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1973	Karin Andersen had once again a greeting to me in his post in connection with the fact that I was able to use the word «professional and objective criteria» once again. I should like to stress that, of course, all politics, but there has been a tradition in Norway that when one discusses the income system in the municipalities, there is one element. The one thing is the expense bias, for which it has our tradition is professionally based. There is no tradition that one in this room discusses the weighting of keys and the weighting of municipalities and their different keys. What it has been a tradition for is that in politics one mainly discusses all other systems that are on the outside of the keys themselves, and that are related to separate preferences. A small municipality is one example. Other examples are district allowances in South Norway, North Norway, growth municipal contributions, which we have strengthened today, corporate taxes that one should assess next year and tax levels. The relationship between taxation and the framework is policy, and the cushioning of tax revenue in municipalities is policy. I think it's a sensible approach to have it so that we don't go into the keys and discuss them, that one accepts that there are professional assessments on the basis of how the keys have been, and then we focus on the policy when it comes to the other elements. I met this when I was a spokesperson. One was very annoyed by the criterion called educational level in the kindergarten sector. One wondered why a fisherman from Austevoll should have less need for kindergarten than a tall outgrown person in Bergen. We got answers from the sitting government that this is based on professionalism, and that politics applies to other things. I think it's a wise approach that we don't discuss the keys in detail, but discuss the policy on the outside, both when it comes to taxes and arrangements. I would also like to thank Marit Arnstad and Freddy de Ruiter for giving me the opportunity to underline once again what I said in my main post about freedom and coercion. We don't know the head again in that description of the reform as a coercive reform. It may be natural and convenient to look up page 42 of the setting, where a broad plurality, Labour Party, Right, Advance Party, Christian People's Party and Left, have a common comment. It says: ‘At the same time, the majority are concerned that there should be real voluntary participation of the municipalities involved in merger processes. If, after a thorough assessment and after obtaining views from its citizens, municipalities conclude that aggregation is not currently relevant, this is a conclusion that the majority considers it necessary to be respected.» The answer to the question from de Ruiter is that a broad majority in Stortinget is based on the voluntary line, and that the need for community reform is not a matter of making the Stortinget and the government happy, but of providing better services to its inhabitants. We must not forget it. Therefore, we trust that one shows local leadership.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e1987	I would like to start by saying thank you a thousand for the good words of several Left-Representatives, who acknowledge the Workers' Party's work in reforming and building stone on stone. It's in many ways the core of social democracy. It's so nice that someone sees it. Then I would like to thank a little bit more sourly for the introduction of what the Party programme of the Workers' Party actually means. I'm a little unsure if I share my views, but it was nice that they had read it. There are three main reasons why the Workers' Party cannot give its support to the government's municipal reform. Firstly, it is about economics. Almost all of these speakers have said that the economy is the most important basis for providing better services to citizens of municipalities. We fully agree with that. But then it's the wrong recipe not to compensate for the failure of tax revenue this year. It is the wrong recipe to have too bad municipal arrangements next year, and it is the wrong recipe in connection with the municipal reform to notify changes in the income system of the municipalities that go in the wrong direction. The second relates to trust and volunteering. When we are so concerned about volunteering related to changes in the municipal structure, because we have not programmed that we are in favour of a municipal reform, we recognise the need for changes in the municipal structure, but that recognition is based on an idea that one is locally able to assess it. This contrasts in stark contrast with the consultation proposal to put the municipalities under state administration. A proposal has been made that, to quote from the hearing note, ‘strengthens State control over the finances of municipalities. The aim is to ensure that municipalities do not implement adverse economic and strategic adaptations prior to the municipal reform.’ [[...]] [[...]] This is putting the municipalities under administration. It is to restrict local freedom of action. It could have been tempting to call it an assault – I won't do that. Today, this type of intervention, based on the law of division, is authorised to the municipalities that have started the merger. Such coercion as this is only relevant in cases where they wish to use coercion. Then I have a question to the Council of State. It is linked to the consultation note I mentioned. You've been so busy here that you want to give this law retroactive force. It is requested to enter into force on the day following the date of dispatch of the hearing note because it had not been adopted. It is mentioned in the consultation note that it is possible to do so, despite the provisions of the Basic Law in Section 97, that no law should be applied retroactively. I would like to hear the reasoning of the Council of State and the evidence for the assessment and conclusion drawn in this regard. In addition, there are other coercive elements in the reform that make it impossible for us to join it. The third point, of course, is linked to the elected regional level, where we do not perceive that there are binding formulations from the majority. Let me just end with two explanations of vote. It has been said in the past – and I repeat – that the Labour Party will vote in favour of proposal No. 16th@item: inlistbox We will also support proposal No. 27 on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2011	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice earlier in the debate, and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2014	If the government wants a majority of its municipal reform, they can remove the coercive element and remove the over-control of the municipalities' borrowings and say that you can hold on for a few more years to get this done. Then we could agree. Then it would be the same thing there, as it did when the red-green government sat. Then we would agree. Then there would be municipal mergers in many places, because there are many who want it. But they get it to sea, without the Right and the Advancement Party going to stand with a whip and say, "If you don't want to get there, you're going to do it." The second is that this assessment of these county criteria is policy. These are major distortions and the concrete proposals have not been discussed. It is wrong that such things are not discussed in Stortinget. We've discussed a lot of the criteria for kindergartens. Many of us have been very disagreeable about it, because it looks strange and is strange, and then it has to be discussed. The problem now is that the government implements this without talking to any of the people involved, entirely on its own – severe changes that cost several hundred million dollars in county municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2021	The article I kept in place has generated some new articles, including by the representative of Ingerd Schou, who was involved in the national survey. It's quite right, as the representative Ingerd Schou says, that people in big cities are more satisfied with public transport than people in small towns. It makes sense, and it shows that the population survey has a part to play. That's also the way I used to say that people in smaller municipalities are more satisfied with care for the elderly and school than people in large places. On average it is approx. equal to. But now there is no big argument for implementing a major reform to merge municipalities, because there will be no better public transport in Trysil even if the municipality is merged with Engerdal. It has to do with the geography of the two municipalities. So even if we make solid municipalities, it's not safe for so many more buses to go on Ilseng where I live. There are other reasons for that, it has to do with the population base. So there's one more thing that Ingerd Schou says that's pretty interesting to notice. She says that people are so much more satisfied with their services in small municipalities, because these have so much greater income than large municipalities. What do you say? Well, it is said that services are too good today in the small municipalities, because today there are too high incomes in many small municipalities – through small municipal subsidies, through incomes, and by other means. These are pure words for money – one believes that schools and care and care in small places are too good, and that they have come too favourably into the income system when compared with larger places. It never seemed right to say in the election campaign – that they thought it was wrong that in many small places in Norway we have an extra school because we want services close to where people live. It is also one of our main arguments against this reform. We know that the only way to save money through a municipal reform is to put down services, for a place between 70 pst. and 80 pst. the revenues of municipalities are used for care and care, for the heavy welfare services. But then the Right must be honest and say it – that they think it is too expensive to have care, have school and have kindergarten in small places too. Instead, they call it a democratic reform. It is a centralisation reform. And that's exactly what Ingerd Schou gave expression instead. Then there is one more thing that I think is wonderful in this debate. That's how you don't take over what's happened in Denmark. Everyone uses it as an example. If you go in and look at the numbers there, the proportion going to the administration today is higher than before the reform. It should take Jan Tore Sanner and others over, and travel to Denmark, meet those who have analysed the reform, and see if the proportion has gone up or down. The point is that the municipal sector in Denmark has generally fallen, but the share of the operating budget going to administration is now higher than before the reform. This is a centralisation reform, it is not a democracy reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2033	In Oppland we have many rapporteurs who are in the process. They've started a dialogue, and they're willing to, I think, assess all the changes that can provide citizens with better services. There are many rapporteurs who have taken local leadership – there is a great deal of respect for it. I myself have participated in a process, quite enough ten years ago, at home in Valdres, where I argued warmly for a municipal merger. It's been 10 years. But this kind of debate arouses strong feelings, and there are shared opinions. Now, too, the signals from many of our rapporteurs are out there that you might need some more time. Only nine out of 48 inland rapporteurs are likely to agree before the deadline expires. Then I agree with the KS leader in Uppland, Bjørn Iddberg, who says: ‘There is a need for more time for public investigations and maturation’. It is a clear signal from the country’s leading populace, and if it is that the government has confidence in local democracy and is serious about it, one must also listen. I understand that there is a difference between a deadline and «into eternity» that the Right in a way launches as an alternative, but is it not possible to reconsider the deadlines that have been set? I think it's signals we're going to take seriously. Then it is that the economic incentives have to a large extent always been there, with disaggregations and one-off subsidies, but they have to be removed when the reform period of the government is over. It confirms the concern we have had about coercion, and that it is not serious to use the word 'trust'. This is obviously to be driven through, and those municipalities that do not merge, they are to be punished by losing their income. I guess I'll have a tip for the Sanner Council. Yesterday we dealt with the agricultural situation here in Stortinget, and then the Right and Advance Party and the majority voted to centralise a system of local management of rural development funds. Then they said centralization is equal to simplification. I think that is also problematic – that many municipalities in Valdres and Nord-Gudbrandsdalen are taken into account. If Sanner is serious about moving tasks down, you took a step in the wrong direction yesterday. I recommend the Council of State to take a talk with the Minister of Agriculture, so maybe you can sort it out. It would at least create a good mood where I come from, and perhaps a greater eagerness to discuss aggregation further.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2049	The Labour Party will actually have a municipal reform, but for some reason one will not be on the move. And there's no doubt that what we're doing today is that we're confirming in the form of decisions the intermediate level. There's no doubt about it after this day. Then there is no doubt that what the Central Party wants in this debate is to disinform. I am from the neighbouring municipality to the municipality that the representative Arnstad mentions – with 7,000 inhabitants. The sustainability over time is not certain there, but what surprises me the most is that the representative Schlagsvold Vedum thus talks down the smallest municipalities. I'm from such a small municipality. I'm not sure all the services we have there are good enough, but of course the corresponding services are other places. But talking down the smallest, which is what the Center Party is doing all the time making them poor, I don't think anyone's earned.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2058	The representative Heidi Greni has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor for a brief comment of up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2061	When it comes to talking down the small municipalities, it would have to be the ones that put similarities between robust and big that talk down the small municipalities. For me, a robust municipality is a municipality that provides good services and that has good financial management – not necessarily a municipality that has many inhabitants. But what I took the floor to comment on was Njåstad's posts, where he could guarantee that the local processes were respected, and that it should not be coercive. It stands in stark contrast to the answer I received from the Council of State in the Questionnaire for a while back, when I asked about this, because he was very clear that it was relevant to coercion. If there were three municipalities that discussed the merger, where two of the three would, and the latter would not, then it was time for the Stortinget to make a coercion decision. And it says in the proposition: ‘The government plans to promote an overall proposition to the Stortinget on a new municipal structure in spring 2017’.» So I repeat my question: what are we going to do with an overall proposition to the Storting on the coercion of municipalities if this is not a coercion reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2073	The representative, Frank J. Jensen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2076	From the Right, we have made it quite clear that in order to ensure future, good services in all municipalities to ensure that more municipalities can be good and strong community developers in the future and to ensure that we get a local community sector with greater local freedom of action and less state control, we need a municipal reform. So I think we have justified why we want a community reform. What is alarming in some of the last posts is, in particular, what we have heard from the Center Party, which implies that you are in favour of community mergers – of course if they are voluntary. But if you ignore the process, we haven't heard a single word from the Center Party about why you're for community mergers. What challenges is the Central Party facing that require community mergers? We haven't heard a single word about that. So I can sum up that we are in favour of a municipal reform, and we can justify why. The centre party says they're in favour of a municipal reform, but has really no reason for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2083	During Frank Jensen's posts ran me in memory of my old professor of history at the university, who, when he couldn't explain why politicians did what they did, said, "They had probably a reason, dear students, but no good reason was enough. I come from a very small municipality – 3 500 inhabitants. When I was on my first course for municipal government representatives at the age of 17, old people sat around the table and told me about the growth and development in the municipality. They remembered that the first municipal government meetings were in the rapporteur’s large room and that the municipal fund was a physical fund under the guise of the rapporteur, in the crow. We still have the same municipal structure as when old people could tell me what it was like to be a municipal politician. I want to explain why we want to have a municipal reform – I will not underestimate what the others want. I believe that the status quo undermines our democracy. I don't think we're going to save a penny on doing that, but we're going to do it because our local democracy needs it. We need to recruit more professionals. We need young people who want to go home to work. And you don't go home to a 20 pst. job as a librarian. You don't get the best librarians in Norway to go home if there are 20 pst. or 30 pst. jobs, or if there are principal jobs where you have a lot of administration and you don't have a principal who can help you, which means that you can't feel that you can do the principal's job as pedagogical head of a group of teachers, which is what a principal should be – and not the financial officer and the big budget worker. I come from a small municipality where what undermines democracy over time are stability assessments. Many people mistrust decisions made in public bodies because it gets so close, so little, that it over time undermines it. I also believe it is important to have a reform to look at how to attract new people and new structures. Then I have to be an Oslo politician and as one who also knows many small municipalities, because I've grown up in one, just compare a little bit. I think maybe the assessment of satisfaction is a little bit like comparing lobster and canary. If you are in a small municipality and if you have questions about the health care service is good, you should consider whether it is considered that the neighbouring centre is doing a good job. That's what you see most of the time. It is known that she is busy, that there are small resources – but she manages it within the small resources. It's impressive and great. If you're in a big city and you see a hospital manager who doesn't have time to do his job, you complain. I think that the proximity to services does not make it possible to compare satisfaction with services. I think you should respect the fact that in cities you might have a little more tradition of complaining than you have the tradition of patting people on your shoulders.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2100	I drew myself when I saw that the debate was coming to an end. I see that more people have drawn themselves. Nevertheless, it is time to thank you for a good debate. It's got a good temperature. It's also been the big lines. I particularly noticed Ingjerd Schou, who drew history from 200 years ago. Then we've been down on the very simple things – with a big exchange of words between me and Karin Andersen about cost keys. I'm going to say my last words about cost keys. Of course, they're going to be discussed in this room, but my point is that adjusting to a decimal doesn't have our tradition. I hope that there will be no tradition in this room either. I have noticed with pleasure that all the parties have spoken positively about municipal mergers. The highlight of the debate was when Heidi Greni said that the Senterpartiet is in favour of municipal convergence. With that all the parties have said something positive, and it's fun to register. Karin Andersen said she can be positive to the whole reform, just we put the whip away. It's a little hard to put away something that's not included. I feel that the criticism of much of our policy is that one is against something that we are not too, and then it becomes a little difficult to discuss. I hope you read the comments and see what the plurals actually say. What I think is the main message from here today is that there is a broad majority that says it's natural to start in 2014. It's the government party, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Labour Party. The impression is left behind, and local politicians have to pay attention to it. With this, it's a historic day that for the first time in 50 years we're going to have a municipal reform. We enter a time when one will nominate the municipal elections in 2015. The fact that we have started a process, a reform, and that we are strengthening the position of local authorities makes local policy interesting. I hope that from this level we can also help to make local politics interesting, so that people are motivated to stand on a list and take on important work in local government and county councils at the 2015 elections. If we take a look, we see that Norwegian municipalities have enormous tasks – and they have a chance, they have room for action, they can give priority. We'll give them a robust setup next year. Being a local politician in a municipality means a difference. One can make a difference. You can get involved. If we compare ourselves with our neighbours and with the rest of Europe, Norwegian municipalities have a large portfolio and are an important arena, something we're going to fence about. That is why I hope that the impression left behind by this debate is that Norwegian municipalities are well-equipped, and that from the fall of this year they have received an important mission from a solid majority: to discuss future statements. Good luck to all local politicians with the important task!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2115	I record that the representative Frank Jensen and the municipal minister Sanner believe that the bill on state approval of borrowings, leases and location is a non-case. But the regime that is now being proposed is a very strong commitment of municipalities and city authorities across the country. The Government acquires sovereign control of all the main decisions to be taken by the municipalities over the next three years. It's not to be trusted. It's a long way to start dismantling local democracy – at least large parts of it. This means that the Workers' Party is an unnecessary intervention. We have a completely different attitude. We trust that city government representatives and local government representatives will not override the economy on the basis of a reform debate. Therefore, I would like to repeat that the government's municipal reform scheme, as we see it here, bears a strong impact on real coercive elements. That more people who are not members of the Workers' Party, from this pulpit quote from the Workers' Party's party program, I think it's just fine. That's sensible public information. It makes clear in an excellent way the differences between the position of the Workers' Party and that of the Government in this debate. I also live in a small municipality, with over 3,500 inhabitants. I have strong confidence that those who live in my municipality, Marker, will deal with this reform debate in a very good and tidy way. And we're going to answer the questions in a very good and tidy way, without being forced and whipped, as you do now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2124	The representative, Marit Arnstad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2127	The representative Jensen asked what was going to happen that the centre party could go in for municipal mergers. We've said that in each article. It's that one initiates it locally, that local democracy wants it, sees itself served with it. It is the dynamic that should determine municipal mergers, as well as based on volunteering and referenda. So to Njåstad: I've read page 41 of the setting, and I've also read the continuation, where it says – in a comment from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left – that the Storting should be able to make decisions that differ from local decisions. It means that the moment of tension is whether the Christian People's Party is going to hold on to volunteering or yield to coercion. What Njåstad says, is a little in contrast to what the council actually said in the questionnaire, and has said to the Central Party, where he has given the example that if one of the three municipalities says no, the third municipality should not ‘close’ for municipal aggregation – that is one of these new orders, a new definition, but it is actually forced to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2137	The debate is coming to an end, but I only have a few comments. First, Mr Lauvås. In the case of borrowings, the big question is what makes the Workers' Party think it would be sensible to implement such a scheme when a regional reform was to be implemented, while they believe that it is the closest thing to put the municipalities under administration when we are going to implement the same thing when we are going to have a major municipal reform. This may well show – as we have seen in other contexts as well – that the Workers' Party has one standard for itself when they are in position, and another when they are in opposition. This is about avoiding good neighbours getting into trouble with money when merging municipalities, not controlling where kindergartens and schools are to be built. I have also received a question from Freddy de Ruiter that relates to what you do if not all the municipalities agree. The response to this is reflected in the referral by the Committee, where the cooperation parties and the Workers' Party are united and say that exceptions to this principle of volunteering could nevertheless be relevant in very special situations where individual municipalities are not required to stop changes that are appropriate for regional reasons. In other words, the government parties, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Workers' Party agree on these questions, and I am pleased about that. The fact that the rhetorical exercises at the end of the debate are a little bit more important, I think we can all live with, but for the municipalities, the reality is that today a broad political majority is manifesting for reform, for start-up to the harvest, for the objectives and for the economic instruments. It is important for the municipalities that are now going to start. That means that I will soon take the initiative towards the County and KS to bring down the regional and county organisations that will facilitate good local and regional processes. That means I'm now going to invite the municipalities to join in on what's one of the greatest welfare reforms in the last 50 years. Now is the time to show political leadership nationally and locally. Many rapporteurs, many local politicians show that leadership, looking a little further ahead than next year's municipal elections, are committed to creating good welfare offers for their citizens. We can learn some of the reforms in other countries, but our community reform stands out because our reform is not about saving money, it is about creating well-being. Because we face a number of challenges that do not go ahead, the municipalities also address these challenges, and the government and the majority of the population will play together with the municipalities to get the welfare and democracy reform in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2150	I hear it's time for confessions about where you've grown up and lived. For my part, I have lived both in urban municipalities and in small municipalities, and I still live in a small municipality. In my small municipality, with 5,000 inhabitants, it is now – the last time I counted above – 38 intercommunal companies and other companies. Over time – over several decades – there have been more and more intercommunal companies to solve the tasks that naturally belong to a municipality. Over time, there has also been more and more government control. It undermines democracy, and it also leads to the need to look at the municipal structure, it is highly required. When I took the floor now, it was quite simply to say that several of the representatives in the hall have been in Denmark, so when I heard the representative, Schlagsvold Vedum, it might be good to say that in our work on municipal reform, we can also focus on how to build a strong local autonomy and ensure good welfare services in the coming years. The Danes had to think about how much they had to save, so our and the government's reform is completely different. We're not going to do like the Danes, but we can learn not only from the mistakes, but also from the successes they've had. In Denmark, the reform has led to increased professional sustainability in municipalities and, in some areas, increased innovation in how to solve the problems and improve quality. The Danish authorities have reduced the administration of the municipalities by 1.3 billion. kr, not because they saved it, but because they have used it for better welfare services. Overall, Danish municipalities have cut costs by 1.3 billion. kr, and the local government sector reduced costs by a total of 12 billion. kr. The merged municipalities have 10 pst. lower administrative costs per capita than those not merged. It is not important in itself, but it has given municipalities the opportunity to use these means to provide better services to their citizens. In Norway, there should not be such austerity reform; it should simply be based on improving quality, robust and predictable services for the future. For us, the community reform is not about saving money, but it is about ensuring that citizens receive the services they will have in the years to come. The starting point from Denmark is that we should learn from their successes. We should also look at their faults, but the Danes had as their starting point that they should save money – that is not our starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2161	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2164	I also want to take a trip to Denmark, as it has been brought forward here. We should also remember that Denmark had this reform in front of a financial crisis, and has actually used it for active employment as well. That's one of the reasons why spending hasn't gone down too much. In addition, Denmark has introduced a regional level of hospitals and public transport. When we have visited Denmark and asked the hospital politicians if they have any contact with Norway, they say: No, who should we contact? It is also a democratic dimension of this which we are going to discuss in Norway. In addition, they introduced a ban on intercommunal companies and established an obligation to have limited liability companies. It is now their case, but at least they thought that 279 intercommunal companies were too much. In Norway, we don't know the exact number, but it's more than 5,000. There is also a significant dimension of democracy that we need to solve.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2173	The representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2176	There are two comments I have to make at the end of the debate. One is about the Left's position here in the debate, which is incredibly discouraging towards people who do not live in town. What was Trine Skei Grande saying? Well, those who live in such small communities are so much nicer to each other, so they don't dare be critical of public services, they respond more positively to public services, because it can be stressful. That was the attitude Skei Grande expressed. I mean, it's directly discouraging to think that we who sit here know so much better than those out there, because now you've lived in Oslo so many years that you know so much better than those who live in the North Dream Team. I still think it's those who live in the North Throne Team, who know best for them, and then Trine Skei Grande knows best for Oslo. So to Ingerd Schou, who brings this up with intercommunal companies. It is a fact that there are more intermunicipal companies between large municipalities than between small ones. In Inner Eastfold, between 7 and 8 pst. of the operating budget through IKS. If the problem is inter-municipal cooperation, the answer is not community merger. Then you have to go and discuss it instead of answering with a community merger when they have the most cooperation today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2183	The President appreciates the fact that the speech goes through the President and that we talk about each other as representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2186	I would first like to start by stating that the policy of Jern-Erna is back. I was the rapporteur when the Right was last in government, and I remember very well the grips of today's prime minister as a municipal minister, at the beginning of the 2000s. Yes, it was the insurrection of the rapporteur every year when she sat down. Fortunately, this became relatively short-lived, and we got a new government in 2005 which fortunately left the course. What is now happening, both in the revised and in the municipal bill, shows that you are tightening up and redistributing from the districts. We see it both for the primary municipalities and not least for the county municipalities. The figures from the municipal bill, which was presented last week, show that the new income system provides a redistribution between the very negative states in the north. When the new system is fully phased in in five years, it means a minus of 37 million. SEK in Finnmark, 107 million. kr in Troms and 225 mill. kr in the Nordic region. If the numbers from the county councils are correct, that means that the northern Norwegian states get almost 370 million. kr less to be used for well-being than at present. What happens is that the money moves from the north and the coast to the south and east. It's a dramatic redistribution that means they have to do hard cut both in the short and long term. They will have to cut service output both in terms of trade and school provision. In fact, the situation is getting even worse, because the growth in free income is intended to be lower than previously budgeted. This alone could be as much as 100 million. kr just for Nordland, and it's going to add up. In addition, we know you're also cutting in the year we're in now. Regional development funds cut 66 million. kr only for Nordland. Actually, it went a little over 30 million. kr back to the road, but they are earmarked for the road. This is actually a disaster for North Norway. Jern-Erna is back with full strength, and it seems she doesn't care about this part of the country. The new income system merges into the series of issues in which the new government struts North Norway. It's at a time when North Norway is actually growing and needs this support. The consequence of the government's arrangement is simply that there is less development in the north, and at least that's not what you've said outside, that you want. In the case of municipalities, this is also dramatic – not least when we see that one will not signal that one will compensate for the tax failure. It could be as large as 3.3 billion. kr. In addition, we know that kindergartens are underfunded, and that much of the government's investment is to be covered by the municipality's own money. Russ and psychiatry must cover the municipalities themselves. This is the taste of tax havens that will provide a great deal of welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2203	When I hear the representative Juvik at the pulpit here refer to Jern-Erna, I must say that the political memory is sometimes very, very short. It is actually no longer than when Stoltenberg was to join the prime minister for the first time in 2001, that he was chased from Finnmark because his own had rebelled against his own government. Finnmark faded, said Toril Olsen at that time and announced a revolt along the whole coast. But my point is not to go back. The focus must be on the future when we are talking today about a historical reform. We have to be able to search together on important questions. But the right one should be right. This government has invested significantly in the north and has also provided an important and good basis for further growth through reform measures that have an impact on the business environment. Only in 2014 the county councils in North 260 million. kr in increased operational frameworks to invest in county roads. Already in the municipal bill, new, fresh millions have been notified to these county roads. This means a great deal for nutrient growth and for the framework conditions for rural businesses to enter the market. Not enough with that. The government also makes significant national efforts through national roads. In fact, over one billion have already been delivered. in increased appropriations for a number of projects in the north: Helgeland, the Harstad package, Alta and the Churchnes. These are projects that have increased government funding, which have managed to support progress, and which contribute to ensuring that we get good infrastructure in the north. Then it becomes a little strange, when you've been a state politician before you ended up here, to sit and listen to a story that you don't know about the conversion that was announced. In fact, work was started in 2005, and when I myself was in the county municipality of Troms, there were economic agents from the county administration who went to collections here in Oslo, just to get updated on these new keys and to convert the income system. And they warned that this would mean changes, and that we had to be prepared that it would be tough thanks. But again, the most important thing is to look forward. The most important thing is to look at how we invest to take out creativity and potential. In this way, I believe that the government delivers on structure – through the municipal reform – but also on investment, that is. on the road and through framework conditions for tax relief.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2214	The representative, Eirik Sivertsen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2217	The representative of Skkelstad says that the Workers' Party will have a municipal reform. Let me then just be quite clear, as also several of the Right Representatives are trying to make it like that. The Labour Party is for changes in the municipal structure, we are for local initiative, and we are for volunteering. But we do not want a community reform at all costs. We have been clear in this debate on what basis we can support a solution. The government does not comply with that basis. The parties in Stortinget have not met us. Then we cannot give our support to the government's approach to municipal reform. That should be quite clear to everyone. I had a question to the Council of State as to what was the basis for assessing that the restrictions on borrowing from municipalities could circumvent the Basic Law § 97. I record that the Council of State chose not to respond to it. I am once again trying to get an answer from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2225	The representative of Geir S. Tskedal has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2228	The centre party at the representative Marit Arnstad was excited about how the Christian People's Party volunteered to do this. It's true that we're involved in the comment, but we're aware that geography is such in Norway that it becomes too simple to say: if it's one of three or one of four, we go ahead. We're not going to do that. Of course, we're going to evaluate each case, and the volunteer that's behind it. But for us, services are more important than borders. The focus is on citizens and it is important to get strong professional environments. It's very important in the districts! Now that major cities and agglomerations are strengthened, it is particularly important for district municipalities to see if they can position themselves better. The Sivertsen of the Labour Party cannot be involved because of economics and non-compulsory wording, but this is a reform that is underway, and now we are going to think 50 years in advance – not how we have had it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2237	The representative Stein Erik Lauvås has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2240	When the Minister of State from the Right talks about double standards, there is every reason to listen. That's right because it's pretty good to keep up with and to use as it suits them. I think that the municipal minister should have enough political courage to stand up because he actually wants to force municipal mergers, just as the Labour Party stands up for us wanting real volunteering in any municipal mergers. It had cleared up the debate on double standards.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2247	I should perhaps be reassured by the answers I have received from the Right and the Advance Party on volunteering, but I am not. When I start reading the setting, I see very clearly that here it is double communicated, perhaps especially from the Right. One makes exceptions and has also made exceptions in special situations, which are the wording, to the more general in the earlier debate. I notice that there has been some change in that. I want to quote from page 43 in the setting, where the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party say: ‘These members will ask the government to make a real voluntary contribution to the merger process, and will not suggest that there will be restrictions on those who do not follow the government’s arrangements.’ It's important. Another important clarification from a little further down on the same page is: ‘These members consider it necessary to determine locally whether referendums are to be held. These members have confidence that local democracy and its citizens know their own best.» That's an important clarification. I fear that one does not provide clear and clear signals about this before the roll-out in 2017. I fear that the government does not have enough courage to show the Norway Map, but may try to do so after 2017. I think that if you don't want to respect and support local referendums, you have to make this clear at the 2017 elections, so that the voters have a real alternative. The Minister of Local Affairs has not answered if you are willing to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2268	There are a few questions that have been raised in connection with, among other things. the legality of the loan arrangement. Of course, it has been evaluated. As I have also pointed out in the debate, we have laid the groundwork for the red-green government in the run-up to the regional reform. So the representative Freddy de Ruiter said that you have to decide locally whether to have a referendum or not. Yes, of course – it's a local decision. We have seen that in some municipal mergers there has been a referendum, and by others it has not been. Municipalities should hear their citizens, and they can choose how to do so. We are now developing an option to give municipalities a tool bag, where they can also ask their citizens to get a broader decision-making base. But these are local decisions. There is a broad political consensus in this Chamber that there should be a reform that is well-established locally and based on volunteering. The Government Parties and the Workers' Party also agree on a derogation from that main line. I must also say a few words to Kjell-Idar Juvik, who spoke of a disaster for North Norway. In this case, too, I believe that you can relate to the realities to your advantage. In the case of North Norway, we're going to allocate 200 million. kr to county roads in 2014. All the counties will have more money for the next year than they get this year, and that means that there will also be an opportunity to expand a good service offer. We have now put in place a differentiated employer's fee scheme. I find that Nordlyn in the lead position had the headline: «The government has listened». It's not often that North Light in the leadership position boasts of the government. We have listened to business in the north, we have listened to state politicians in the north, we have listened to local politicians in the north, and we are now getting a good order in place, which helps us to invest even more in infrastructure in the Nordic states. In addition, as Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, I have placed great emphasis on opening up business in North Norway. That is why I have made sure mining in Kvalsund can now be started. The Workers' Party was unable to achieve this in cooperation with SV and the Center Party. The jobs and value creation mean more for Finnmark than the municipal and regional development funds. I have also agreed to the first regulation plan for the Lemmmerese at the Kirkenes. These nutrient projects are of great importance for growth and development in North Norway — and they are also the best district policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2281	Both the representative Kent Gudmundsen and the minister talked a lot about the big effort on the road in the north. I know very well about the extra money that has been allocated to road in the north. To call it a big bet I think is an exaggeration. Gudmundsen framed a lot of projects, but there are projects in the NTP. That's the red-green projects he rammed up. It is true that the new government has gone into and looked at the financing of some of those projects, but they haven't put any further effort into doing so – that's just the way they're going to finance it. It's not another penny that's useful to the municipalities when you do it that way. There will be no more road, but a tax haven for the drivers. It brings me to the next point. That's that you showed that you had at least got tax cuts. Yeah, we're aware of that. And we also see the result. It leads to welfare protection. This is probably one of the reasons – we will see when time goes on – for increasing tax losses, which we may not be so surprised at. It's probably because you've given big tax cuts. Then there'll be less money in the system, and it'll be smaller for the municipalities. Maybe you don't have to be a rocket scientist to figure that out. I am aware that it is serious, and that the warning lights are flashing red in the way the government handles North Norway. It shall boast of a good part of the measures put in place under the RDA scheme. Many of them are good and accurate – if you want to fund them fully. We'll see about that. It's not all you can hit. The transport sector, the freight sector, we know that we are being hit, because good schemes are difficult to find. One cannot escape being cut into regional development funds. It's not to be overlooked that there's a problem with the RDA system. You can't help but notice that the new income system is going to hit North Norway. It amazes me that the representative from the Right of Troms stands and defends Jern-Erna's policy. In any case, this will not be applauded in the municipalities, which are supposed to make these offers well-being. So to something that might be equally serious. It is that you want to put all municipalities on the ROBEK list – you have to put them all under control. Why do you do that? Why do we have the ROBEK list today? It's because you want more control and more control. Now you want to do it with all the municipalities. This means that you do not have the confidence that the municipalities will handle it in a phase where you are forced to merge. I think you should notice that. Many people have said that you should not look back. But, of course, it was back in 2001 when they tried to criticise the Workers' Party. If I do not remember correctly, it was useful with the uprising of the rapporteur, because then more money was transferred to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2298	The representative, Freddy de Ruiter, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2301	This process is reminiscent of voluntary coercion. I think it's a little uncomfortable embrace the government parties are trying to face the Workers' Party. Speaking of the local government's response to this with local referendums, I don't expect the government to have anything against it if each local government decided to hold local referendums. In fact, I expect the same local government to respect it. The question is whether the municipal minister and the government will respect local referendums.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2308	There were two questions that came up at the end, first from Kjell-Idar Juvik, who are trying to repeat a claim, and it is not going to be more correct by repeating it, namely that the government would like to put all the municipalities on the ROBEK list. No, the government should not put all the municipalities on the ROBEK list. This is not about law enforcement, nor is it about putting under administration, but it is about the same system that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre implemented when they had ambitions about regional reform. That's what this is all about. So to the representative Freddy de Ruiter, who asks whether the government will respect municipal referendums. I have answered that by referring to the comment that the Workers' Party shares with the four cooperation parties, namely that this should be based on volunteering and have good local anchoring, but that there are also exceptions to that rule. The Labour Party and the Cooperation Parties stand together, and I am pleased about that. I am also pleased that there is now a broad majority who say yes to reform, which says yes to start-up in August, which says yes to the objectives of the reform, which says yes to the financial instruments. It gives the municipalities that are about to start, a very good starting point for the local debates. I am also pleased that the representatives of the Labour Party have stressed in this debate that the rapporteurs and local politicians of the Labour Party will act constructively. I don't need to say that, because I know they do. I have now traveled across Norway and met many local politicians from the Labour Party and the other parties, and it is now a will to get this debate started and show the local leadership that is necessary. This is about how to facilitate good welfare for our citizens in the decades to come, and it's about local democracy. And I look forward to both the local debates and also new opportunities to discuss this matter with the parties in Stortinget. This is not the last time we discuss it; this is the beginning, and there will be many opportunities in the future to discuss both tasks and progress in the reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2317	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2331	I don't need 30 minutes in this case, so the president can only call voting. There is a standard procedure for the Storting of each of us to adopt changes in the state budget due to the wage settlement. LO Stat, YS Stat, UNIO and the academics came to an agreement with the state during the mediation of the year’s wage settlement. The provided frame has a 3.3 pst. and thus represents a wage increase within the framework of the competitive sector. The Committee has no comments on the proposal and recommends adopting the resulting setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2340	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2346	Then Stortinget is ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2354	A total of 27 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-6, by Helga Pedersen, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 7, by Helga Pedersen, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Central Party, 8-10, by Helga Pedersen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, 11-17, by Heidi Greni, on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left, 18-20, by Heidi Greni, on behalf of the Central Party, proposals Nos. 21-25, by Karin Andersen, on behalf of the Socialist Left, proposal No. 26, from Helge André Njåstad on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 27, from André N. Skelstad on behalf of the Right, the Party of Christian Peoples and the Left First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 21–25, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 21 sounds: «The total income of the local government sector shall be between 8,3 and 8,8 billion. crowns for 2015.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: «The growth of the free income of the municipal sector shall be between 6,2 and 6,5 billion. crowns for 2015.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government of the State budget for 2015 asks the government to propose a corresponding national loan scheme for municipal and county buildings that the Municipality of Oslo provided to phase out fossil oil firing.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish a financing mechanism for local climate action to support municipalities and county councils in implementing climate-friendly conversion processes.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government of the State budget for 2015 and of the municipal economy for 2016 is asked to provide the necessary State co-financing so that municipalities can achieve their greenhouse gas reduction target and make the necessary climate adaptations.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2419	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 18 to 20, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 18 sounds: «The government is asked to take into account in its draft government budget for the autumn that the growth of the total income of the municipal sector is between 7.5 and 8 billion. crowns for 2015.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: «The government is asked to take into account in its draft government budget for the autumn that the growth in the free income of the municipal sector is between 6 3⁄4 and 7 1⁄4 billion. crowns for 2015.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: «The government is asked to come back with proposals for a loss compensation scheme for the new income system for county municipalities, which on a permanent basis mitigates the distribution effect between counties. Reference is made to alternative proposals for the government model submitted by Sogn and Fjordane County Council at the hearing of the Municipal and Management Committee on 20 May, alternative to the current income guarantee scheme.»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2446	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11–15 and 17, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to identify the importance of municipalities for their settlement throughout the country and the consequences of proposals for major changes in the municipal structure. The results of this work are presented to the Stortinget as the basis for the work on reforms in the municipal sector.’.» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a review of the division of tasks between administrative levels with proposals for the decentralisation of responsibilities to the lowest effective level. All state-initiated processes for changes in the municipal structure must be suspended until the division of tasks between municipalities, county councils and the state has been adopted by Stortinget.» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to set up a public body to review the scope and impact of government governance in the local government sector and to propose simplifications of government governance, reporting and resolution framework.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to cover the lump sum and reform aid granted to merged municipalities outside the ordinary income framework of the local government sector.’;» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assume that the income system of the county municipalities remains unchanged in 2015 and that the government facilitates a good process, with consultations and consultations with the county before proposing changes to the income system, is promoted in the municipality proposal for 2016.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asking that the increase in the municipal growth grant be financed by a corresponding increase in the municipal framework so that the scheme does not lead to reductions for municipalities that do not achieve the growth grant.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2489	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8-10, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 8 reads: ‘The government asks the government to base its draft government budget for 2015 for the autumn that the growth in the free income of the municipal sector should be between 5.7 and 6.0 billion. crowns for 2015.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a separate establishment of a regionally elected level in the capital area. The aim is to merge the minimum Oslo and Akershus County Municipality, possibly also larger parts of the Capital Region. The Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, together with the County Council of Oslo and Akershus, shall have a specific responsibility for this process.’;» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government, together with the county councils, is asked to go through the municipal cost keys and the proposed loss compensation scheme in a thorough manner and to refer the matter back to the Grand Duchy in the context of the State budget for 2015.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2516	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to maintain the system of municipal co-financing for the specialist health service.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2533	There is a vote on proposal No. 16, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking that the realisation of the holiday relief project on the county roads does not lead to a reduction in the transfers during the first 40 years after the start of the operation.’ The Labour Party has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2552	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–6, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to compensate the local government for the 2015 government budget if the tax revenue in 2014 is lower than provided for in the State budget for 2014. Compensation shall take into account cost growth and population growth.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government is asked to ensure that the share of the tax in total municipal income and the symmetric balance of the municipal income system is maintained at the current level. [[40 pst.]] [[60 pst.]] The current scheme whereby municipalities do not receive a share of the corporation tax is retained.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The Government is asking the Government to grant economic instruments to merging municipalities without a time limit for aggregation.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to withdraw the bill for state approval by the county of municipal borrowings and long-term leases.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the necessary legislative proposals which, irrespective of municipal or non-municipal operations, ensure full transparency around key quality indicators, including the manning situation, in the provision of services for which the municipalities are responsible.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking that the reimbursement scheme for municipal expenditure on child protection measures relating to lone minor asylum seekers be maintained as a separate scheme.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2595	There is a vote on proposal No. 26, from the Right, the Party of Advancement. Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size finds that there are not multiples for the Right and the Advance Party’s primary position on two elected levels, cf. these parties make their observations on the matter. The majority further refers to the joint comment on the matter from the members of the Right, the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, where it appears that, in parallel with the municipal reform, government needs to review and compile investigations into the current intermediate level and see them in conjunction with the reform without delaying the work of the municipal reform of the primary municipalities. The size confirms that the review of the tasks of the municipalities must include the tasks to be assigned to a local/middle/minor county level.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2610	There is a vote on proposal No. 27, from the right, from the forepart, from the Christian people, and from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to come back with an assessment of the financing of the Bratsberg Railway in connection with the State budget for 2015.’ The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2650	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Helga Pedersen, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 4, from Helga Pedersen on behalf of the Workers' Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the government’s expert committee assesses how today’s state regional breakdown in different areas corresponds to today’s county breakdown. The sample shall also assess which tasks larger regions can take over from the country. This is included in the mandate of the Committee of Experts.’.» The Socialist Left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2677	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for further work to be done on the community reform to ensure that the regional elected level has a job portfolio at least at the present level.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that regionally elected levels continue to be responsible for secondary education and therefore that trials are not carried out on the transfer of this task to the municipalities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2706	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, which reads: ‘The government is asking the government to base its work on the reform of the municipality on maintaining an administrative three-level model in Norway with elected governance at regional level.’ So it is the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left that are behind the position, while the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party are behind the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-18.ana.ud744e2869	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - Good summer party! The meeting has been cancelled!
