ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-08.ana.ud1398e22	The representative of Pål Farstad, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-08.ana.ud1398e33	The representative, Knut Storberget, will put forward three representative proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-08.ana.ud1398e36	On behalf of the representatives of Odd Omland, Hege Haukeland Liadal, Arild Grande and myself, I would like to make representations to ensure the labelling of origin on food and to establish a daily food portal. On behalf of the representatives of Else-May Botten, Mr Ingvild Kjerkol and myself, I would like to promote the proposal of representatives to ensure competitive framework conditions in the dairy sector. Finally, on behalf of the representatives of Else-May Botten, Arild Grande, Ingvild Kjerkol and myself, I would like to promote the proposal to legislate for good commercial practices in order to ensure important consumer interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-08.ana.ud1398e45	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-08.ana.ud1398e57	Norway is a good country to live in. Compared to most other countries, we have better opportunities to shape a good future for our children and grandchildren. At the same time, we have the opportunity to make everyday life easier for people living today. We have no guarantee that good development will continue. Therefore, we must not only ensure that the next year is better for the citizens, but we must also facilitate good development in the years to come. The proposal for the 2015 government budget is about addressing key societal challenges and facilitating future Norway. Next year's budget reflects the fact that we have a new government with new political priorities. The government is helping to increase the growth of the economy so that new, good jobs can be created. At the same time, we are strengthening the most important welfare areas. We propose to significantly increase investment, as we said in the Sundvolden platform. We make political choices to build the country for the future. At the same time, we also need to solve challenges in people's everyday lives now. Therefore, the government has found room to invest in both transport, health, knowledge, municipalities, justice and preparedness. We also strengthen the social security network for people who don't have it as well as most of us, for example. in health care and psychiatry. We prioritise this because we have great ambitions on behalf of the country’s citizens – ambitions to increase security, strengthen the security network, give citizens greater freedom and improve the welfare community. Humans do not live their lives in tables, graphs or calculations. We live our lives with family, friends and colleagues, with our own dreams, our own goals and our own challenges. The A4 doesn't exist. We're all different. The government's policy is therefore not about directing people's lives from cradle to grave, but about giving people the opportunity to make their own choices for themselves and their families. The Government and the Storting shall establish a framework that contributes to the creation of good jobs, which creates security for life, health and property and freedom for people to make their own choices. Society is created by all individuals who live their unique lives every day. This budget contributes to the creation of a strong and sound framework, with a policy of economic responsibility. We are making sure to strengthen well-being and growth. It is in this way that we politicians can contribute to giving people freedom and security in everyday life. Although Norway is going well, there are some clouds in the horizon. We've had low productivity growth in the last eight years. There are signs that demand from the oil sector will slow down. Therefore, it is important to give Norwegian enterprises better framework conditions so that they can compete with foreign enterprises. Contributing to good jobs is both good social policy and a prerequisite for building on our welfare society. The weak development of the world economy in recent years shows that it takes a long time to recover from a financial crisis. In the euro area, economic activity is still lower than before the financial crisis. While interest rates are very low, banks in many countries have little capacity to increase their lending. In most places, investment is still low. However, the growth of our trading partners is approaching normal levels. The unemployment outside can then go down a little. But the uncertainty is still great. Developments in the Middle East and Ukraine have been a source of new unrest. The restrictive measures against Russia, and the countermeasures, can dampen growth. If there is a marked setback in China and other emerging economies, it will hit global growth and bring down the prices of oil and other commodities. Compared to other countries, Norway has been fortunate in recent years, and there are several factors that have contributed to it: The prices of oil and other exports have been high, while the prices of what we have imported have been low. The high oil price has contributed to an increase in activity on the Norwegian base, which has given rise in industries supplying to the oil sector. Households' consumption and investment has been raised by high growth in income and a loan wave supported by low interest rates. Housing prices have risen rapidly. Increased use of oil revenues over the state budget and large amounts of debt in municipalities have also raised the activity of the economy. Good growth has slowed unemployment in Norway to below a third of the level in Europe. The counterpart of the high activity and low unemployment is that the cost level has increased by 30 pst since the millennium. more with us than with our trading partners. The situation has become more severe for companies fighting hard international competition. The high cost level also makes it difficult to reap the fruits of economic development a little better in the countries around us. Many companies have turned to the oil sector. But the downwind of the oil sector has given the Norwegian economy, now seems to be decreasing. Information from the companies suggests that oil investments will fall next year. Moreover, as costs have been raised, oil companies have increasingly moved out of Norway. Many have been notified that the company they work for will reduce manning. But the expansion of the Johan Sverdrup field and other expansions can help to increase the activity a little after 2015. We have to prepare, however, for the activity on the base over time to be lower. The recent fall in oil prices underlines this. Gradually, many of the companies currently supplying this sector will have to find new markets or convert production into other types of goods and services. High productivity growth and good adaptability go hand in hand. It is therefore serious that productivity growth has fallen from 2006. Some of the weaker growth has to be seen in conjunction with the economic cycle, but not all. Aspects of a more lasting nature also appear to have contributed. Investments in mainland enterprises have been low over several years. At the same time, low productivity service industries have grown with labour supply from new EU countries. Since 2004, two out of three new employees have come from work immigration. Of course, immigration has strengthened the ability of industry to produce, but it has also increased the pressure on infrastructure and public services, from housing via transport and municipal services to the justice sector. Experiences from Ireland, Iceland and Spain show that such labour immigration is cyclical and rapidly reversible. Something similar can happen with us. Nevertheless, it is uncertain whether workers with Norwegian social security rights will return to their country of origin. The strong growth in income after the millennium and low interest rates have contributed to the high levels of debt in households and municipalities. Debt continues to grow faster than income. Together with high housing prices, there is a certain risk of financial stability. Higher equity in banks mitigates that risk. The growth of the mainland economy in 2015 is estimated to be around 2 pst. It is roughly in line with last year and the estimate for this year, but it is slightly lower than the average for the last four decades. Growth in employment is continuing and unemployment is expected to remain low. There is little available capacity in parts of the Norwegian labour market. Ageing of the population will slow the growth of the economy in the years to come. The same trend in productivity may occur if weak developments continue in recent years. The government will facilitate a stable and good framework for the oil and gas industry. At the same time, we must be prepared that lower activity on the base will put our ability to switch to testing. The Norwegian economy must be optimally prepared for lower activity in the oil industry. Then the growth in productivity has to rise again. It is a central objective of the government's economic policy. The government’s strategy to achieve this is growth-promoting tax havens that will make working and investing profitable, a boost for knowledge, research and innovation and commitment to transport. We took significant steps in the budget for this year. We will continue in the draft budget for next year. These three areas — taxation, knowledge and transport — are precisely the three growth-promoting areas where a single financial committee considered that increased use of oil revenues should be addressed when the code of action was introduced in 2001. This government is following this to a greater extent than the previous government. The government's draft budget provides an oil money use equivalent to 3 pst. by the capital of the pension fund. The budget helps to increase demand in the mainland economy from this year to next year by 0.5 pst., the same thing as we added in the supplementary proposition. At the same time, we turn a greater proportion of oil money use into investment and growth-promoting measures, such as tax havens, knowledge, innovation and transport. Our draft budget contributes to stable economic development – both in the short and long term – and facilitates growth. The capital of the pension fund has increased rapidly in recent years. The increase was particularly large in 2013, partly because the crown weakened. Higher fund capital means that the expected fund return has also increased. This has significantly raised the so-called 4 pst. path. The strong growth in the pension fund gives Norway opportunities that few other countries have, but at the same time it has made financial policy governance more demanding. There's a great distance to the 4 pst. path, and the level can change a lot from one year to the next. The Government will therefore set up an expert committee to assess how the rules of action should be applied in such a situation and whether additional guidelines are needed. The sample shall also assess how, within the framework of the guidelines, greater account can be taken of the need to promote the growth capacity of the mainland economy. In the context of a comprehensive budgetary process in which different measures are assessed against each other, there is a need for predictable financing of investments so that they can be implemented in a good way. Therefore, in line with the Sundvolden platform, the government will also set up a sample to assess the need for multi-annual budgets in selected areas and a clearer distinction between investment expenditure and budget operations. Oil money consumption in 2015 will be equivalent to 164 billion. NOK or almost NOK 32000 per capita. Each ninth crown used over public budgets is now drawn from the pension fund. Although the use of oil money makes a loving extra contribution, the scope of action in the budget is determined primarily by the tax receipts from households and the economy of the mainland economy. Expenditure in public budgets is close to six out of ten dollars created each year in the mainland economy. The resources of the State and local authorities shall be managed with care in order to ensure the best possible performance for the citizens and in a manner that shows respect for taxpayers’ money. This government will renew, simplify and improve the public sector. Public sector reforms shall contribute to better services for citizens, increase freedom of choice and ensure the most efficient use of Community resources. Successful community reform will provide good and more equivalent services to citizens, a coherent and coordinated social development and strengthen local democracy. Sustainable and robust municipalities will facilitate more efficient resource use. Larger and more efficient municipalities, better adapted to natural housing and labour market regions, will enhance the growth capacity of the economy. It will also reduce the cost of administration and eliminate unnecessary bureaucracy. Structural reforms in the tax system, police and higher education are also important in order to achieve a more efficient public sector. The aim is better tax management, greater police force and higher education quality. Politics is not about giving a little bit more to everything. It's about prioritizing what's most important. The Government therefore proposes a reform to reduce red tape and to ensure more efficient use of Community funds. It will provide room for reducing taxes and strengthening important areas such as knowledge, police, health and care. As a permanent scheme, the government will propose an improvement in efficiency and a reduction in red tape equivalent to 0.5 pst. at the operational items in the country each year. Even if this is just 50 centimeters, it's equal to 1.4 billion. kr in 2015. Sweden and Denmark have similar arrangements, and the OECD has recommended Norway to go in this direction. This reform helps us to gradually reduce bureaucracy. The effectiveness of the public sector is increasing. Funds are released that can be used for priority actions that improve the rustiness of Norway in meeting with the future and for better services for its citizens. The bureaucracy of our society has been going on long enough. That's why I'm proud to be able to present this proposal to the Storing on behalf of the government. The digitisation of the public sector shall continue. Altin shall be extended by more services. New electronic thing lighting system is on the steps from 2016. With 1.5 million cases per year, this is one of the largest state services that are not yet fully digitised. Business also benefits from the digitalisation of more services. Since the Task Register was established in 1997, the business community is now using 40 pst. fewer annual reports on the provision of information to the administration required by law. The government wants a further decline through more digitisation and fewer and simpler forms. Better infrastructure is one of the government's most important investments and a support bar in a modern district policy. In the budget for next year, we are stepping up what we started this year. At the same time, we must give better priority to projects and implement them more effectively. It will contribute to increased socio-economic profitability in the transport sector. Effective communication will strengthen Norway’s competitiveness, facilitate the functioning of labour markets and facilitate everyday life for its citizens. Through a strong commitment to infrastructure, we are solving challenges today, and we are building the country for the future. Our businesses will come forward faster with their goods, and most people come home safely to their loved ones. The Government will increase the appropriations for the development of road and public transport more than was foreseen in the National Transport Plan. We're proposing a transfer of approximately 55 billion. kr, which is 5 billion. kr more than in the year's budget. For the road sector, the total increase is 12.4 pst. It comes to the top of that we have increased the appropriations for transportation for the current year by 1.7 billion. Compared to the proposals of the Stoltenberg Government. The government is proposing $40 billion. as new capital contributions to the infrastructure fund. The fund will be worth a total of 70 billion. kr. The government is thus far ahead of the form to increase the fund to 100 billion. kr over 4 years. It will provide more predictable funding for transport in the years to come. We also want to take better care of existing roads and lines. We suggest more for operation and maintenance. For the first time in several decades, the maintenance run on the road will be reduced. The county roads receive a significant upturn, both through increased appropriations and an increase in the borrowing framework of the interest-rate compensation scheme to 3 billion. kr. In addition, we focus on race safety and tunnel safety. With this budget proposal, there will be better train provision on Trønderbanen and Sørlandsbanen, full propulsion on Follobanen and planning of further development of intercity sections. The Government will establish a road development company during 2015. The company should expand more fully than today, give more efficient use of resources and place greater emphasis on the projects that are most profitable for society. It's going to be simpler, cheaper and better road construction. The government has flashed out three road projects in which the development is to be assessed through the use of public-private cooperation. The current projects are Tjeldsund-Langvass Bay in Nordland and Troms, Ommangsvollen–Grundset in Hedmark and Sotra Verbundet in Hordaland. Toll collection needs to be smarter. The goal is that more of the money paid in tolls should go to the projects themselves and less to pay for the financing of loans and administration. The government is therefore reforming the tolling system. As Stortinget is already known, several projects have reduced the collection of tolls. The government will also give the railway sector a more commercial organisational form and clearer objectives. The government has set down a green tax commission to propose a green tax conversion. The aim is to achieve lower greenhouse gas emissions, a better environment and good economic development. In the budget, we propose measures both nationally and internationally by stimulating Norwegian wind power generation, increasing the investment in climate technology and the conservation of rainforests. In addition, we propose to extend Enova’s scheme for increasing support for private households. We aim to ensure that the scheme will subsequently become a deduction scheme in the tax system with Enova as an approval authority. The climate challenge is global and best addressed globally. Norway shall be a driving force in the process of setting an international price for CO2 and establishing effective, functioning international carbon markets. As the cost of reducing emissions varies widely between countries, international carbon markets can help reduce emissions at least cost. It is essential to achieve adequate reductions in emissions. Security is important for the basic freedom of most people. Individuals must be able to feel safe out and in their own homes. Everyday crime must be combated. Society must respond clearly to crime and take seriously the threat of organised crime. Through a modern and efficient police force, the government will strengthen preparedness and operational capacity to combat crime. The government therefore proposes to significantly strengthen police and preparedness. It is arranged for new students from the Police College to get a job in the police department. This will contribute to a more operational and visible neighbourhood police force with the capacity to prevent, investigate and prosecute criminal acts. More lawyers shall be recruited, the appointment of the higher prosecution authority shall be increased and more posts shall be established in the courts. Overall, measures contribute to greater capacity and better balance throughout the criminal justice chain. At the same time, when police, prosecutors and courts become more effective, settlement capacity must be sufficient. We will expand this capacity and establish new closed prisons in Kongsvinger, Hustad, Bergen and Bodø. In order to improve the situation of children and young people during detention, we propose to establish a new youth unit in the East. The government will also cooperate with the Netherlands on the temporary rental of prison capacity. Lawbreakers should not be released due to lack of settlement capacity. Persons without legal residence in Norway shall leave the country quickly. For this reason, the government proposes to increase the number of forced return and assisted returns, expand the International Police Office on Trandum and set up a new exit centre at Oslo Airport. Persons legally residing in Norway shall be resettled more quickly and better integrated into the Norwegian community. The government is planning a reform of the police to get more police force out of resources. The budget for police reform is increased by 150 million. kr. The government will contribute to the country's better equipped to deal with future crises. The response time for helicopter standby at Rugge and Bardufoss is proposed to be reduced so that the helicopters can assist the police more quickly when needed. The threat to Norway has been exacerbated. The government therefore proposes to increase the capacity of the PST and the bodyguard service. Planning and design of a new Police National Resources Emergency Response Centre will continue in 2015, and resources are proposed to expand Emergency Networks to cover the whole country. Security of assistance and care is a pillar of our welfare society. Ensuring good health and care services to all is a public responsibility. Some of the things that affect me very much are encounters with people who have fallen outside, people who are struggling with intoxication or with mental disorders. Here, society has done too much bad work for too many years. This is about people full of hope, dreams and not least resources that society needs. To meet these people and look them in the eye makes an impression. That is why I am pleased that we in this budget are proposing a significant effort on just drugs and psychiatry. We have no one to lose, and the way to a good enough offer for these people is long, but it's going to be done, and we're already starting next year. Long waiting times and poor care services can exacerbate illness and lead to some falling out of work. Through increased appropriations, clear priorities and new solutions, the government shows that it rates in the health and care sector. It's about making health care better. Patients and elderly people in need of care should feel secure that help comes quickly on the day of need. Much is good in Norwegian healthcare. There are good results in a wide range of areas and competent staff contribute to good quality. At the same time, there is a need for renewal. Better organisation, efficiency and communication are needed in order for increased resources to also deliver better results. The government is now reviewing large parts of the sector. In 2015, the introduction of free treatment options begins. The reform will reduce waiting times, increase patient freedom of choice and help to make public hospitals more effective. The government does not want patients to have to wait unnecessarily long for treatment. So we're proposing over 2 billion. kr in increased hospital appropriations to allow more people to be treated. Compared to previous years, this is a high growth. Growth includes treatment in somatics, mental health protection, drugs and rehabilitation. In addition, the government proposes to grant loans for hospitalization in Tønsberg and further development of new children’s and youth centres at Haukeland University Hospital. The government will improve the supply of drug addicts and people with mental disorders. Hospitals receive more funding and health regions are given the task of prioritising these groups. Many of the services offered to people with drug problems and mental disorders are provided in municipalities. The government therefore strengthens the municipal economy and facilitates better municipal services. Of the growth in free income of municipalities, 400 million total. are based on the use of alcohol, mental health, health centres and school health services. The government takes prevention seriously and helps people to get good help before the problems grow. The government wants more elderly people to live longer at home. They shall be able to live active and independent lives with adapted services. The government facilitates the expansion of several sites to day-care facilities for dentures and several lucky days. The government also proposes the means to explore a pilot scheme with State funding for the care of the elderly and the means to develop an overall health register for municipal health and care services. Health services are saving more and more lives, but we also have a responsibility to give people the opportunity to master life and to be active after treatment ends. Strengthening the provision of rehabilitation will allow more opportunities to participate in society and in the labour market. The government will better facilitate the participation of disabled people in working life and daily life. We suggest that users with high needs are given a right to user-driven personal assistance. The government strengthens sport and culture. Complete the stepping up of the new key for the tipping agents. The State shall no longer receive a share of the profits from Norsk Tipping. Instead, it becomes more of a sport and culture. For sport, this will result in increased allocations outside the State budget of 332 million. kr compared to this year, an increase of 18 pst. It will strengthen the latitude across the country. There will be no increase in the NRK licence from this year to next year. The economic environment of the NRC has been significantly improved in recent years by increases in broadcasting charges and by an increase in the number of licensees. The media industry is marked by rapid and extensive changes. The requirements for government efficiency must also apply to the NRC. The government will increase the competitiveness of business throughout the country. We want to make sure that productivity growth can recover from the low level in recent years. Increased competitiveness and productivity will create viable jobs and contribute to the financing of welfare schemes. After a few months of work, the government set up a productivity commission. The Commission will present its first report at the beginning of February, and we look forward to this report and will study it carefully. We hope for a lot of good advice. In many areas, we have already introduced measures and new ones are proposed in the 2015 budget. Tax policy is an important part of government’s work on a more productive economy. The taxes and charges amount to 1 300 billion. kr and finance comprehensive public services and welfare schemes. The tax system has a lot to say about how most people and Norwegian business use resources. The government will make the tax system simpler and more growth-promoting. It's going to pay off more to work, save and invest, while people are going to keep more of their own money. Tax policies that focus on efficient resource use will have good dynamic effects and generate higher economic growth. This will help to increase the tax base over time. In 2014, the government reduced the income tax for all from 28 to 27 p.m. and at the same time took the first step to escalate the property tax. These are good, growth-promoting taxes. Also in the 2015 budget, the government proposes significant reliefs that can contribute to higher economic growth. We're proposing accrued tax reductions of nearly 8.3 billion. kr. There will be relief in the taxation of income for broad groups, and we will reduce many excise duties. The government believes that the wealth tax is still too high. Today's property tax makes it less profitable to save and is unfortunate for the private Norwegian ownership. A number of SMEs argue that lower taxes on wealth are essential to enable them to develop jobs and invest in their own enterprises. With the Government's proposal, 280,000 pensioners will receive a reduced property tax next year. The government proposes to reduce the taxes on wealth by almost a third. We want to reduce the rate to 0.75 pst. The base subtraction is increased to 1.2 million. NOK 2,4 million. kr for married couples. The proposals make saving more profitable, can make it easier to finance investments and can have a positive impact on entrepreneurship. This is good news for enterprises with projects for which funding is difficult to find in the ordinary capital market. Investment tax relief is about solidarity with Norwegian jobs. At the same time, the valuation discount for commercial property and some secondary dwellings is reduced to 20 pst. It will reduce the tax favorisation of investment in such property rather than quoted shares and deposits. It can increase the overall return on savings in Norway. People should still be able to own a secondary residence with today's 40 pst valuation discount. The valuation of primary dwelling and leisure property does not change either, and thus ordinary owners of dwellings are not affected by increased equation values, but will only be relieved by reduced rates and increased deductions. The government proposes a lower tax on income for large groups of the population. A minimum deduction of wages, salaries, social security and pensions of a total of 1 billion is provided. kr. Social security contributions on wages and salaries, social security and entrepreneurial income are reduced and the entry point in the top tax is increased. It makes work more profitable. The total relief in top taxes and social security contributions is over 2 billion. kr. 37 000 fewer have to pay top taxes next year. The government will complete the phase-out of tax class 2 for married couples in 2015. It will motivate work, promote integration and gender equality, and will result in more equal treatment for couples and cohabitants. Students and others with low labour income will enjoy the increase in the credit card limit to NOK 50000. The new disability benefit, adopted by the Stortinget in 2011, to be introduced next year, shall be taxed as compensation of employees. It will then be easier and more transparent to combine work and disability. In order not to make the transition too abrupt, the Government proposes to introduce a transitional arrangement for non-pensioners with interest expenditure. The government proposes reliefs in fees, customs duties and fees. Substantial relief is provided in vehicle charges. The re-registration fee will be reduced by more than one third. The weighting charge for heavier vehicles is more than halved in order to strengthen the competitiveness of the transport industry. In addition, the annual fee for caravans is removed and the one-off fee for motorcycles and snowmobiles is reduced by 30 pst. VAT is simplified. The turnover limit for becoming subject to VAT is increased from NOK 50000 to NOK 150000. It reduces the administrative burden on many small businesses. We also propose to increase the limit on duty-free shipping of goods from abroad, often called online commerce, from 200 kroner to 500 kroner. At the same time, freight and insurance costs are included in the amount limit. The limit for simplified customs duties on private imports of goods increases from NOK 1000 to NOK 3000. The Government proposes a mechanism that neutralises VAT in the State sector. In this way, private enterprises can increasingly compete to carry out tasks that are currently carried out by the State itself. With the proposals that the government is now making, the total tax relief since the government took over is about 15 billion. kr. There is a marked turnaround in fiscal policy compared to the previous government, which linked itself to a certain level of taxation for eight years. And it's a good turn because it promotes growth and well-being. At the same time, redistribution through the tax system changes little. The government wants a society with small differences. Those who earn the most will continue to contribute the most. Norway is one of the countries in Europe with the most regular distribution of income. It will still be. With the government's proposals, most of them will receive tax credits. The average tax relief is NOK 1600. The greatest reliefs measured in dollars go to those with the highest income and wealth. But it's those with the lowest income that get the greatest reliefs measured as a percentage of the income. On average, pensioners are better off than employees. The self-employed comes out well with an average relief of NOK 3 600. Most of it is attributable to the property tax. The government will continue to improve the tax system. Several public investigations are now being carried out which will make a significant contribution to the work of a more growth-oriented tax system. I look forward to the Scheel Committee presenting its proposals for changes in company taxation in December. The Green Tax Commission will make proposals for a green tax shift that distorts more of the tax towards environmentally harmful activity. The government will also review agricultural taxation with a view to simpler rules and more efficient resource use. It is appropriate to avoid the unnecessary complexity and inefficientness of support for agriculture. These studies will make important contributions to the work on future budgets. Innovation, knowledge and technology are key to raising the competitiveness of industry and increasing productivity. Norwegian investment in research and innovation is below the average of OECD countries and well behind Nordic countries. In particular, industrial investment in research and development is declining, and we score too poorly on the EU ranking of the innovative capacity of European countries. A few weeks ago I was so lucky to visit the company Borregaard in Østfold. Seeing what innovativeness, innovation and implementation capacity existed in that enterprise was suitable for creating enthusiasm for some. This is what the government wants to see more of, and the budget is doing well. The government will increase the focus on research and facilitate the development of more world-leading university environments. We will stimulate international researchers to come to Norway and Norwegian researchers to participate in the EU Framework Programme for Research and Innovation. TaxFUNN shall trigger socio-economical profitable research and development. The Government will strengthen the scheme by raising the amount limit for the deduction of own-executed and purchased R & D. Higher spending limits may contribute to the implementation of several projects and to the faster implementation of projects. The government will strengthen nationwide schemes for innovation and industrial research. The government has high ambitions for Norway as a knowledge nation. High quality at all stages, from kindergarten and school to higher education and research, shall provide competent workers and good conditions for value creation and well-being. The key to raising the knowledge of students is to invest in the competence of teachers. The Government proposes a further increased commitment to continuing training for teachers. In order to contribute to a better school environment for pupils and teachers, we also propose more to school and swimming facilities. In the higher education sector, we will take action to improve quality and resource use. We strengthen the study funding and facilitate the construction of around 1,500 new student homes in 2015. We are proposing funds for reducing child care prices for families with low incomes, so that more children are able to go to kindergarten, while those with good income have to prepare for the price to rise slightly. This is good social policy that makes sure that those who need it the most get a simpler everyday life. The government will strengthen the work against child poverty. At the same time, more efforts are being made to improve the quality of kindergartens and to facilitate more flexible admissions. High employment and low unemployment are a quality sign of the Norwegian labour market. Nevertheless, too many people of working age receive some form of health-related benefit. The government's goal is to get more involved in the work. We want to strengthen the working line. There is a need to facilitate people's easy access to jobs in the businesses and sectors where the workforce loses most. At the same time it must pay to work. The government has recently put forward proposals to ease the rules for temporary employment and to soften some of the working time rules in the Working Environment Act. We have set up a working time committee to look at different ways of organizing work. We have also set up a sample to review the work of the Working and Welfare Unit in order to make it more efficient and user-friendly and to reduce unnecessary red tape. In the budget, we propose inter alia: the conversion of the child allowance in the disability scheme from a test of need to a standardised supplement and the reduction of the maximum transitional benefit period for single dependants. Both proposals will help increase incentives to work. Long-term sick leave is often the path to disability. Therefore, early efforts are important. Much of this work must be done at work, in close cooperation between the employer, the employee and the doctor. The IA agreement was therefore extended in the spring. The government will continue today’s sick pay scheme, but now proposes some measures to improve the way in which sick messages are given and the follow-up to the sick person. In the draft budget, we are also continuing the high level of efforts towards people with disabilities. The government is today promoting a proposal for a State budget with a clear profile. We give priority to creating the strong framework that enables jobs to be created, that people have a job to do, and that we solve challenges that most people face in everyday life. We are betting on what gives the people security and freedom. We carry out major reforms because we want to help individuals in everyday life. We are strengthening and further developing the Norwegian welfare solutions, and we are following up the government's political platform. The draft budget is well adapted to the situation in the Norwegian economy today. At the same time, it strengthens growth capacity. The budget makes a good contribution to high employment and low unemployment at a time when we will have to expect an increase in the need for change in the future. Renewal drying must be over. The government is set to do what is necessary to raise productivity growth and strengthen the working line. At the same time, we must give priority. The money the Stortinget distributes over the budgets is not the money of politicians, but the money of taxpayers and citizens. We're not going to waste the community's money. This is why the government is promoting proposals for a reform for reducing red tape and increasing the efficiency of the state. This is how we release funds that can go to priority bets, which can strengthen our country in the face of the future, and which can contribute to better services for its citizens. This draft budget reinforces well-being. It strengthens the health system, it increases safety, it increases levels of knowledge, and it increases investment in infrastructure. This is done at the same time as we propose tax havens that contribute to growth and that allow individuals to retain more of their own income. It is those who believe that politicians should make more choices on behalf of the population and that the level of taxation should be even higher. This government disagrees with that. We believe that individuals, businesses, organisations and volunteering are able to make good choices for the best of society. That's why we're promoting a budget that gives greater room for good forces in society. On behalf of the government, I am presenting a draft budget that solves many challenges today, while at the same time equiping Norway for the future. I would like to congratulate Mr Stortinget on the further examination of the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-08.ana.ud1398e272	The President will propose that a comment round be opened, limited to one post of up to 3 minutes from each batch group. After each post from the opposition parties, the Minister of Finance will be given an opportunity to comment for up to 2 minutes. Thereafter, the representatives of the opposition parties are given the opportunity to comment on the final report for up to 2 minutes. Furthermore, it is proposed that a comment by the Minister of Finance or the Prime Minister be opened up in up to 3 minutes to the end. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-08.ana.ud1398e279	This is a budget for increasing differences. The government prioritises unsocial tax cuts rather than investments for the future. It's immature politics, and it gives a less just Norway. The fundamental question we have to ask ourselves when we are going to work together is this: What is Norway needing today? What are the greatest challenges facing society? That the most prosperous among us have too little money, is hardly one of them. Anyway, when the big questions are ahead of us, this is the government's answer. The sum of the tax cuts is 8.3 billion. kr. Half of the tax cuts are going to reduce property taxes, and half of the property tax relief goes to the richest percentage of the population in Norway. Before the budget was presented, we were told that there is a good distribution of the tax cuts. Then it seems to me that the Minister of Finance has a different and a little unorthodox understanding of what a good distribution is. The government's sun-clearest bet in the budget is huge tax cuts, where most of them go to people who already have quite well-filled wallets. The government says it's busy at work. It is fine, but by raising the threshold of free online trade from abroad, the government is jeopardizing several thousand jobs in the commercial sector with a pen stroke. It's probably nice for those who act online, but the social director of Forke has said that this is the most hostile proposition he can remember. That's what a lot is saying. Then the government itself writes in its documents that the municipalities are now experiencing a tax deficit of SEK 2.1 billion. kr. It does not compensate the government for this, and then the government has not taken the matter seriously. The tasks of the municipalities are underfunded. That is, we're going to see consultants across the whole country who are submitting municipal budgets with proposals for cuts in welfare. The government leaves the cut-off to the municipalities. In addition, they provide earmarked funds for regional and regional policy of 230 million. kr. Before the election, we heard a lot about the commitment to free treatment. From the budget we can read that the money to finance this project is to be taken by an already weak increase in activity in hospitals. The kindergartens would be cheaper for those with the lowest incomes, but the maximum price goes up, and the rates for those with the worst advice will be lowered only in August next year. The aid rate is not reached. The number of allowances refugees is reduced. Unemployed people are deprived of their holiday money. The support supplement is reduced. You cut scholarships for high school students. You cut in action places. I could still have. What we see is the contours of a series of unsocial cuts that are going to finance the big tax cuts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-08.ana.ud1398e300	I think Marianne Marthinsen's advantage should be to spend a little more time reading the budget before she drops the sentence on it, because it's quite obvious that there's some things she hasn't brought with her yet. Let me just underline: this is a budget with a very good social profile. This is a budget that gives more to those who need it the most. When we legislate user-driven personal assistance so that people can get a simpler everyday life, when we make sure that diabetics and other chroniclers get access to new and good medicine, and when we give a painful boost to people who are struggling with addiction and mental disorders, it's just about lifting those who sit at the bottom of the table and who have been forgotten by the Workers' Party for the last eight years. When we reduce taxes, it is also a good contribution to helping them with the worst economy. When we increase the scholarship to those students who have the weakest economy, it's about prioritizing them that the Workers' Party and SV forgot for their eight years. Now, when we get an offer for children who are subjected to violence, an offer that has not existed because the Workers' Party has not previously found room for prioritizing it, it is about offering a package of children who have experienced cruel things. So all in all, this is a budget with a very good social profile. So it's not that most of the bet in this budget goes to tax relief. In fact, only one-fifth of the total investment in this budget is used for tax reductions. The remainder is used for investments in infrastructure, health care, police, knowledge, research and development. That's the truth. It is also about facilitating the creation of more safe Norwegian jobs in the coming years. I think a lot of workers out in the Norwegian community expect that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-08.ana.ud1398e313	One-fifth goes to tax cuts, says the Minister of Finance. So it's like two fifths goes to demography, just to cover up that we're getting older, and we're becoming more people. So a very large part of the space of action that the government actually had when they sat down and were going to start distributing funds has gone to tax cuts. With all due respect to report, the profile of this budget is mostly to those who have the most. And then we don't see anything about a green tax shift. Instead, more car traffic is stimulated, fuel taxes really go down – there are probably many in the Progress Party who are happy about it – and there is no sign that the government wants to change in an environmentally friendly direction. Instead, we get lower charges on caravans, motorcycles and snowmobiles. The budget is no bet on climate, rather on the contrary. What we see is an environmental department that's the big budget guy. CCS is reported to be moving out of the country. It is a budget that does not deliver measures that enable us to achieve national climate targets by 2020. And there is no connection whatsoever between this and the great words used by the Prime Minister about the climate challenges in the debate on the throne. There is probably a lot in this budget that we can get together on, but many of the big stakes are bad enough to respond to the challenges we face as a country and as a society. In total, the budget draws a picture of a government that has a lack of feeling and contact with people and businesses around the country and the needs that are being reported. This is a budget that gives too much to too few. It is a budget for a less just Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-08.ana.ud1398e322	The greatest inequality between people is not found in tax statistics and distribution curves, as the Workers' Party's spokeswoman seems to think. We find it between those who have a job and those who don't have a job. Therefore, this budget facilitates the creation of more jobs and with the strengthening of the basis of the good welfare society we have, but also ensuring that we are well equipped for the future. We do this primarily through a great commitment to the knowledge society, by focusing on research and innovation, and not least a promise that Norwegian students will learn more. Because whether we like it or not, we who have come up a little bit in the years: the future and the basis of the welfare society of the future lies in the young minds, in those who are going to learn something, and in the society in which they are going to go. In addition, we need to build roads and railways – infrastructure – so that businesses get faster, as they are served. And not least, it's also important for the climate. Tax relief was a topic in the debate we just had, but it must pay off for people to take a job. In order to get a job, jobs must first be created, and then we must have a tax system that allows Norwegian owners to invest in Norwegian businesses and create the jobs that we will live on in the future. On the other hand, what is the welfare community? Well, it is also closing the gaps in the safety net socially, and it does this budget by giving priority not least to those who have been low on priority, to drug and mental health, and also to increasing healthcare appropriations and to moderation schemes in kindergartens — just to mention something. Then I want to say, through this budget, we are following up on what the Right and the Government have promised through election campaigns, through government statements, and not least through the cooperation agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left. There's a value base at the bottom that looks at not least that we have to create before we can share, we have to have a responsible economy, oil money has to be used more in line with what was originally meant, through investment in knowledge and infrastructure, and the topic that has been very topical here today, through growth-enhancing tax relief. I don't think we agree on everything initially with the Christian People's Party and the Left, but I look forward – as always with these two parties – to constructive talks in the Storting to get good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-08.ana.ud1398e337	Today is a historic day for Norway. The State budget for 2015 is the first budget created by the Right-front party government from the bottom. The work started nine months ago, and there is no doubt that this budget is a genuine child. Here, the government in the area by region, as we in the government party have said – in the election campaign, in the government platform and in the cooperation agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left – will deliver. Then, of course, we are listening to what the Christian People's Party and the Left believe here, and we want to look positively at the wishes and demands that come from them. The fact that the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV are not satisfied is by no means surprising or disappointing. It confirms on the contrary that we are on the right path. Because we've been plotting a different direction than what the red-green government was heading for for eight years. The red-green government increases taxes and taxes. This government reduces taxes and taxes. We do this to ensure Norwegian competitiveness and secure Norwegian jobs. And because we think that most people are better able to own money than politicians are to dispose of their money. The average tax relief is NOK 1 600, and the lowest income is the greatest relief, as a percentage of the income. Another area that is important to us and which will also ensure Norwegian jobs is transport. The investment in road and rail is record high this year and will be further strengthened by 5 billion. kr – till 55 brd. kr next year. This means lower transport costs both for businesses and for individuals. In eight years with red-green controls, health cows in Norway are increasing. Now we're going to flip that. The 2015 budget proposes an additional 2 billion. kr in increased permissions, so that more people can receive treatment in a timely manner. The municipalities also receive a significant real growth and increase in free income. The commitment to knowledge and competitiveness continues. The reconstruction of police and preparedness will be continued and strengthened. The government is doing here what the Labour Party, the Center Party and the SV said was impossible, easy to let people keep most of their own money while we invest for the future and strengthen the welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-08.ana.ud1398e363	I see from the online newspapers that the finance minister feels she has gone high for several weeks, so I realize that this must be a day of relief – literally. After hearing Gjermund Hagesetter, I can say that it is a genuine child who is the product. [[Laughter]] This promises well. Three minutes is short time to give a quick comment to a comprehensive budget. We recognise and are pleased with the efforts in the health sector, the care of drug users, and the psychiatry, in the field of school health, transport, research, higher education and the justice sector. Of course, when we are going to negotiate this budget gradually, there are some aspects of the Christian People's Party that will pay particular attention to. Let me mention someone: Early schooling, not least in high school. We think that might have the most important effect in the future, also to prevent ‘drop-out’. An active family policy. We notice the nursery system. The principle I think we agree on. Then we have to look at the device and who is going to pay for someone more than today getting a lower kindergarten price. We agree with the principle, but we have to look at the device. Climate issues were an important part of yesterday's debate. I have enough trouble seeing the traces of what was said yesterday, in what came today. Here we have a job to do. Some of the fees actually go in the wrong direction, in our view. Then we have a responsibility for the world out there. Ebola-tradione is just a reminder of that. I see that the government is asking for assistance to get up on 1 pst. That's what it's supposed to do. Finally, we are concerned with the social profile of the budget. The tax relief proposed by the government means that I have to say the following, now that the Minister of Finance is going to have the floor: it scares me a little to give solid relief in the top, while for example. reduces the social security of disabled persons and children. It creeps a little bit in my ears. I'm excited to hear what it sounds like in the Minister of Finance's ears.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-08.ana.ud1398e383	I believe that the Advance Party and the Right Magnificent Groups look forward to the forthcoming negotiations with the Christian People's Party and the Left to doing a good budget even better, and it is of course important that the Christian People's Party and the Left have their stamp on this budget in order to be able to participate and take responsibility for the whole of it. Therefore, I am pleased to note that Hans Olav Syversen and the Christian People's Party have found very much in this budget that they agree with. Of course, it's also good that one of the areas of Christian People's Party wants to bet more on is the school. It's one of the most important bet areas for the government. That's why I think we can quickly agree to do even more to raise the quality of school. Family policy is also a question on which the four parties share many common views. As far as the climate is concerned, I believe that the government is delivering in many areas of this budget. I noticed that the Labour Party’s Marianne Marthinsen had been blind to the climate minister’s own budget chapter, but the truth is that good climate policy and our ability to reduce emissions are about good collective action, about good railway policy, about more modern roads, about a more modern car park and about bringing more unit support to households. It is about the international climate action that the government is increasing and strengthening in this budget. It is about the investment in the Climate Fund, it is about the growth of the environmental technology system, and it is about more favourable tax rules for renewable energy. So I believe that the government is delivering in a wide range of areas to improve the efforts for climate and environment in this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-08.ana.ud1398e392	I noticed that the Minister of Finance did not respond exactly to that with the social profile, so I expect that it has been forwarded to the constructive negotiations that I understand to take place, and that is what we are addressing, because that is what is needed. So to climate: Yes, I totally agree, you shouldn't stare blindly in one budget area. Is there something that needs constant efforts and objectives not only abroad but also domestically, it is climate. So we're definitely going to make sure to put on the agenda in the next round. We look forward to important negotiations. I don't think they'll just be easy. There's a lot of work to do. Much is positive, but there are clear challenges, as I have mentioned in my post. But we are going to negotiate with the Right and the Advance Party to achieve a result, and a result that we are going to contribute to is also getting a solid stamp from our party. That's our goal, and I'm looking forward to that round. Then it is clear that we are also dependent on seeing a balance sheet in the budget where taxes are to be seen. Yes, we agree that securing Norwegian business and Norwegian jobs is important, but in the cooperation agreement this is one part of what to invest in. Another part is well-being and that we have a social security at the bottom that makes us have a solid welfare society that we can also show up in 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-08.ana.ud1398e402	I would like to begin by congratulating Prime Minister Erna Solberg, for here one has really managed to give priority to the Right Core Chosen Ones. The profits of this budget are those who live in the largest houses in the best residential areas of the largest cities. It is a very targeted tax policy to hit Oslo West and Bærum, in order to contribute to further growth and development in those areas. It's not a budget for most people, and it's not a budget for the whole country. Bad examples are how to cut off the allowance for those who are sick, and when they are asked to have vacation money, you cut it out. We see that in terms of those who have children and are ill-satisfied, we see it in short steps for those who have reduced working capacity and need help to have a car, to mention something. With regard to districts, we again see that the Right Party and the Progressive Party are cutting off the regional policy instruments that have been a success in creating new jobs among those who have new ideas and better solutions across the country. Just like last year, you cut those tools. Research and development into agriculture and the food industry is being cut. Siv Jensen promised Borregaard as a good example, just a company that has benefited from the kind of research and development tools that have gone over the Ministry of Agriculture's budget. It's been a success. Now the government is cutting it further, you're cutting research and development. The transport bet is disappointing. Many of us remember the debates with the Progress Party last summer in the election campaign. They promised to add up to 45 billion. kr in addition to that contained in NTP. Last year, the red-green government laid $6.4 billion. kr. This government is adding 5 billion. kr more. It is far below what is promised, far below expectations. So it's interesting to hear the progress game from last year. Last year, the Progress Party said, "Well, it's smart to remove tolls." This year, the policy of the Progress Party is: we are going to demand tolls smarter. I don't think that was what people voted for, but that's what they've got: smarter toll collection – the new election motto of the Progress Party! This municipal structure is going to lead to massive cuts in many municipalities, because there has been a defaulting tax intake of about 2 billion. kr this year, and with that framework of free income it will be cut in care and care, it will be cut to the smallest children. So in the core areas of the Progress Party, it will be cut instead of bets. It's sad and it's sad that you don't prioritize local welfare around the country, make sure we have a decent care for the elderly, make sure we have a good school, make sure we have extra resources for the kids who need it. But this government can't afford it. They give priority to those who live in the largest houses in the best districts of the largest cities, and that is a wrong priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-08.ana.ud1398e417	I remember a former Center Party leader standing outside – just in the District Norway that Battle Violence Vedum just talked about – and explained just how important it was to reduce the wealth tax in order to strengthen value creation in the districts as well. It is possible that the Center Party no longer means it, but this government believes it. When I travel around and talk to businesses, no matter where in the country they are – in Northern Norway, in the Inland, in the South, along the West Coast – there are three things they are concerned about. One is increased investment in infrastructure. That's what this government is delivering on. This is a record budget! How Battle Violence Vedum has managed to make it not to be that, I don't understand. The second thing they ask for is good, competitive framework conditions, so that they can survive in competition, which is still becoming tougher against the rest of the world. That's what this government is delivering on. And with reference to Borregaard: one of the things Borregaard really took up when we visited them, was a reinforced effort directed at the BIA funds. It delivered the government last year, and it delivers the government to this year. The third thing that enterprises – wherever in the country they are located – are concerned is lower taxes, so that they can strengthen their own competitiveness, strengthen their own bottom line, strengthen their own employees and perhaps also hire more. That's good district policy. It is therefore important that the government reduces both tax and tax burdens and that we invest heavily in infrastructure – in research, in knowledge, in better health care, in a good community economy. It's not right to call this a rage. I have even seen that the KS manager is out today and commends the efforts the government has made, precisely because it is about the municipalities getting better opportunities next year. But that does not mean that municipalities also need to give priority to the most important tasks first.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-08.ana.ud1398e428	In the many budgetary processes in the country's municipalities this autumn, we will see very many 'Erna-cutt' and 'Siv-cutt'. It's going to be a new term. You're going to put down a lot of offers, you're going to cut in the quality of the offers with the municipal structure that's here, if not the Christian People's Party and the Left are able to get a real boost. Then I understand that Siv Jensen is not talking more about care for the elderly. Siv Jensen’s model was to have a State extra funding, but what is in the budget is 20 million. kr, and it's nothing, but it's a symbol – something candy that Frp people can enjoy. So to what makes us react so strongly to this tax scheme: we put down a sample, the Scheel Committee, which was to look at how we can improve taxation for Norwegian companies, how we can increase competitiveness in Norway, and there is, of course, a wealth tax one of the discussions. But here the government has pushed the entire sample, when you give so massive relief to that part of the wealth tax that you do here. What we know when we look at the tables is that most of the tax credits are going to come to some addresses -- Snare Island and Nesøya and Jar. This is a policy for those areas. There is no value creation policy across the country, because there are many other instruments, depreciation rules and other types of measures that we can use to create values across the coast, across the country — and not just concentrate taxes on a few. So to what I'm saying about transportation, what is it that we can measure the Progress Party? Yeah, about what they promised. Now what you're doing is you're following up on the NTP that the red-green government put forward. This is not a new initiative, it is a continuation of policy, and there is no removal of toll projects in this scheme even if you have said it – it is just a smarter way to demand it. So it's a belly pad: it's a policy for those who have the most from before, those who live in the biggest houses in the largest cities. It's not a policy for the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-08.ana.ud1398e439	If 2015 is to become an important year for the climate, as stated in the census, the state budget in 2015 must become an important budget for the climate. Green growth is quite possible, but it's urgent with green conversion. Norway cannot only contribute heavily to making a difference. We can secure Norway’s position as an energy nation, new industrial growth and value creation by strengthening existing schemes and processes and not least by implementing new measures and incentives. The draft budget is a good starting point for rail processing and strengthening. For collective reasons, the proposal does not respond in any way to the challenges we face. Market forces must be systematically applied in the climate service. People want to set things up for the environment. Then the job is political to make it giving and attractive to make climate-friendly choices in everyday life. In addition to better depreciation rules for wind power, an increment deduction and the continuation of electric car schemes, in line with the climate agreement, there is little new towards a green tax shift – rather the opposite. Skewing is a bit too tiring in such contexts. However, in danger of saying something in the 'now's' internal emotional storm that I am regretting afterwards, I shall be content to state that the final vote on the Left budget will have a completely different climate profile, both in format and in scale. Some of the fact that 78 000 young people grow into poverty in Norway in 2014 is directly heartbreaking to think about. For this reason, a measure to differentiate child care payments is important. The left supports the principle. The alignment does not put the left behind. It will be a topic around the negotiating table together with other poverty measures, such as free core time in kindergarten and differentiated child welfare. Unfortunately, when it comes to business and innovation and specific entrepreneurs and innovation, the draft budget is reasonably free of new, entirely necessary measures to reduce capital abuse and ensure better social rights for self-employed people. It's a direct surprise. I can assure everyone who knows how important innovation is for value creation and future well-being, that the Left will do a job to improve this through the negotiations in Stortinget; negotiations that will be a demanding but not impossible exercise. Before then, the left will produce an own, alternative state budget: a budget that will show a completely different, clear course into the new, green, renewable and innovative direction Norway needs to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-08.ana.ud1398e454	I also look forward to the Left putting its mark on this budget throughout the harvest. It's not very surprising that the heart of Left knocks hot for green growth. I believe that there are many good measures in this budget that go in that direction, but I also want to remind the representative Breivik that we have recently reduced the green tax commission at the request of the Left. Those answers are not yet available. It is precisely through the great and extensive work that we will get a response to what is a suitable green tax exchange in a major shift in the tax system. Likewise, we have found room to make some reliefs in this budget as well. We're following up what we're going to do in terms of an increase in household support, but we've said that it's also going to be converted into a tax deduction, so it requires an ESA authorisation. Pending this, we will at least present this as an aid scheme, which can trigger an increase in household activities quite immediately. I think that's good. There are also several proposals that contribute to a more favourable tax regime for renewable energy in this budget, as well as the continuation of all the electric car benefits. I would assume that it is positive, seen also with the eyes of the Left, with the strong commitment of this budget for railway and collective purposes, etc., which of course is also an important part of the transformation of the economy. Overall, this is a budget that takes Norway in a new and growth-promoting direction, which we are totally dependent on if we are to create new, stable, good jobs for the future as well, and I am sure we will agree with the Left on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-08.ana.ud1398e467	Of course, the Green Tax Commission is positive. Freedom and opportunities for future generations, for our young and grandchildren, must have to benefit and benefit from nature in the same way that we benefit from it, cannot wait for new distributions. It has to be done now. Then, of course, as the Minister of Finance says, there are a number of measures in a state budget of 1,200 billion. kr which is positive and good, and several of the priorities are pleased with Left, not least in the knowledge field. Where left is supposed to help make a good starting point better. The railway bet provides a good basis for the rounds around the negotiating table. It is also nice to note, as the Minister of Finance says in his main speech, that the government is now coming to the left in advance and looking down a selection to review and evaluate the rule of action, and the over-expansive use of oil money, exactly 3 pst. in the budget now presented, and once again new, the sovereign world record in crowns and ears, indicates to the full how necessary such a review is. My change – I am unfortunately forced to use that word – comes from the lack of willingness to actually strengthen the climate agreement and thus achieve the domestic climate target in 2020. I wonder a little bit about the fact that both the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister have such a relaxed relationship with the target governments actually committed themselves to in the cooperation agreement with the Left and the Christian People's Party. The government doesn't exactly make the job of their negotiators here on the house easier with such a starting point. I want to be clear: the final state budget must have an environmental profile of a completely different format and scope than today's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-08.ana.ud1398e480	Today, Norway is getting smaller. Today, everyone in this country who after many years of hard work, and who has gradually worn out their bodies as nurses and drivers and shopkeepers and cooks and fishermen, could get a message of joy from the government: We are not going to take away your safety, you are going to get paid for the pursuit. However, they have not received any e-mails. Instead, they have been told that there will be less money for Christmas presents and clothes for their children. By turning down on the concept that working will pay off, the government has decided that those who have worked the hardest will get less, while those who live on interest for inheritance will get the most. This budget is a systematic attack on the workers and on the poorest in society. The government can't afford the railways, we can't afford forest protection and the environment and climate, we can't afford 1 pst. aid, we can't afford sick pay for them with the lowest income, says the government. But the government sees those who are closest to the government, and those who have contributed voice to the election campaign of the government parties. This year, the highest priority of Siv Jensen has been cut off from the wealth tax. I guess there's no problem that can't be solved by cuts in the property tax. Have you lost your job because the government is no longer letting you get a permit? Fear not, the dynamic metaphysical effect of wealth tax will get you into work, contrary to all empires. Reject science, trust Finance Minister Siv Jensen! Are you chronically ill and losing $56,000 a year because you have two children? Fear not, but poverty makes you able to lift yourself up after the headlights, and the cuts in wealth tax will give you a more generous ownership that might then make room to get you into the heat. The government talks a lot about trust in the individual, but what they have is trust in some people, and the more you have in the wallet, the more trust you get. Norway is still not an equal country. Today the government could say, "We're going to close the gap between men and women." But it doesn't happen. Instead, the Minister for Children and Family is humiliated with a budget entirely without a commitment to equality. We're not talking rhetoric here; it's zero bet. After weakening the kindergartens, increasing the cash support and cutting the papers, the government lends itself back with satisfaction – and that is before the Christian People's Party will once again get its demands on values started. This budget is based on the assumption that dependants with MS, Revmatism or Parkinson's magically become healthier from becoming poorer, and the assumption that enormous wealth for the elite drops down on everyone else. History has repudiated both these ideological blind tracks – blind tracks that most of all resemble the Prime Minister's greatest political role model, according to her own, Margaret Thatcher.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-08.ana.ud1398e497	It was for example predictable from Snorre Valen and SV, but it doesn't get any better for that reason. It is rather that this is a budget that strengthens the social profile of those who need it, and it is a budget that ensures that we can create more jobs in the future. What I had hoped was that SV had spent the last year on, after they left the government after eight years, was to ask themselves why they did not even start working on the completely necessary conversion of the Norwegian economy. It's a transformation that this government takes seriously because it's about securing people's jobs and safe Norwegian economy. Then we must invest in the future. We need to invest in infrastructure. We need to invest in knowledge, in research and in education. We must ensure that we have competitive framework conditions for a business with a high cost level, with which they must nevertheless be able to compete internationally. It is therefore important that the government reduces taxes and taxes. But we do it both for business, and we do it for ordinary households. I would like to remind you that after eight years with a red-green government where the tax pressure went up, the tax pressure is now falling. It's not harder or worse for anyone. It is rather that more people are left with a little more of their own income, and it allows for more investment in new Norwegian jobs. I think that's good. One of the most important things we do to reduce poverty in Norway is to make sure that people have a job to do. There are too many people who over the last few years have listened to festivities about the need to facilitate the transition from social security to work but who have not seen any means come. Now they're coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-08.ana.ud1398e508	Investing in those who live on inherited wealth is not investing in the future, it's investing in the past and investing in mistakes. Fine words about creativity and people's everyday lives have little to say about the reality of the State budget that the Minister of Finance has just presented. How can you, for example, the Minister of Finance reasonably claimed that people will retain more of their money when, until the fall of next year, the increased nursery prices alone eat up the entire tax cut for ordinary employees? What does the Minister of Finance have to say to the poorest chronically ill parents who lose NOK 28 000 per year per child – NOK 28 000 per year? The poorest children in the country get the biggest cut of all groups in the state budget. They are punished because their parents are poor and unable to work — and at the same time, they cut in the places of action. There won't be any more jobs. We know from research that providing decent support to single-parents does not lead to lower professional participation, on the contrary. Nevertheless, single-parents also have to pay in this state budget. This state budget is most marked by moralism. It's a clue from wealthy politicians who say that if you're sick or have lost your job, you can thank yourself. It's bad to look at. The finance minister says she's been pregnant with this state budget for nine months. Well, it turns out to be a government budget that only a mother can love. [[muttering in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-08.ana.ud1398e519	Before the summer, the government said that each drop was going up. They promised full gas in the oil business. That's why it was very inspiring to hear the Prime Minister yesterday say in the throne debate that the oil business would no longer be the bearer of the Norwegian economy, and that the green shift must come now. It's urgent, said the Prime Minister – acutely. «Acute» – it's urgent. Norway shall become carbon neutral in 2050. It's only 35 more years. It means a change of course, announced by the Prime Minister, who is so strong that it is very similar to the Green Party's policy. So the question is, how can a green shift like that actually happen? Then two things are certain: one is that the government must create confidence that this is the policy that will actually be pursued, and the other is that it must provide predictability that makes business think it is wise to bet on the green shift. Unfortunately, this state budget goes backwards in time, to spring policy. This is a government budget that has been implemented by oil, it is a consumption and emissions-promoting budget. Three examples can show how the government uses a Of tax reliefs of SEK 8.3 billion kr goes SEK 1.3 billion. kr for lower car charges, government oil investment increases by 8 billion. kr, and road investment increases by 3 billion. kr. This is the very opposite of distorting the state's investment towards a green business and sustainable transport and energy. This year, according to the Central Statistical Office, it invests approx. 225 B.C.E. kr in the Norwegian oil sector and NOK 20,5 billion. kr in the mainland industry. This is because investment in the oil sector is being presented with benefits that no other industry receives — huge tax deductions, depreciation rules and guarantees. Red and blue governments tell a language that investors trust, that this – oil – is the industry to bet on. The Minister of Finance has today presented a 2015 budget with good individual actions for technology, research, etc. However, the budget does not even attempt to demonstrate the climate and environmental impact of this. The budget cuts, for example: The Ministry of the Environment's budget with a total of 9 pst. precisely in the work on climate, natural diversity and pollution. This is a budget that does not create a green shift. On the contrary, it creates maximum uncertainty about where this government really will, maximum conflict about each and every oil workplace threatened by new technology, market and climate, and maximum uncertainty for business as to what to invest in.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-08.ana.ud1398e532	I think it is very good that Rasmus Hansson has seen several of the environmental and climate measures that are actually in this budget. I can also remind you that we are strengthening the climate fund by a total of 9 billion. kr. It will contribute more money to important actions in the coming years. I want to underline the importance of the oil and gas sector for Norway and the Norwegian economy. It's the biggest single industry we have, which employs most people. It is therefore essential that Norwegian authorities be able to pursue a predictable and long-term policy to ensure value creation for a very important industry. At the same time, we have stressed in the budget papers that we are now probably about to go above the top, and that investment in this industry is going to flatten out somewhat in time in the future. Predictability and stability are important, not least for all those who now experience being told that their jobs are disappearing in this industry. The advantage is that we have low unemployment and growth in the economy, which makes it easier to get a new job. But I would warn against believing that a green shift, which Rasmus Hansson is busy with, is going to happen as quickly as the Greens call for. It would be serious for the important industry of the oil and gas industry and related activities, and I think they very much appreciate that the government is continuing to maintain stable, predictable and competitive framework conditions for an industry that is still going to mean a great deal to the Norwegian economy in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-08.ana.ud1398e542	The speed of the shift was the prime minister as defined – full carbon neutrality in 2050. It's not petty to change. If we agree that the oil industry is going above the top, and that we are going to carry out a green shift, then the question is, where are we going to put the inputs? A report that checked Norwegian oil investments and subsidies in 2012 concluded that Norway is subsidising oil activities by an estimated 25 billion. kr. Interestingly, the Progress Party is responsible for such a policy, when the goal is to develop another business. It's possible to do something about the resources. It is possible to increase – as the Greens propose – the special tax on oil from 51 pst. to 53 pst. It will increase the country's income in the short term. The system of reimbursement of exploration costs can be removed. It'll cut government expenditure by 10 billion. kr. It is possible to remove the subsidy scheme, which provides for exemption from investment. It will increase tax revenue by a few billion. You can increase the price of CO2 emissions to NOK 1000. per tonne, as many have proposed. It will also generate increased revenues. These are big, heavy instruments in Norwegian business that are used to keep alive in an industry that the Prime Minister says we're going to move out of. Our proposal is to start using these tools to develop the business that we agree we need in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-08.ana.ud1398e556	The President assumes that the Minister of Finance wants to make a final statement – and opens it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-08.ana.ud1398e559	Thanks for a preliminary feedback on the State budget for 2015. The Government has been committed to providing for more consideration in this budget at the same time. The important thing is that we can seal the social security network, so that those at the bottom of the table get better opportunities in the future. There are a wide range of good measures in this budget that ensure their everyday lives. The BPA scheme, spending on drugs and psychiatry and a wide range of other measures will be crucial for many people who have long felt that they are not being taken seriously in Norwegian society. We have a responsibility both to make everyday life easier today and to take action to invest for the future. Many of these answers come from this budget. We are in no way solving all the societal challenges in one budget, but we have drawn up a good direction and a new course to meet the challenges facing Norwegian society now. They're different now than just a few years ago. We know we have to go through a conversion. We know that our business structure is going to change. We know that the division of the economy has been a significant challenge for our business. We've been talking about this for a lot of years. Now is the time to implement migration measures, so that we are better prepared for it in the future. It's about making it possible to create new jobs, and it's about securing the most of those we already have. It is also about having Norwegian capital that dares to invest. As was also the Prime Minister in the debate on the throne: in a situation where the circumstances around us are becoming more demanding, Norwegian companies will take a much larger and longer-term responsibility for the enterprises, for the workplaces and for the Norwegian communities than owners far away from Norway. Therefore, it is important to stimulate more private, Norwegian capital that can be invested in future businesses. It facilitates this government. We have to do that if we're to have new jobs in the future. The fact that we invest heavily in infrastructure and that for the first time in several decades we can start to reduce the demand for maintenance is necessary. It's nice to cut strings in new road projects, but it's also important to keep up with what we've already built. Many people in this country have been saddened that it is not asphalted enough and maintained enough. For the first time, the aftermath goes down, and I'm very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-08.ana.ud1398e572	The President will propose that the Minister of Finance's presentation of the Government's proposals for the State Budget and the National Budget for 2015 be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-08.ana.ud1398e611	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - That's not what it looks like. The meeting has been cancelled.
