ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e61	The representatives of Freddy de Ruiter, Sverre Myrli, Morten Wold, Jan Arild Ellingsen and Hans Olav Syversen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e82	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sverre Myrli. – Other proposals are not available, and Sverre Myrli is unanimously elected as President-in-Office of the current sitting. The representative of Kjell Ingolf Roppstad will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e89	On behalf of the representatives Hans Olav Syversen, Olaug V. Bollestad and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal for the suspension of the jury system and to replace it with co-decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e94	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 up to and including Nos. 3 is treated as a whole. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e134	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 35 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a succession of up to five lines with replies from the main speakers for each group of parties and six lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e145	The importance of a well-functioning and value-creating business in Norway is widely agreed in the Committee. However, the Committee's position shows that there are clear policy lines. In order to avoid the use of characteristics, I should like to say that a budget has improved through the treatment in Stortinget. It is also positive that the Committee has agreed to suspend decisions on any power of sale in Norwegian companies to deal with the notification of ownership. I would like to thank the Committee on Budgetary Cooperation. The central party wants a policy to bring the whole country into operation. This is why we want to focus on a broad industrial policy that has good general framework conditions at the bottom and that has sharp, targeted instruments. We do it because we believe it is beneficial for future value creation in Norway. The central party’s industrial policy, transport policy and district policy are built up in this context. The centre party is strongly critical of the government's passive and business neutral policies, such as: is to cut out the Copernicus programme, delete the marine value creation programme, cut travel life activities and eliminate the self-governing industry. The alternate budget of the Centre Party includes a strong commitment to forest. We have a forest package, 1 billion. kr above government level, which covers all parts of the value chain in the forest and forestry industries. The center party wants to bet on the maritime industry. We believe that there is a clear link between Norwegian seafarers and maritime nutrition. The centre party will therefore strengthen and legislate the net pay scheme. In addition, we want to give the scheme a more comprehensive name by changing the name of the entry to ‘Actions to ensure real competence in the maritime sector’. That's what this is about. In the field of aquaculture, the government promises gold and blue seas to the farming municipalities. According to the government, an increase in biomass should provide EUR 540 million for the host municipalities. kr in 2015. The process has stopped due to disagreement with the industry, and I hope that during the debate the Minister for Fisheries can confirm or cancel that the municipalities will see something about this money in 2015. As far as fisheries are concerned, we have a challenge in the profitability of the fishing industry. We're waiting for the so-called Maritime Industry Committee. The centre party would strongly warn the Minister for Fisheries against using this as an opportunity to reverse both the participation law and the fishing laws. The construction work does not become stronger by removing the support beams. Within the agricultural sector, the Centre Party has opted to add half a billion extra to the farm settlement, because we believe that the agreement reached last year by the Stortinge does not provide good enough income growth to ensure increased food production. The centre party expects the settlement of spring to bring about a real reduction in the income gap between farmers and other groups. At least I assume that the Minister of Agriculture has understood that the Stortinget does not support the government's agricultural policy. In order to achieve the goal set by the Stortinget of increasing food production based on Norwegian resources, the Centre Party considers it necessary to invest in agricultural research and proposes an increase of 150 million. kr for the purpose. The centre party continues to make a strong commitment to animal welfare and has made use of the means to follow up the action plan against antibiotic resistance. We record that the Council of State states that she does not want such an action plan. I think the Storting to next year will come to another conclusion. The centre party has a number of individual issues that will benefit business: facilitating the levy on the food industry, strengthening the horse industry by reducing the toaliser charge, continuing the cooperation agreement and the office agreement, among others. 4H, where the government runs principles and throws the organizations out of its offices. The Central Party's alternative budget ensures value creation throughout the country. I'm addressing the suggestions in the setting that the Center Party is behind. Int. Ninety-six S, you got it. 926 by an incubator entered. It's not supposed to be there.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e179	So let's take note of that. The representative Geir Pollestad has taken up the suggestions he made. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e186	I agree with the chairman of the committee that this is going to be the debate that shows that the government has abandoned the active industrial policy and with a great deal of weight is moving into passive business policy. What surprises many of us is that the government parties now had a great chance of lifting, among other things. the forest industry in Norway as a good alternative to what we will live on in the future. We've seen this, for example. by cutting the proposal in terms of both research and development and wood-based industries, but not least by not grasping what is even in the government platform related to taxation, where the government platform says that it should at least propose a reduction in the profit tax on the sale of forest properties. It might be interesting to hear if the Center Party also supports – as I understand it – the Christian People's Party, the Workers' Party and soon a majority on the Stortinget, who also want what is actually on the government platform, but on which the government does not deliver, namely to reduce the profit tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e191	The effort on the forest industry is clear in our alternative budget. As I said in my post, it goes on all over the food chain, among other things. forest planting – some of them shaking their heads over government proposals for limited planting and later evaluation of whether the forest bounded CO2 – so we have a much more offensive effort on forests. I would also like to draw up various instruments to develop new technologies and new uses of forests. It is clear that the challenge for both forest and agricultural industries is the marketing of properties. The government's answer is to repeal the concession law. I have no faith in it, it brings great disadvantages. As far as tax is concerned, the Central Party supports reducing the tax on the marketing of forest properties and agricultural properties, and we hope that we can get a majority in favour of this on the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e203	Under the previous government, agricultural land was reduced, the proportion of land rented increased, the level of self-sufficiency decreased, the average age of farmers increased, and 180 years worked left the industry. What is the Central Party's answer to the fact that all the arrows pointed in the wrong direction, even with the Central Party Council?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e208	Now this debate is basically about next year's budget, but if you want to talk about the past, I'd like to do so, because I'm proud of what the Central Party got into government when we sat down with the Minister of Agriculture. Some of the government parties now want to present it as if nothing happened on the farm during these eight years. The truth is that there has been a formidable increase in efficiency that no other industry in this country can point to. Uses got bigger, they became more effective, and we had a real willingness to bet on the necessary industry framework. It was adding up to a growth in income for the industry of agricultural production at a different level than what you see today. We wanted to stand up to ensure that agriculture had active customs protection, and we had a restrictive soil protection policy. In fact, we ended up achieving the goals we had set. The central part of the government is the best that can happen to Norwegian food production.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e215	What's the reason why all the arrows pointed in the wrong direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e220	It's natural that a person gets a drop in the number of farmers. That right now it presents as a problem, yes, it gets to the right. It's a natural development. Then I have to say that the arrows and the efficiency probably went too fast. I do not think that the policy that today's government stands for will slow down. I think it will push the pace further, especially when looking at the government's proposal to repeal the concession law, which will lead to new owners in agriculture. It'll be unfortunate. When you see that they add to an income policy that increases the differences between farmers and other groups, it's in the wrong direction. One has seen some concrete examples of soil protection. In addition to the fact that the government has concluded that other considerations will prevail over food production, we have seen a Minister of Agriculture who has been foremost in toasting and cheering for that to happen. I think that's very unfortunate. Now I hope that someone takes this more seriously and adds a new policy to take care of something of the utmost importance to ensure future food production, namely our food base.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e229	The Food Authority is doing an important job, and it is right that the Food Authority should, among other things, use resources on good animal welfare and antibiotic resistance. In the budget setting, I record that, among other things, The centre party wants a change in the name of the Food Authority. It has been said that such a change of name will result in enormous costs, among other things. through legislative changes and changes in several hundred, perhaps thousands, regulations. Is the name so important for the Central Party that they are willing to prioritize the use of $10 million for a name change instead of the Food Authority working with animal welfare and antibiotic resistance?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e237	Our proposal to change the name of the Food and Veterinary Authority is justified by the fact that we want to raise awareness that the Food Authority has important food tasks, but they are also our animal police and have an important task within it. Then it's important that the name also reflects this. What we've also discussed is how much this will cost. Now I hope that we can get more suggestions on the price of this in the future, and that will also be included in the assessment. But I would remind you that today we are actually dealing with a proposal that gets a majority, where we spend 43 million. kr in the year's budget to get rid of between 40 and 50 employees in Innovation Norway, so I think one should be a little careful about criticising the use of money in someone else's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e244	The representative Pollestad said in his statement that the Centre Party will ‘take the whole country into service’ and that the Centre Party has invested in a massive forest package with the entire spectrum. There is much to be seen in this forest package from the Center Party in relation to what the Christian People's Party has presented. My question to the representative Pollestad goes on this by facilitating the creation of a market for biofuels. I see that in the whole package where you have the whole spectrum, the Centre Party has chosen not to mention this with interference, to increase the requirement for interference. It is precisely to facilitate a market by removing the user charge for biodiesel that meets the EU sustainability criteria, but it does not increase the requirement for inclusion. My question to Pollestad is: Why does the Center Party not choose to do so – and lie ahead here?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e253	Our forest package is diverse – a strong commitment to the environmental technology system. There are many things that are not in it, which are also important. The fact that Avinor is a driver for the development and use of biofuels on aeroplanes is one example. I think we need to work on a wide range of things. Then I feel that in the setting there is a great degree of convergence between the views of the Christian People's Party and those of the Center Party. However, there is no doubt that increased use of biofuels in the transport sector is important, and an increased integration requirement is a good proposal. I think when we get the issue of bioeconomy, our positions are not absolutely locked. We want to find good solutions together with the Christian People's Party. I'm absolutely sure we'll do that, because I feel that we have a common goal to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e260	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e263	For the Workers' Party, ensuring work is a primary priority for all. This requires a responsible economic policy, the use of oil money being adapted to the situation in the Norwegian economy. The Labour Party is concerned about the high and increasing use of oil money by the government. The state budgets for 2014 and 2015 are the most expansive in recent times, with the exception of particularly difficult years for the Norwegian economy. The Labour Party pursues an active enterprise policy to contribute to strong value creation, full employment and good wealth development. We want to continue and strengthen the industrial policy we pursued in the government, with our own efforts in the maritime industry, the marine sector, environmental technologies, travel and energy sectors. We are notifying new investments in this budget. We see that growth across the country is important. Even though we're still going to benefit from the oil at the depths of the sea, we also have to be far-sighted enough to see where we're going to get the big revenue in the future, once the oil ends. What we know is that there will be less oil revenue in the long term, more mouths to saturation, and more elderly people to care for, and each employee will almost have to create more values to safeguard the common well-being that we want. So the problem we're going to be dealing with is demanding. We need to think new and innovative, and we need to use up-to-date expertise to boost innovation in both the public and private sectors. In the Workers' Party, we see the possibility that the bioeconomy can become the new oil in the long term. By investing in the industrial sectors of health technology, marine industry, forestry and agriculture, linked to research and development environments, we can face the future in an offensive way. The OECD notes that the bioeconomy will be a key element of Europe's economy within 40 years. In many ways, we are facing a new industrial revolution in which we in Norway have good prerequisites to assert ourselves, given that we have large natural resources, a suitable industrial structure, a strong economy, a highly educated workforce and not least a significant amount of research. The challenges in the innovation systems are low rates of bio-based start-up companies from research and development environments at present. What exists has little access to risk capital and often does not survive long enough to attract private capital or purchase industrial players. In order to create environments where there is good and attractive access to all inputs related to research and development, which both start-up companies and established companies need, we have chosen to invest 200 million. kr more than the government of the eco-technology system, a system that we established and that became a desirable system – which we think is more of what works. We come with South Africa lab, a commitment that is important to help small and medium-sized enterprises enter pilot and test facilities, and not least university competence. We are taking the initiative for Process 21, which is a research and development strategy effort in the process industry. We'll give 200 million. kr more than the agricultural government. Here we have, among other things: also focused on a separate forest package and on research and development. We are focusing on a marine value creation program, which builds up under research and development throughout the value chain of the marine food industry. It's important. And we're bringing 250 million. kr to a dedicated accelerator program, which strengthens early-stage capital entrepreneurs and connects them to clusters, TTOs and incubators. The Labour Party considers it essential to pursue an industrial policy that ensures competitive framework conditions for Norwegian enterprises. Many rates within cyclical industries, which are influenced by many external factors. Active enterprise policies, with targeted measures, are therefore important – not least in the power-intensive industry. The purchasing consortium, which was set up by us to ensure the possibility of coordinating long-term power agreements, was now removed by the government. The government has made several changes in business, which they have taken out on the so-called simplification card, but which have not been knowledge-based. These include changes in the VAT ceiling, structural measures in the fisheries sector and cuts in the agricultural aid scheme. We in the Workers' Party believe that our commitment to an active industrial policy with growth across the country will provide far more new and secure jobs than the government's business-neutral and more absent line in terms of district profile. Finally, I am promoting the proposal of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e297	The representative Else-May Botten has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e302	During eight years with a red-green government, we warned very strongly about the strange cost growth we saw, and that was detached from the productivity growth in the Norwegian economy. But when I read the Workers' Party's main comment in the financial position, I was even more surprised, for there it said: «Cross lending rates in the last few years have helped to improve relative cost levels compared to trading partners. This is inter alia a consequence of the responsible budgetary policy of the previous year.» Now we see that the crown is almost competing with the oil in falling. Does the representative Botten also believe that the krone price is a good judgment over eight years with red-green policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e314	The business policy we followed that is related to the economy was incredibly good when we ran. We showed that very well when the financial crisis came to an end. Providing concrete packages of measures in the financial sector and what was targeted at the industry was incredibly important. And I believe that when we got 350,000 new jobs during the period we were driving, it shows that we were at least not heading in the wrong direction and had the wrong course. I believe that this is proof that both the industrial policy and the economic policy we conducted were important and reasonably responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e319	I record that you do not want to answer the question. For this with nutritious packages: I registered in the line change that Storberget called for the government's ability to lift the forest industry, and Pollestad was proud of what it had done. Then I remember that in the red-green period, in fact, the number of employees in Norwegian timber processing was halved, and the level of activity ranged from being a net importer of timber to being a net exporter of timber – i.e. a commodity-based economy. Now more activity is demanded from a government that is very conscious of the issue of transportation, which is the first of every three-processing industry to ask for. This applies both to primary and general forest use. Is the development of forestry, with a red-green industrial policy, a good example of the Active Business Policy of the Workers Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e328	I am very pleased that the representative addresses what is involved in the forest industry, because I have heard the representative Gundersen very many times in this room being quite clear that he is concerned about the forest industry. Then I believe that this budget is an excellent opportunity to show that he actually stands for it. I believe that we have done what we have done to bet on, among other things. Timber ports, is about infrastructure and is a very important grip. We also put in a big bet on roads, because you have to move the timber from the forest and where it is going. But what is also important in our forest package is what we have done about research and development. The profit tax, which the government in its platform has promised not to deliver, shows that you do not stand for what you say – at least not in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e339	It was a total accumulation which in June 2013 adopted Melding. St. 32 for 2012–2013 – Between Heaven and Earth: Norwegian space activities for industry and utility – where Norwegian participation in Copernicus is supported and recommended. There is still an overall nutrition committee behind it, and it is likely that today there is also an overall increase behind it. My question to the representative Botten relates to the Workers' Party's approach to this. I have registered in the media and I see that in their alternative state budget they have budgeted 50 million. kr to Copernicus. However, participation in the Copernicus European space programme costs 167 million. kr. Has the Workers' Party got a separate agreement with ESA, is there something forgotten, or is it simply another calculation error?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e347	It's funny to hear this from the government, who didn't put any effort on it, until they got pressure from the Left and Christian People's Party to get this in. The answer to this is simply that in the new aging, which is now available and to be adopted before Christmas, all parties are involved in that bet. That's because we have to be involved in building up our space industry. We're an important nation here -- we're leading. I would also like to say that having a hand on the steering wheel with regard to what goes on in the environment and climate, and being able to retrieve the information that we are concerned about related to this, is very important. It doesn't help if the satellite is on over France, but not over the northern areas, which are important to us. In fact, we're very proud that we're continuing and we've been calmed down with regard to the Copernicus bet. It was incredibly important.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e352	In the budget configuration, the Workers' Party promotes a modified model of the net pay scheme. I guess that's $30 million. kr that the Workers' Party places on the table is that which is intended to cover the State's share in terms of Color Line or in terms of NOR – Norwegian Ordinary Skip Register. But I want to look a little bit further than just until 2015, because the net pay system is very important for this industry. That is why I am interested in knowing what the economic impact for 2016 will be for the state, shipping companies and organisations, in order for this scheme to be both competitive and sustainable.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e357	That's a very good question. I have to start by saying that it is important for the competitiveness and competitiveness of the seafarers to have the net pay system, and that it is strengthened, I think it is essential to keep the pressure up. But we're not done there. This is a discussion that is going to take place in ours, and which is quite exciting in terms of arrangements for the net pay scheme in the future. It is also the case that mariners’ organisations now have an investigation into finding the room for action in the case of Norwegian pedestal and pay terms in the future — which can also help to give greater room for lifting those who will be under the scheme. When it comes to the very thing about Color Line, it's that this is important to get the promise, be up many times. If measures are to be taken to prevent deflagration there, this must be done now. It is too late to deal with it in the next budgetary round, because they are on their way out.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e366	Unlike the representatives from the Right who have been up here today, I see this as a debate on the state budget for 2015 and not an evaluation of the government of Stoltenberg II, so my question points forward. The majority of the Committee has said that Norwegian food production is to be increased on the basis of Norwegian resources. So it's a majority of the committee that's behind this, everyone except the Right Party and the Advance Party. It presupposes a willingness to use some means. For the Centre Party, balancing income differences between farmers and other groups is an important tool. My question to the Workers' Party is whether they agree that there is a goal of balancing – reducing – the income differences between farmers and other groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e373	However, I am a little tempted to go back in time and say something about what we – the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV – did when we were in government. I believe that the focus we had on farmers' incomes then became very clear in the settlement in 2013. I certainly believe that we agree to find good ways to balance differences, and to focus on good incomes being important to farmers in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e378	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e381	The media image is clear: the oil has given us a long period of shine, but its pull will hardly be the same again. Now Norway must be armed for new times. We can no longer continue the peculiar cost growth detached from productivity development, which we saw under the previous government. The budget in place is a change in the pace of competitiveness. It must be created before it is distributed. Transport is therefore a priority. There is something all the businesses around the country are asking for. Therefore, ownership is stimulated. Good, competent and professional ownership is central to value creation. The private, diverse and locally based ownership is the cornerstone of an innovative and forward-looking business, and thus of jobs and well-being. We're betting on knowledge. As the Prime Minister so aptly has said, it is our future oil. We have a research and innovation effort that is corporate, and that was demanded under the red-green, but never prioritised. We're betting on the BIA and the Tax Fund, and through the budget agreement, we've also received two seed funds, which together with private individuals will generate 600 million. kr in capital. The start-up grant scheme and the Eco-Technology scheme raise the stake through Innovation Norway. Here are a lot of things that business has wanted for many years. The government will establish a regulatory board and has also stepped up the focus on simplification. Competition policy is important for the effective use of societal resources. It is important that competition supervision is effective and independent, and the aim is to be among the world's leading. The Norwegian seafood industry contributes a lot of food to a growing world population. We want predictable, sound and sustainable growth in an industry that has enormous potential and that really contributes to jobs along the coast. Agriculture is important for large parts of the country, and we continue to focus on providing framework conditions that stimulate those who want to invest and create their future in agriculture to do so. There are already more signs that we're doing better than the previous government with this. This is a very good budget for competitiveness. We've been able to prioritize what's needed to promise value creation. I record that the red-greens live well on our priorities and have a lot of money to distribute. Nutrient neutrality is a word that is repeated in the comments and that has been a repetition, both in previous speeches and in previous budget debates. But this budget is far from neutral in industry. It contains nutritious bets, for which the red-greens never found room, such as – to mention something – inflation adjustment of the ceiling of the net pay scheme, a strong effort on forest roads and the removal of biodiesel tax through the budget agreement. This last should really produce a bad conscience for the red-greens if you study history. I want to point out what I did in and of course also mentioned in the linecode exchange: the tracks after the Workers' Party and the Red-Greens' active business policy do not contribute very much to confidence. I think that when you talk about an active business policy, you should also clarify what you don't want to bet on. It is in the same priority. There is a very clear difference between this government and the previous one. We have faith in the local ownership. We believe that local capital likes to invest locally, and that belonging means something, even when capital is to be invested. Call it that we believe in «patriot capital» as an important building block for local business. There we want away from the active worker party discrimination of Norwegian private and local ownership and the belief that the state or non-residents are setting out whether the locals are not there. We just think that's exceptional. There is a risk to bet on the exemptions. Competitiveness will be the theme for the future. I'm pretty sure of that. We're facing some new challenges. We have to be more effective. We have to be smarter. We have to be more innovative than our competitors. We do that by renewing, improving and simplifying it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e402	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e405	Here I had expected a lot more power in the posts of the representative, Gundersen. This was a little concrete. We hear that we need to equip Norway for a new future. We agree with that, but we should not have fought for a long time with the representative Gundersen and his colleagues in the Right Party before the red-greens got the smooth layer, especially with regard to the bets on the industries to take over when the oil business has to escalate. Forestry is thus a good example. We hear that the representative Gundersen is more concerned with talking about the story than talking about what to do in the future. This was proposed by the government in the field of forestry: cutting research and development, cutting incentives for wood-based industries; we see a poor investment in infrastructure compared to all the other parties in the Stortinget, which are significantly higher. So it's nearby for me to ask, what's wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e414	I wonder if the representative Storberget and I have read the same budget, and if we are listening to the same industry, because it is something that you meet out there, it is, of course, that it is a general movement effort that is the most important thing. And that's the focus on competitiveness. Having framework conditions that are in line with foreign industry is the most important thing here. The government is very concrete. We are playing enormously on research and development. There is no reason why forestry and agriculture should not otherwise compete in the general competition for research funds, but also specifically focus on agricultural programmes. It's on forest roads, which we've been to before. That's where we've increased our bet enormously. Getting the products to the market is the most important thing for an industry that manages Norwegian raw materials, with Norwegian costs, and that is to sell it on the international market.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e421	I expected the representative Gunnar Gundersen to help us get a proposal from the government that raised the posts that you have almost slaughtered the red-greens for having had too bad a stake in the past. Research and development in the field of soil and forest are, of course, demonstrably cut short in the government's proposal. The entries to stimulate more use of wood are cut. One of the most important things in the argument from the Right in the opposition was that we had to get more sales of forest properties to get larger units. It is even stated in the government platform that they want to reduce the forest holding gains by selling. Now, it's obviously a majority in the Biggest for this. The Labour Party is in favour of it, the Christian People's Party is in favour of it, yet the government does not promote this. What's the reason for that?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e429	There were really two questions. Again, I would like to refer to competitiveness – the most important for an export-oriented industry based largely on Norwegian costs. Focusing on the overall competitiveness, I asked for eight years with a red-green government. I did it in election matches and I'm very recognizable there. So it's this with the turnover of forest. There is nothing to suggest that the government platform should be honoured in a year. And we have the Scheel Committee, which has now made its report – after the state budget was presented. I see it as quite natural that the government has waited with that kind of tax treatment until then, but I also feel quite confident that you will comply with the government platform, and it says that the capital tax is going down on the sale of forest properties. I'm amazed you didn't do anything about this in eight years. It's not like this is an unknown requirement. Once again, I would like to point out that we are using a freedom created by this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e438	I want to continue where the representative, Gundersen, has now relaxed in terms of profit taxation on forest properties. No, there is nothing to suggest that the entire government platform should have been implemented in one year. Most of us understand that. But when there is such a clear wording in the government platform about a tax case, it makes someone sit on the fence that might have sold. I am pleased that the representative is confident that the government will deliver on this, but I still want to challenge the representative of Gundersen in terms of expectations – about when the representative of Gundersen, the representative of Hämdal and the representative of Storberget and other representatives can be allowed to vote for a change in the tax on forest property.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e443	I will first praise the Christian People's Party for their commitment to forest. I think that's very good, and it turns out in a number of areas. I believe that the government clearly sees such a formulation in a government platform doing exactly what the representative Hemdal is into – it makes many people sit and wait. I am absolutely sure that you see in the government, and I expect that point in the government statement to find its clarification quite quickly. That's all I can say.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e448	I see that the representative Gundersen is flourishing when he talks about red-green politics, but he is not as offensive when he has to defend his own party's policy. I understand that, because when we look at the proposals of the Right and the Advance Party, it is a cut in the Marine Value Creation Programme, a cut in the tourism industry, increased VAT limits on online trade that will go beyond shops and Norwegian online dealers, a cut in the EU space programme, a cut in the self-governing industry – the industry was actually just cut off – cut off organisations, cut off agricultural research. The threshold for VAT registration for enterprises was increased — there were strong reactions from business to it. When one comes to treasure, which the Right has been high and dark on in the matter of forest, one now stands here pointing to the Scheel range. That is very little relevant. My question is, When can we expect the Right to actually come with a grip in terms of reducing the tax on the sale of forestry property?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e453	Then I'll refer to the previous answer. I don't think I can elaborate anything more than that. But I'm responding to the very starting point for the representative Pollestad's questions. As I said, the budget is very offensive. I think it's a budget that describes and meets the challenges Norway faces. We have faith in a little bit of other means. We stimulate some instruments that the red-greens ignored, and then we switch from some things to others. This is a perfectly normal budgetary process. We can't believe the exact same grips as the red-green ones. But, as I said, the budget is very offensive in terms of competitiveness, to bet on transport, on investing in research and development, on what matters to our future competitiveness.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e458	This budget is not offensive to industrial development; it is offensive to differences. Now the OECD has confirmed that even today's differences we lose 9 pst. of our growth per year, and the government's proposal increases the differences. That means it's getting worse. I want to challenge the representative, Gundersen, especially in the forest industry and especially in industrialisation. Because that is what is needed in Norway. We cannot settle for the fact that it is okay that the timber prices are high in Sweden and that we can sell our timber there. We have to have some other ambitions than that. For this reason, SV has submitted a proposal to be voted on in a few days' time, in which the forest industry agrees as a matter of urgency – we have asked them. We've asked all the forest owners' organizations. This relates to depreciation rates on depreciation in industry. We need to increase them, so that we can increase industrialisation, perhaps especially in wood-based industries in Norway. Will the Right support such a proposal, for which the industry is in favour?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e465	Again, the Scheel committee has come up with its investigation, and there are some depreciation rates. I expect it will go its way, it will be sent out to the hearing, and the government will look at it. I can't forge any grips on very special investments. Incentives to investment are very good. Perhaps the strongest catch that comes from the forest industry is that one should be offensive in terms of biodiesel farming. There are several environments that are now considering a strong focus on biodiesel. Since the red-green ila biodiesel fee, that whole development stopped. Here the government has made a very concrete proposal that is just about to develop new industry in this segment in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e470	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e473	Norway is made up of many important industries, and one of the most important industries is the maritime industry. It is very important for national value creation, and it is also an industry that has long traditions. It is an industry that is located throughout the country, and has great significance in many communities, some places more than others. But it is also an industry that is under enormous international competition. The Norwegian fleet is one of the world's largest – it's probably the fifth largest, measured in value. It employs over 100,000 people and creates values for over 160 billion. kr. It goes without saying that such an industry must have a good framework, with strong international competition. The net pay scheme is such an instrument. It has not been adjusted since 2008, and it is therefore a pleasure to note that for 2015 the government proposes a price adjustment of the ceiling compared to the expected price increase in 2015. Eight years of red-green passivity are gone. We're doing some work to raise this industry forward to meet the strong international competition. It is incredibly important that the framework conditions for Norwegian maritime competence in relation to other countries are respected, and so does this government. It is also reassuring to know that in March 2014, the government reduced its own party-consolidated selection that reviewed operating area limitations for ships in Norwegian waters registered in the Norwegian International Ship Register. The sample also assessed the scheme of the net pay scheme. The sample delivered its report to the government in September, and it is natural that the government has not included it in the government budget. I would like to show that the government is going to come up with a strategy for the spring in which good action is to be taken. Then I register that some of the opposition parties want to advance the overall debate by including some suggestions and comments in the vote today. I choose to take a positive view of that, and I only use it as a reason that you are impatient to strengthen the conditions of competition. But it's also interesting that you sat for eight years and didn't do anything about it. Another industry that goes well is the tourism industry. Figures in the last few days show a significant increase in the number of tourists arriving in Norway. As I come from North Norway, of course, it is extra happy that the biggest increase is in the north, and I must honestly say that I understand very well. When you're home and you hear the whale blowing out in the sun and seeing the northern lights in the sky, you're privileged. I am pleased that there are many tourists who believe the same thing, and that industry actors have succeeded in putting a good idea in this way. There is often talk of how much government contributes to the marketing of Norway as a tourist destination. I just want to remind you that the industry itself represents the largest marketing in the job that has been done. In the setting, we refer here to two companies, Norwegian and Hurtigruten. We could have shown many, many more companies doing a significant job to market Norway as a tourist destination, and I think we should all appreciate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e488	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e491	I noticed that in the article there was a theme that was not mentioned at all, and I think I understand why. But I have a very simple question for the representative: What is the Progress Party's agricultural policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e497	The agricultural policy of the Progress Party has been debated many times in this Chamber. What is perhaps more interesting now is the agricultural policy that the government is pursuing, because the Progress Party is part of the government. Then I will refer to the debate we had in this Chamber on the agricultural situation in ours. It was clear what the government's agricultural policy was. In short, it aims to strengthen the industry, to strengthen those who produce food, to strengthen those who produce cereals, and to do something by betting on larger units.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e504	A strengthening of those who produce food in agriculture – I thought all the food produced in agriculture, but we can only do that if we do. But I ask again: what is the agricultural policy of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e509	Agriculture policy for the Progress Party – if it is the most interesting – can be found in the party programme. What has been common in the debate since the entry of the Progress Party into the government is to discuss the agricultural policy that the Progress Party, together with the Right, is in connection with our being in government. It has been debated many times, and if I got any questions, I might wish they were more concrete than general. But what we want is to get a robust nourishment that's on its own, that produces good and safe food. There the government has made a number of grips, among other things. reducing red tape, facilitating increased food production and bringing about larger units.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e514	Norway is an important maritime nation, and the representative of Korsberg has, and has long had, a high level of involvement in the net pay scheme. I'll label it. Then the representative of Korsberg shows in his contribution to the price adjustment of the net pay scheme that is happening, which is very good. He indicated that until spring there will also be a strategy from the government in the maritime area. Based on the involvement of the representative Korsberg, I have a challenge in being involved in raising the net pay regime further, and if the representative sees the need to adjust the net pay regime, not just adjust it, as we do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e521	That, I think, is a question we're going to come back to when the government presents its strategy. I have, as Mr. Hemdal says, a strong commitment and have enough personal desires. I think I'll leave it today even if it's Christmas soon. But I see it as most important that so many steps are taken to strengthen the maritime industry that it will be strengthened competitively. My commitment, and what I've meant before, I think is a good starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e526	It was interesting to hear the answer on the agricultural policy of the Progress Party. A reduction in red tape was also mentioned. I think I understood Ørsal Johansen earlier today saying that there were hundreds of thousands of prescriptions where the Food Authority was mentioned. I think that might have been a slightly high number. But when the government boasts a lot of its simplification work, I ask myself the question: What does this mean for Norwegian farmers? And then I ask: will the representative of Korsberg estimate, after a year in government, that Norwegian farmers on average have saved more than half an hour or less on the simplification measures of the Progress Party? Then I don't think a day, I don't think a week, I don't think a month, but I think, have they saved more than 30 minutes a year?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e533	I think it might be a little early to sum up how much time each farmer has saved, and how much you have saved in costs. To that end, this government, as the representative Pollestad knows for sure, has not been sitting long enough. But the most important thing about simplification work, whether it is in the agricultural industry or other industries, is to start the process of making it easier to be self-employed and simply to be a businessman. This government has done well. We've started on a long run. There's a big bureaucracy that can be reduced, there's a lot of work that can be done in the area of simplification, and this government is doing it. I recommend that the representative Pollestad take the same line for next year. Then I'll be able to answer more specifically, because then we've been in government for so long that you've had a whole year of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e543	Copernicus-saka has been a very special thing to follow, and I think it's quite illustrative of how the government thinks. When the government came up with the very perceptive message that someone wanted to withdraw from this program, the questions began to fall in: What is the reason? Is it because you're so eager for nutrition neutrality that a jump out of this? Is it because an unsupported project with a top gravity is located in the north, that one won't support this? Is it simply because one is against the environment, that one will not support this? This is an industry that depends on some type of data where Norway is world-leading, where we're fighting way above our own weight class. Does not the government intend to see gold when standing right in front of it? So my question, after the partners have managed to save this agreement, is, can this industry experience new government estimates in time?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e550	Let me take the opportunity to thank the Christian People's Party and the Left for constructive contributions to the negotiations we have had, where we have received the Copernicus programme. Clearly, the Copernicus programme is an important programme. What you do by going in with these means is you also agree to be in charge of the program, and it's an advantage to be in charge. But what is perhaps the most important thing to remember throughout this budgetary process is that under eight years with a red-green government, there was not a single penny in the budget negotiations; it was not really negotiations. They had hearings – up and down in all committees – but they didn't move a single penny. Now we have reopened democracy with real hearings, with good recordings being heard, and there are also changes being made, and I am proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e557	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e561	A wise man gave me advice in 2005, when I was nominated for Stortinget. The Council was: make sure the next generation! It's about being the good administrator today and managing today's values, and it's about creating values that the next generation can benefit from. Norway is an oil nation. Oil is one of the main reasons for our well-being growth in the last 40 years. A world-class supplier industry has helped with the enormous value creation. We have become rich in oil, but also vulnerable, and vulnerability has become increasingly evident. The oil price has fallen by 40 pst. since the summer. We have also had a sharp fall in oil prices last night. It characterizes everyday life for people throughout the country, and the Norwegian economy will also have a clear picture of this. That's why it's important that we have more legs to stand on, and that's why there's a significant need to strengthen the industries that can be a good supplement and in the long run also an alternative to the oil. In addition to being an oil nation, we are well positioned in the field of bioeconomy. Biomass can give us food and energy and in addition replace many of the products we today store of oil. Blue and green biomass can form the basis for new jobs and new value creation in the country. With the budgetary agreement, we took important steps to improve the organisation of the bioeconomy in the green sector. We provided an integrated value chain – from forest planting to timber use and research and development through the eco-innovation scheme – to create a market by raising the integration requirement, and we removed the user fee to stimulate sustainable fuel. In the committee’s opinion, the majority’s main comments are that a bioeconomy strategy will be developed in 2015, together with industry and organisations. There are many with me who look forward to the government presenting this strategy. Other industries have also been strengthened through the budget and budgetary conciliation. The maritime industry, which creates values for 160 billion. kr and employmentettes over 100 000, have been strengthened. In the budget agreement, we strengthened the Maritime Directorate to increase the service level of the Norwegian registers in order to get more Norwegian flagged ships in the fence. But also with the price adjustment of the net pay scheme, we have provided for more competitive conditions for the maritime industry. The reconciliation also strengthened the travel industry. Strengthening marketing methods will increase marketing, so that more and more people can see what a great country we have. This split layer between the public and industry is important for the Christian People's Party. It is the future value-generating business that will bear the costs for future generations. Yes, we have to take care of the next generation – it is the generation perspective that must underpin our decisions today. We have to be able to look beyond today's challenges and next year's appropriations. Therefore, we need to focus on future solutions, through increased attention, through innovation, innovation and innovation. That is why I am pleased that, through the budgetary agreement, we have put in place a further strengthening of research and development, innovation and innovation. We strengthened agricultural research, marine research, FORNY2020, Siva and the environmental technology system, and we set up new seed funds. This is an important step in promoting new ideas to find tomorrow’s solutions to today’s challenges. That's how we in the main room today can secure the future's value creation for the next generation's well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e580	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e583	A building block in our fisheries policy is the participation law, with nationality requirements and activity requirements, said in another way: active fishermen on Norwegian boats. Can the fishermen and the voters trust that the Christian People's Party will call about the participation law in the future as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e590	Thank you for the question. As we say in our remark on the Ministry of Fisheries, we ‘want to strengthen the profitability of the fishing industry and secure a fishing industry with anchoring in the districts’. This was demonstrated in concrete terms by the fact that in our alternative budget we adjusted the fishing deduction and strengthened the lead grant. As far as the law of participants is concerned, we have programmed that it should be continued. But so it is that the Tveterås selection comes with its setting next week. I think it would be natural to take into account the recordings that come there. I also have a expectation that one of the parties that put down this sample will take into account the recommendations that are coming, and not just draw bastant conclusions until we know the conclusions on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e599	I can use some of the line to give some honey. I would like to do that to the representative of the Christian People's Party, especially in relation to bio-economic thinking. That's what I think is very good, and I'm glad that the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, especially as regards the development of the forest, are united on many of the important proposals, especially at a time when we see that the government parties are failing. In this sense, it is gratifying to want to bet on both infrastructure measures to a greater extent than the government is doing and to take fiscal measures. We have a majority comment on this with a bio-economic strategy, which is extremely important. There is also a proposal from the Workers' Party and the Centre to decide to ask the Government to present such a strategy. Will the Christian People's Party consider voting for this proposal during the day?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e606	Thank you for the question and thank you for the good words. It is always good to hear that you feel that the work you do is appreciated. With regard to the specific proposal, therefore, it is a note – as I pointed out in my speech – that a majority wants a bioeconomy strategy, which the government will develop in cooperation with industry and organisations. As the representative of Storberget knows, we have a minority government. I think a minority government listens to a majority in the Storting, and then it makes a note to get this strategy developed by the government, in cooperation with organizations and the business community.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e613	The government has ambitious goals to strengthen Norwegian competitiveness and has received good leverage from the Christian People's Party in the budget for it. Several have pointed out that the bioeconomy can provide new and high growth opportunities for the development of good new economic activities in Norway. The government is actively working on this issue, and in this year's budget there is an increase in the marine biostrategy of 1 million. NOK, and we are now up for an annual consumption of SEK 5 million. kr in the context of the marine bioeconomy strategy. We have done this by re-prioritizing within, among others. Marine value creation program. My question is: can the representative be busy with the green bioeconomy, for which she has been asked, which also certainly has great potential, but can the Christian People's Party support that one in a way re-prioritizes within agriculture its resources and resources in order to start up and spend more money on a bioeconomic strategy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e620	Thank you very much for your question. Yes, the Christian People's Party is concerned that we are increasing competitiveness. The Christian People's Party is concerned that a bioeconomy strategy must focus on both green and blue biomass. That is why this note is also set within the budget area of both the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries and is intended to market it. I think 2015 will be a very important year for blue biomass. From Tuesday on, when we get the Tveterås committee, this committee, the government and this whole industry are going to work a lot in the blue sector. I'm sure that now that we're going through that sector, there's also funds there. Research and development are important to the government, so we find new funds to achieve a good bioeconomy strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e627	I would also like to begin by commending the Christian People's Party for the efforts they made to reverse many cuts in the state budget – proposals on which we support the Christian People's Party. But at one point – a little point – I was wondering something. We have a self-governing industry in Norway that has been under strong international pressure. It's got $12 million. kr annually. It has sat four parties and negotiated, Right, Advance Party, Left and Christian People's Party. All four parties are for us to have a self-gang diet in Norway. Nevertheless, the conclusion was that the subsidy was cut off and probably means the end of the self-governing industry. Then my question is: is this only economically justified, or was it in the debate on this issue of the Brussels press and what would serve Norway's position in Brussels?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e636	Thank you for the question. As the representative Pollestad knows, we have in our alternative budget, as the Central Party, that we want to maintain the grant to self-afraid of $12 million. kr, because we believe it is important to ensure a balance in the ecosystem and sustainable management of our marine resources. That is our starting point, and that is why we also fought for this in the negotiations with the government. But we didn't succeed. I believe with my heart I can say that at least I have not heard that threats from Brussels were arguments as to why we did not succeed, but that it was simply economic. Yeah, that's $12 million. kr. – there’s little money in the big picture, but it’s $12 million. NOK – and we did not get them in place. But this is important in an overall ecological exploitation of marine resources, so we'll see if we have to get back to this at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e647	I hear the representative of the Christian People's Party says they trust the government to listen to majority comments on the Stortinget. I have to say that after various things in this area, both with ostetoll and asylum children, one should perhaps understand that one must be clearer than that in order to get to the bets you need. I understand that it’s heavy work’, as we say in Hedmark, the job that the Christian People’s Party and the Left have taken on. Now the representative was challenged here instead in the forest industry, which is experiencing great cutbacks in research on the use of wood. It's worrying. However, it is also incredibly important to maintain confidence in Norwegian food production. One of the major debate themes now is antibiotic resistant bacteria in chicken production. SV believes that we need to set a time limit for this to be free and will propose it today. Can the Christian People's Party plan to support that proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e657	To the question, yes, I think the representative may have more experience in the last eight years with what is hard work than the undersigned has. The experience of the undersigned over the eight years is that all the thoughts and suggestions made by the representative were not even evaluated, because they were so easy that they did not get any agreement. As regards antibiotics and food production, it is an important area. So the question is whether we're doing the right thing by adopting a deadline now when it comes to knowing what we're going to have in place. It's not always that a deadline is the most important thing, it's getting action, so that we get the safety of our consumers, that we don't get sick or infected, and that we don't have animals that suffer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e664	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e667	As we lower production on the Norwegian base and lower oil prices, we know that the Norwegian economy needs to undergo a conversion process. The question is just how fast this process can get started, so we can avoid a long descent. A successful process of conversion that makes us less dependent on the oil sector, and which provides access to skilled labour in other sectors, can help lift important Norwegian export industries such as fisheries and aquaculture and also the tourism industry. These are industries that will play a crucial role in value creation in future Norway. The left considers that targeted action is needed to succeed in this green transition. This applies, inter alia, to: use of the public instrument, increased access to capital, business simplification and a commitment to research and innovation. In the alternative budget of the Left, we therefore called for a new industrial policy to facilitate the conditions for entrepreneurs and the diversity of value-creating businesses throughout the country. We want to unleash creativity and creativity. We'll bet on entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs. The left is committed to strengthening research in industry and to strengthening cooperation between the research environment and business. Not least the regional research communities that are close to business in their region. In the alternative budget of the Left, we propose to strengthen nutrition research by 75 million. kr, in addition to bet on specific programmes with a total of 244.4 million. kr. It is therefore positive that the budgetary agreement contributed to increased appropriations for marine research, the Marine Research Institute's stock research, agricultural research, the User-led Innovation Arena and not least the strengthening of FORNY2020. All of this is important, but I choose to draw our impact on more money for the Marine Research Institute in particular. Ten million. kr extra for stock research, for resource research, is less than it should have been, but one step in the right direction. In our own budget, we had added 20 million. kr extra for stock research. Norwegian fishing industry and the Norwegian community are missing significant value creation as a result of not knowing enough about important fish stocks such as herring and mackerel, as well as some other species of fish. It's not just the fleet side – the fishermen's side – that enjoys it. There is an equal amount of fish buyers on land and the ring-fenced effects of fisheries on the supply industry and the wider community along the coast, whether on the South, on the Moor or in the West. The left has the ambition of 17 pst. food production and consumption in 2020 shall be organic. In this context, we proposed in our alternative budget additional tax deductions for farmers who are or are transferring to organic production, as well as removing VAT on organic food. Our commitment to ecology in agriculture is also reflected in the fact that we fence on Bioforsk's environment for organic research at Tingvoll. We will very strongly underline the need to build up under the ecology environment at Tingvoll, and we are clear on this in a comment on the matter. In addition to being concerned with Tingvoll, we are also concerned that the research environments that are built up in the Bioforsk districts, such as: Poultry in Helgeland, has a central place in future agricultural research. The Government has decided to merge Bioforsk, the Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research and the Norwegian Institute of Forest and Landscape from 1 July 2015. The left believes that such aggregation may make sense, but we do not accept that it should affect viable and prominent research environments in the districts. We'll take care of that. Finally, a few words about a very important matter for the Left: In the budget agreement, the Left was given an impact in order to establish several seed funds in 2015. It is important in order to secure early-stage capital for companies. We had an impact on the exact amounts and proposals we had in the Left in our alternative state budget. We therefore assume that the budgetary agreement means the same thing as the Left's alternative budget, namely a new national seed fund with a total framework of 400 million. kr, and a new pre-seed fund with a total framework of 200 million. kr which gives capital at a single earlier stage than usual seed funds. Before a pre-seed fund can be established, some clarifications need to be made. We therefore assume that the government will come back with these clarifications in the context of the revised National Budget 2015. In this way, we refer to the Left's proposal No. 14, which is to be distributed in the hall, and which I hope will receive the support of the Storting. I'll bring this up with that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e690	The representative of Pål Farstad has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e695	The left has a long and proud history as part of, but also as spokespersons for, the volunteering of Norway. The voluntary nature of Norway was really given a shot at the bow by the government at the time of the presentation of this budget. Something has been tried to straighten out through the conciliation, and that's good. In the case of organisations cooperating in the agricultural industry, they are subject to cuts. They could not continue the cooperation agreement concluded with the Ministry of Agriculture. That is why the members of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party are promoting a proposal today to continue these cooperation agreements, which are very important. I was very happy when I heard the parliamentary leader of the Left in the spontaneous questioning hour describing the government's policy in this area as being almost to strain the bones of non-governmental organisations, and totally unnecessary policies. That is why, with some wonder, I see that the Left is not in this proposal. What's the reason for that?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e702	Thank you for the good words about the good traditions of the Left in this area. I would like to point out that we were able to reverse the cuts in the budget agreement with the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, as well as that we had a total price adjustment of 5.5 million. kr. We do that because we believe that the voluntary organizations are very important, and that this is something the Left wants to build up below.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e707	The budget this year is a good budget, and the left has contributed very well to it. There are a lot of good areas of investment in marine research, in more sustainable aquaculture production and in strengthening stock research, and there is a lot of investment in innovation and entrepreneurship. Only the investment in the eco-innovation scheme is more than twice that made in the last State budget of the Stoltenberg II Government. A lot of this good bet we have in government budget this year is allowed on the government platform. We also hear today that there are many from the opposition who see that there are more good things in the state budget that they lack. Does the Left see multiple things in the government platform that they want to move forward and fight for at the next crossroads?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e714	It is clear that the agreement negotiated last year between the four parties is important for the Left. We also see that the Right and Advance Party, the government parties, have very good policies in the field of research and in a number of other areas related to both the marine sector and other sectors. So, of course, we'll be open to good suggestions that are being made. But what I want to stress very strongly is the hope of bringing the government parties to an even greater stake in the marine sector. At least it's a heart thing for me.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e721	I would first like to thank the Left for constructive and good cooperation in budgetary work. It came very well from the left that we in the government parties greatly appreciated. But there's one thing that amazes me a little bit, and there's one comment in the setting: ‘The members of the Labour Party Committee and the Left request that the Government review the allocation of aid and ensure that organisations such as the NOAH can be supported.’; My question is: the left – and I think all the other parties – is that we should have a good and strong agriculture in Norway, that we should develop agriculture, so how does it rhyme with supporting NOAH, which is actually an organisation that will shut down Norwegian agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e733	All organisations must be consulted. All organisations must be allowed to express what they think, whether it is agricultural policy or other policies. We don't have any trouble listening to what NOAH has to say, like with other organizations. I don't feel that listening to them, that we are responsive to arguments that are not A4 in society, suggests that we will help undermine agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e738	I record that both the Left and the Christian People's Party alternate slightly between referring to what they have done in the agreement and what is in their alternative budgets, whichever is the better. But I'm going to give the Left the same praise that I gave the Christian People's Party for what you've been given – of course it would have been more. In the alternative budget of the Left, there is an item that is quite perceptive, and it goes on the net pay system. We know that the maritime industry is very important for Norway – for jobs and for value creation – and I think few doubt that there is a link between having had and having Norwegian seafarers and having a strong maritime sector. In the alternative budget of the left, there's this point that covers many of the stakes, and here there's a cut of 1.5 billion. kr. What is the Left's reason for that, and how will such a cut contribute to strengthening Norwegian maritime nutrition?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e746	I thank the representative Pollestad for the question. It was not quite unexpected that this could be a question in the hall today. We have chosen not to go for the net pay scheme, because based on an overall assessment, we believe that the shipping companies are able to withstand that taxing, without the net pay scheme. It's after an overall assessment in the left. Then I would like to stress that we are helping to strengthen the maritime industry as the party that wants to strengthen the vocational school – we have a separate post on it in the programme. In addition, we have a part to play in international work to improve the HMS for all those in the maritime industry, for all shipping. So we have something on maritime that we feel that we can be proud of.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e753	When you read the comments on the budget from the Left and Christian People's Party, you have to wonder if they're more concerned with having their hands on the wheel than the boat goes in the right direction. So here's one of the guarantees for a budget where the big stake is easier in the wealth tax for the richest, and where business neutrality is the big investment from the government. Then a read of Left's comments that one is against business neutrality, one has several nutrition rights bets in its budget. So my question to Mr Farstad's representative is very simple: what kind of nutrition cuts the government has brought into its budget is the left least satisfied with?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e758	What's going on in travel life, which we just managed to halve the reversal of, we're not very happy with. But it's a minimum amount that's to live with, and then we get to work on it. We also have an entry on the Marine Value Creation Program that we would have liked to see differently. But the overall picture, with an increase in the research effort, among others And on some other points, this is a good budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e763	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e766	Already in the 1980s SV warned here at Stortinget against an economy where petroleum-based industries dominate too much of the state's income. We meant this in the long term will damage the Norwegian economy and make Norway more vulnerable and less forward-looking. Unfortunately, we got right. Today, 30 years later, petroleum-related industries account for about 70 pst. of Norwegian exports. None of our neighbouring countries or countries we like to compare with are in the vicinity of an equilateral export image. In neither Denmark, Sweden, Germany, the United States nor the United Kingdom, some individual industries represent more than 20 pst. of the export income. We're not as bad as Kuwait, which has over 90 pst. of its revenues relate to petroleum, but we are actually at the same level as the United Arab Emirates, there 67 pst. export income comes from petroleum-related industries. Then it's tragic that only now, 30 years late, the right-hand side starts talking about the Norwegian economy having to be transformed. The reason for that is very simple: it's the market. Oil industries have given many and large Norwegian companies, many jobs, very good incomes and wages. But now the party is over. The oil price drops, the extraction of other forms of energy has become more reasonable. It's getting leaner in the future, a lot of people have already lost their jobs, and more people might be. There is no longer an option to convert. Norway and Norwegian companies have to change or go to the doll. While the government is talking about Norway being sick and being redeployed, there is nothing in this year's budget that asks that a person do something with his sick report. It turns out with phrases like we have to rust Norway for the future, we have to have more legs to stand on, like we were going into a war without a plane and without weapons. In the SV's draft budget, we have an offensive conversion of the Norwegian economy. We want to smooth the difference between offshore and onshore by increasing the oil tax. We want to normalize the good depreciation arrangements that offshore has today. We're lowering, as the sole party on Stortinget, the corporate tax. We are proposing greater industrial rights within renewable technologies, marine industries, forestry, regional development and environmental technologies. A special effort has been made on green pilot projects through the establishment of Pilot Invest to scale up exciting technologies. And we have a special investment in North Norway, which is a particularly exciting region, but which is particularly low in capital. We are afraid that developments in North Norway will not be on the premise of the Nordics themselves, but on the premise of other actors. The government is very eager to neutralize Norway. At a time when the oil price is falling and the Norwegian krona is weakening, there is suddenly an opening for other industries and bets – especially in travel, where we know there are great challenges to raising capital, we have an enormous potential now. It means it's cheaper for foreigners to come to Norway and experience Norway. But at such a time, the government is pulling out the bet. At a time when either the marine industries are on the threshold of becoming a Norwegian industrial venture or Norway is digging itself as a pure commodity supplier, the government is withdrawing the investment in Marine value creation programs. The list could continue. I have to admit that I don't understand what the government's industrial policy is. I can only see a policy of ownership and a policy of petroleum. I can't see the contours of how this will end, and what kind of business policy this will be for the whole country. I hope that through the Great Britain's debates we can get the government on a more interesting track for Norway. I just want to say that what has been Norway's success in the field of nutrition has been insisting on being in front of the environment. That was what scared Norwegian industry in the 1980s. That's what's going to save Norwegian farming, and I think that's what's also going to happen for Norwegian business. I refer to SV's proposal No. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e783	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e788	As we have experienced in the past in line changes, volunteering is an important part of the whole of Norway, also in the field of nutrition, but now there is a significant down-priority from government to government, despite the fact that there are different formulations in its platforms and programmes. There is a proposal on the table in Stortinget today to continue cooperation agreements with the organisations under the Ministry of Agriculture. It is supported by the Christian People's Party, the Workers' Party and the Center Party. Paradoxically, the Left is on the verge of that proposal, whether SV supports it and will have an opportunity to reduce the cooperation agreements – the Left, which has certainly gone at the top of the path to defend volunteering and these cooperation agreements. So my question is, will SV support this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e797	We've registered the proposal, and we think it's very interesting. We will come back to how we will vote, but it is obvious that this is a proposal that is in line with our policy. I think volunteering in general is a very undervalued value creation factor in Norway, maybe especially for right-wing government. It's very difficult to document the GDP effect of volunteering. We know the meaning of it, but we can't document the direct effects in the same way as paid work. I think that volunteering is a very central part of agriculture, but also other industries, which it is important to continue through central agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e802	It was an interesting post from the representative of Fylkesnes. SV saw lights and solutions for the nation in the 1980s, since only the wrong path has passed. I've never heard such crystal clear death sentence over my own party's efforts over eight years in government. That was very interesting. In any case, it is to the comfort of both Parliament and the nation that SV has brought in some politicians who are now seeing solutions. The representative of the County is very happy to develop his own part of the country and business in his own part of the country. So am I. Business is made up of very many small and medium-sized private-sized enterprises. It is not private ownership, nor is it the strength through family-run businesses I recognize as a red thread in SV's business policy, neither when I read the program, nor when I hear the representative. So my question is, can the representative show me where in SV's program the family-owned business is lifted?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e809	Here's a lot of statements, I'll see if I can take some of them down. Firstly, if a googler is in government for eight years, a majority of it is in the right-representative – after they have been in government. After eight years in government, we got a lot of seed funds set up, we got established regional development, we put on a marine valuation, we got a boost in travel life, pointing towards a different kind of industrial structure in Norway than the petro-based. I'm referring in particular to these because it's exactly in the one that has cut off from the government's side. One has simply gone to work to cut some of the most interesting candidates for future industries. So to the last question, we have an extensive program there, among other things. This is mentioned, as I invite the representative to read before he asks.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e818	The Socialist Left Party says that wood processing is an important industry for Norway and that they want to invest in it. In this context, road and road use are important. SV will provide adaptations for vehicle trains up to 60 tonnes, inter alia. for the transport of timber, for which they must actually be commended. These combinations of vehicles must have a way of running. I therefore assume that SV will also invest heavily in road development in the future. However, SV will also significantly increase the fuel charge, and this weakens the competitiveness of forest industry. How can a weakening of competitiveness be a commitment to the industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e826	Perhaps the most important weakening of the ability of agriculture to look ahead are the large cuts that the government has implemented in this budget, which is a targeted weakening of, among other things. research and development in this field. I believe that the future for forestry and the amazing natural resource it represents in large parts of the country, the entire bioeconomy, is about investing in technology and technology development. We know that if you just look a little bit outside of Norway's borders, for example. Britain, Germany and the United States, so large, national programmes have been launched to reindustrialise the industries that a threatened globalisation had stolen. Instead of a shifting out natural resources like the forest, it can be further processed in the country, but then one must be willing to invest in technology and pilot investment. Among other things, one of the proposals we have put forward in this budget, on pilot investment, will focus on forestry in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e831	An important part of what we're going to live on in the future, I think we'll find in the woods. It is important for value creation in Norway. It is an important part of environmental policy. It presupposes a willingness to take action to exploit forest resources, including: construction of forest roads. Can the representative say a little about SV's attitude to it, which I believe is a necessary condition for using the forest? It's on forest planting. Does SV also want forest planting, or does SV agree with the government that we are going to plant some forest, and that one then after three years will evaluate whether the forest binds CO2 or not? Or is the Swedish forest policy essentially a protection policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e841	I think it's very important that we have a good balance between protection and use. In the Centre Party and SV, there are different opinions about what to focus on. For SV's part, the forest is a natural resource to house, to be exploited, and where we see great, exciting potential. Anything that you can use oil for, one can actually use the forest for. I think this is an untapped area for Norway in general, and I'd like to join the Central Party in proposing national strategies for the entire bioeconomy. When it comes to forest roads, as far as I know, there are as many forest roads in Norway as there are common roads. It's a comprehensive network. Having a good way into the woods to pick up wood is a commitment to be able to house this. In that area, SV does not have a yes-response or a no-response. We're pragmatically oriented. We see case by case. It's not that we just put ourselves on the line of protection or just on the toolbar.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e848	The representative of the County held a very good, or at least interesting, post, where he takes a brutal settlement with SV's efforts in government. I think that's interesting. The petroleum industry is the industry he wants to settle with, and that's a little bit interesting since we both come from North Norway and refer to the activity that's been on Snow White. So it's given revenue of about 100 billion. kr, Hammerfest Municipality has received tax income of SEK 1,3 billion. kr, the Norwegian supplier industry has had deliveries between 3 billion. kr and 4 brd. kr, and most people who speak at the Snow White plant have a Northern Norwegian dialect. It's meant a lot to North Norway, but it doesn't want the County. What's interesting is that SV votes against most of the petroleum projects when they're not in government, but they use the petroleum revenues as much as other batches. Can the representative Fylkesnes explain to me the logic that you are against an industry for which you use the revenues?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e857	It's not true that we spend as much oil money as the government or most other parties in this room do. We're using 4 billion. kr less, and that is simply because we want to strike the path towards a less petroleum-based economy. When the brutal settlement that Korsberg thought was good, I have to say that SV's primary policy is that we want a much larger shift in the Norwegian economy. For many, many years, we have been eager to do that. Just that part of the eight years we're not very happy with. What we're happy about is the nutritional interests of industries that point in a different direction than the petroleum-related industries, i.e., marines, travel, etc., the areas that I've already mentioned. When it comes to Hammerfest – a quick siding to it – the problem is what we are seeing now, for example. the disappearance of many jobs, the disappearance of most, very many, of these jobs along the coast and especially in Northern Norway. These are the new projects that have disappeared. Rising for the future by investing in the oil industry in the north is a trail of blindness.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e864	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e867	According to the government, Norway is expected to be climate-neutral in more than 30 years and to have halted the loss of biodiversity for the longest time. It means a different country, and it means a radically different business than what we have today. So what are we going to live on? Three things point out at least: knowledge, renewable energy and living resources. The last one is what's called nature. Again in history Norway is a lucky country. We have all these resources to an extent that many will envy us. We have Europe's largest sea areas with large species-rich ecosystems in good condition, we have good agriculture, we have productive forests, and we have renewable energy resources at sea and on land on an enormous scale. The diversity of species, biomass, biochemistry, energy and information solutions found in the species of Norwegian nature, especially in the sea, provide enormous opportunities for a future business. But it assumes that we are getting knowledge of these possibilities. What today are exotic creeps and strange crops that only attract attention when they delay motorways must be the basis for advanced industry and thousands of jobs. But this requires two things: firstly, sustainability, species conservation, animal welfare and ecosystem tolerance become absolute prerequisites for further nutrient development, and the majority of population understand that the Norwegian resource now needs to be given the same priority and investment in knowledge and monitoring as we have used on hydrocarbons to date. The greatest threat to future Velferds-Norway is not a fall in oil price and resistance to drilling in Lofoten. The great threat is the fear of change. In today's debate, everyone has talked very much about the new bio-industries, but read the budgets. The sovereign largest input area of the government and the majority of the population is still oil and gas. The development of renewable and bio-based industries continues to grow in comparison. That is why, in our alternative budget, we in the Green Party are proposing large transfers of input from the petroleum sector to the development of tomorrow's jobs and tax revenues. The assumption is knowledge, good framework conditions and risk capital, and we propose, among other things. large-scale surveying and bio-prospecting of Norwegian nature at sea and on land, strengthening of entrepreneurs and green enterprises with risk capital – as we have called catapult funds – for 1.2 billion. kr, strengthening State power as a renewable locomotive by keeping the company 50 pst. of the surplus in 2015, targeted tax relief for self-employed persons for SEK 1.4 billion. kr, strengthening of Enova and, inter alia, targeted investment in large-scale marine wind farm and marine industry development and bioeconomy, strengthening the eco-innovation scheme in Innovation Norway by 400 million. kr and strengthening local and regional economic development by 900 million. kr. Today’s agriculture, forestry and seafood are the basis for too much of future bio-industries. They produce, among other things: the most important of all commodities: food. However, the industrial policy relationship with food in Norway is now unilaterally dominated by volume and low price, while there are large food concentrations in the shopcloth. It will be difficult for agriculture and maritime food industries to benefit from good animal welfare, good raw materials, environment, climate and resource-friendly production. The Green Party therefore strongly supports animal welfare, health and environmental standards. We will provide better opportunities for agricultural incomes while reducing the use of power feed and increasing local resource use. We propose significant changes in fees to shift food production and diet in a healthier direction. Green, healthy and organic food is becoming cheaper, power-feed-based and imported meat is becoming more expensive. There is no need for Norway to operate and subsidise the production of fur animals, and I hope that support from the Stortinget to the Environmental Party of the Greens will be given to the proposal to wind up Norwegian fur industry. The farming industry has great potential, but also major challenges, and if the long-term potential of the industry is to become a reality, it needs to be helped by the Stortinge to bring about a paradigm shift in the environmental standard. I therefore hope to support the Greens' proposals for a halt to growth in industry while addressing environmental problems. There are many sprouts of green nutrition, both in the government budget and in the alternative budgets presented this year. For example, the multiplicity comment on bio-economic input is: a good proposal, and we look forward to working with other parties to continue this effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e886	It's going to be a line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e889	When the Labour Party put in government, there was an annual increase in aquaculture production by granting a new concession for growth in the aquaculture sector. But for each allocation round, different criteria were used for how to obtain these concessions. The one time could be that there should be a certain amount of women in the board, another time it could be called green concessions – which actually just ended up with a lot of lawsuits with the state, a lot of squabbling, all got concessions anyway, and the environment was suffering. Do you support the government's objective of having a new concession award regime and that the growth of aquaculture should be based on sustainable environmental indicators?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e896	I actually want to praise the government for a more holistic thinking about environmental development in the farming industry than the red-green performance. It is a clear, at least very close, relationship between the Greens' proposals on the cessation of growth in the industry of environmental problems and the proposal put forward by the government itself. We support any initiative that makes sustainability a premise for further development in the breeding industry. We believe that it should be enforced more firmly than the government proposes, because unfortunately the industry has demonstrated an eye-catching will for extraction and summer meal. But we see that development is on its way in the right direction, and we believe that those who want to make the most of the enforcement of these principles are the industry itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e901	We have now received for the very first time a Council of State which has given a directive to the Food Authority that one should use the current legislation and, where appropriate, stop production in installations that do not deliver in accordance with the requirements set. I understand that you support the government for enforcing this current legislation in a better way than one has ever seen before.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e907	The President recalls that all speeches should be addressed to the President in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e910	I support the measures referred to by the representative Trellevik, but I stress that we have some fundamental problems, where the first is that the sanctions against the farming industry are so weak that the farming industry obviously deserves to continue to have high incomes, high levels of loopholes and high levels of escape. There's got to be more penalties. When it comes to implementing measures, we have an aquaculture law that is much weaker than the law that should regulate the farming industry, namely the pollution law. I call on the strongest government to address the fundamental problems, for they must be addressed if the industry is to get the help it needs to be sustainable.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e917	I think that the representative Rasmus Hansson had good overburden and many exciting thoughts in his post, and that's also what's exciting about getting the Green Party into the Stortinget – that you can get challenged if you want to. Both the Christian People's Party and the Green Party believe that more legs must be on, but the Green Party is probably a little more impatient than the rest of the Green Party. That's good, but the question is, do you go a little too fast? I think the market itself will make us less oil dependent. Similarly, I believe that the climate pressure of the oil will make the oil itself phase out. My question to the representative Hansson is: When you are going to go from black to green carbon, will you – as the representative sees it – get an increase in unemployment in such a transitional phase?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e926	Thank you for a pleasant invitation to dialogue from the Christian People's Party. I must say that one of the things that fascinates me most about the Storting, having observed the earth's climate development, the development of species, the development of earth's resources, is the continuing naive, confident belief that market and technological development of itself will fix environmental problems without strong political intervention. We do not share that belief in the Greens/Greens/EFA. We are optimistic enough — and must be optimistic enough — to believe that Norway, for example. Like our neighbouring country Sweden, which does not have a drop of oil, will also be able to maintain a good democratic welfare society in the future, even if we, like many of our neighbouring countries, have to base our well-being on something other than oil.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e933	I would like to hear about the representative's arrangements at the offensive foundation. It was mentioned what I think the representative called the incubator catapult, and I think it would have been nice to get an explanation of what kind of device it is. Does it apply in general, or does it apply only to any industries? Are you really offensive about bioeconomy, primary industries and bets within them, or are there other industries that you are currently largely involved in?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e938	We have stolen the term «catapult fund» from Sweden because we think it suggests a slightly larger and more speedy ambition than the Norwegian term «incubator fund». What the representative may ask is the issue of business neutrality versus specific devices against bio-based and renewable industries. The Green Party is among those who are strongly critical of business neutrality, which means that many new investments remain in traditional industries and technologies rather than go to the technologies we know we should invest in. Therefore, our instruments are specifically designed to develop new green industries and specifically designed to develop new, renewable technologies, such as: large-scale sea wind.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e943	Like the Green Party, the Left is concerned with the environmental challenge related to the aquaculture industry – if not at the same level all the time, we are very concerned about it from the Left. A question to the representative Hansson is: What does the representative Hansson think are the main environmental challenges for industry – would you like to make a concrete statement at the head level?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e948	I can say that at the top heading level is the biggest environmental challenge for Norwegian farming industry that there is an industry that does not meet the same environmental requirements as other Norwegian industries. It has been treated much better than the Norwegian industry, and it is treated much more favourably than the Norwegian wild fish industry. It is the biggest problem because the farming industry has both the skills and the economic muscles to solve their problems if they are informed by the market and by the government. Of course, the big problems are the two threats to the wild axis, which are the breeding industry's own foundation and cradle, i.e. escape and lice. Then the farming industry has an underlying feed problem because it is such a difficult and cost-effective user of feed raw materials from the international market that it will always face an opportunity to conflict with others and more – let's say – high-value consumption needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e955	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e958	Norway has a wide range of businesses, which claim to be very competitive at international level. At the same time, the development of the Norwegian economy is strongly linked to the development of the petroleum industry. Oil and gas activity has contributed to our high standard of living and given us financial security. Today, half of all exports are oil and gas. After many years of significant growth, we now experience that the growth of the petroleum industry is slowing down. Petroleum industry will be important for Norway for a long time to come, but we still need to provide better facilities for other parts of our business. Norway needs more legs to stand on financially. We need to convert to a more knowledge-based and climate-friendly economy. Since the government took over, we have prioritised growth-enhancing tax incentives, increased infrastructure allocations and made important business simplifications. We are putting considerable emphasis on nutrition research, on the continuing training of teachers and on strengthening basic education at school. These are measures that strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian jobs. The work on strengthening our competitiveness therefore also characterises next year's government budget. The State budget proposes a significant increase of over 2 billion. kr in the research effort. There is also a strong commitment to schemes that promote innovation and innovation in business. The Government follows up the Health Declaration by focusing on the broad and open programmes. The user-driven innovation are strengthened by a new 70 million. kr, so that the total publication pot is more than half a billion kroner. The establishment grant scheme has been increased by 110 million. kr. In the government's draft budget, the Eco-Technology Scheme was reinforced by 50 million. kr, and we increased the allocation to, among others. POLLUTION 2020. In the budgetary agreement between the Christian People's Party, the Left and the government parties, the focus on innovation has been further strengthened. The Eco-Technology Scheme has increased by a further 100 million. kr, for a total appropriation of 330 million. SEK and FORNY2020 increased by 25 million. kr. In addition, funds have been allocated to two new seed funds. The budget agreement agreed to allocate 167 million. kr to Copernicus. This appropriation covers our commitment to the EU of 137 million. kr and funds to Norwegian Rome Centre, national infrastructure and technical activities totalling 30 million. kr. The allocation to the Competition Authority will be increased in 2015. It is essential that the Competition Authority has the resources to follow up the tasks assigned to it. Over several years, however, the budget of the establishment has remained nominally unchanged. It has been relatively significant in terms of reducing the activities of the Competition Authority. We therefore propose to strengthen the Competition Authority by 6.2 million. kr. The government has also undertaken extensive simplification work, and simplifications have been carried out in a number of areas. At the same time, new laws and regulations affecting business will always be adopted. In order to ensure that we know the consequences of new rules, and to prevent them from imposing new and unnecessary burdens on businesses, the government proposes to grant 7 million. kr in order to establish an independent regulatory board. The Government also proposes to increase the allocation of the net pay scheme by 22 million. kr. It implies that the maximum price of the scheme is adjusted for the first time since its introduction. The total appropriations for the net pay scheme in 2015 will then amount to SEK 1.8 billion. kr. In addition, the Maritime Directorate is strengthened by 5 million. kr. It will provide a continuous 24-hour service to an industry that operates globally, 24 hours a day, throughout the year. There is reason to give honor to the Christian People's Party and the Left and Government Parties on the Stortinget. The budget agreement sets out a clear direction for industrial policy. The agreement helps to strengthen existing business with schemes that contribute to more entrepreneurial research and allow more enterprises to use more climate-friendly and environmentally friendly solutions. The clear priorities of the State budget for innovation, for schemes for entrepreneurs and new seed funds also help to lay the foundations for the new economy. It strengthens Norwegian competitiveness and contributes to a completely necessary conversion of Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e986	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e990	In its statement, the Council of State states that industrial policy is moving in a clear direction, and yes, the government is placing more emphasis on nationwide schemes and less on industry-specific instruments, and government is cutting off the geographic instruments. The majority of the government believes that this leaves an active industrial policy in favour of a more business-neutral policy. How will the Council of State deal with this majority and share the views of the majority of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e995	Today, I have listened carefully to the debate that has been taking place, and it seems that an active industrial policy is an industrial policy that facilitates narrow programmes, geographically defined programmes, and if, in addition, they are politicians' inventions, it seems to be the very best thing for business. I don't think it's like that! I believe in broad, open programs that invite the whole country, all industries, the best ideas to come with their projects. So I think the projects shouldn't be assessed by us politicians, but by those who actually know this. Then our task is to create good framework conditions, and we do so in this budget by focusing on the important, heavy, nationwide arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1002	I note that the government has abandoned the active industrial policy, because it has determined the bulk of the population through a common remark. The government has cut for the last two years approx. 40 pst. in regional development funds, which is the principal industrial instrument of the county. Does the Council not see that cuts in regional development funds will affect regional and local value creation and jobs around the country? And is the Council aware that, along with cuts and proposals for new ownership structure in Innovation Norway, this will reduce and be devastating to the county as a regional economic operator?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1009	I disagree with the description. The government has one of the degrees of active approach to business policy, but we can call it a ‘nutrition-optimistic policy’ — whose business activity is spending the most money on the narrowest, most demarcated programmes. I am concerned about diversity in Norway; I am concerned that the resources we use are used as accurately as possible. Then we need knowledge, and we're acquiring that knowledge now. For one important debate is how much money we spend; another debate is how we spend the money, what results we get. I am concerned about that, and it is an active approach to resource use and to the framework conditions for business throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1014	I would also like to thank the Council of State for the good words of the Left and Christian People's Party and also for a good contribution. In the budget, under the heading ‘State ownership’, social responsibility is not mentioned in a single word, but in the ownership message, governance principles are tightened in this area. In the wake of recent weeks' cases, state ownership and social responsibility have become highly topical. My question to the Council of State is just how she wants to ensure that state-owned companies act in accordance with good social responsibility and do not take advantage of child labour, corruption or slavery.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1023	This is an important question, and it has been important for us in the ownership announcement, which is to be dealt with by Stortinget after New Year, to describe the rules and expectations we have for state owned companies. We've been very clear on this from the first day. It is, as the representative describes, further tightened the ownership message. In addition, we regularly have conversations with the companies where this is a separate topic. There is a difference between a theoretical approach to these issues and having an active attitude to them. We make sure that the companies are very aware that we have expectations about this, and we're also trying to review how the companies and the boards work on these things. This is a demanding theme. We're very aware of that, and we're working on it -- especially in the light of the fact that we've experienced three companies in the last year where the state is a joint owner, where this has become a topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1032	I react very strongly to the way in which the Council of State describes different instruments – such as narrow ones, as politicians have invented – because it does not reflect the reality that the Committee has heard from industry itself in the hearing, it does not reflect what we hear when we are on committee. It is important to stress that the Council of State is a representative of a minority government. In Innovation Norway, major processes of conversion are in progress. The size is not involved. Today, the majority will decide to grant 43.5 million. kr to Innovation Norway for getting rid of 40–55 years. The previous government, which was a majority government, presented a case, a big deal, about Innovation Norway. This government, which is a minority government, leaves behind doing so and makes major changes in Innovation Norway. Shouldn't the Storting have been involved in the process of Innovation Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1041	I haven't been on either committee hearing or on committee tour, but I meet business every week and talk very carefully to them about what framework conditions they're concerned about. That's what I was referring to. In the case of Innovation Norway, the Stortinget is invited to participate to the highest degree. This is done in the context of the budget submitted, where we are making significant increases in the Norwegian innovation tool, but where we are inviting an improvement in the efficiency of administrative resources in Innovation Norway. They've doubled in nine years. The size will be invited next year to adopt legislative changes related to Innovation Norway, based on the consultation input we are now receiving.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1050	The left is committed to maximising innovation out of the public funds to go for such a purpose. Previous studies have shown that only half of the projects supported by Innovation Norway are recorded as active. In the government’s draft budget, it appears that overall the government believes that Innovation Norway met its targets in 2013 for more entrepreneurs, more high-growth enterprises and more innovative business environments. This may indicate that we have taken a step in the right direction, but the Left believes that we need more knowledge about the impact of selected instruments on innovation and value creation. At the same time, we are concerned that government's commitment to more general instruments within the instrument will be at the expense of industry-specific instruments such as: marine sector, maritime sector and travel. What will the Minister of Industry do to prevent these industries from receiving less subsidies and becoming down-prioritized?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1059	There were two questions in particular. In terms of knowledge about the use of tools, a very thorough research-based work is now being done on the tools we have, just to give us the basis for knowing where to go. This is done with the tools available to Innovation Norway. As far as business and thematic cuts are concerned, it's quite true, it's done thematically. In return, there's a big boost in the big programs. The entire business is invited to participate. I think it's important that we invite the entire business community, the whole country, to report on their projects. Then a professional assessment – what has the greatest innovation power, and what lies ahead – is made to create the new business.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1068	One of the measures that the government has taken this year, which has been most repressed, and which has our main commitment to them, is cut in taxes on wealth for the richest in Norway. It has been very difficult to argue that this will act as a growth promoter, as the minister here still claims. She cannot find evidence of that foundation. So the government has changed the argument where it's important to keep Norwegian ownership, and it's interesting when a sales company sells a lot of Norwegian companies abroad. But my question, to which I would like a concrete answer from the Minister, is: What kind of growth-promoting activities will we see in North Norway as a result of a cut in the wealth tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1076	First of all, it was the red-green government that, as some of the last thing they did, sold EMUS to two foreign funds. In the case of foreign ownership, it is not very strange that foreigners buy companies in Norway, all the time they don't have to pay taxes on wealth – while Norwegian business has to. In North Norway, we have some of the most growth-intensive industries, that's what Norway is going to live on in the future. I was in Tromsø last week and met representatives of the study environment there. They asked us politicians for two things. One was to speak up North Norway, so that more people would stay, study and work there. The second thing was to increase knowledge about North Norway. Just as companies in Arendal benefit from asset taxes cuts, so companies in Northern Norway do. That is the whole basis for thinking that the money taken out of the company, regardless of the result, to pay taxes, weakens the company. This tells business all over the country every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1083	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1086	After hearing the Minister of Industry in the change of line, I have to remind you that a minority government is represented. The budget that we are about to adopt today seems to me to fit well with the description that a majority underlines. A majority of the Industry Committee gave its description on page 36 of the referral, pointing out that by cutting geographical and industry-specific instruments, the government is abandoning an active industrial policy in favour of a more business-neutral industrial policy. There is a majority in the Business Committee, and probably a majority in this Chamber, giving as a characteristic of the government's industrial policy. I'd probably take that a little bit more seriously than the state council said in the line change recently. It was described as being largely about support schemes that were political – as if it were so wrong – and that the schemes were narrow. The main intervention of the government in terms of the total budget this year is to choose the perhaps the most political and narrowest solution, namely to significantly reduce the wealth tax, which makes us less able to spend money on good schemes in order to get business going. If there's something that's narrow, it has to be how the property tax rate goes, when we look at the amount of taxes they get few percent of those who make money in this country. It's a really narrow arrangement. And when we hear economic experts from universities and research environments describe the effect of facilitating wealth taxes, as you do now – I have to say that it also has to be highly politicians. That's why I'd probably take a little more seriously into account the description that a majority of the Business Committee actually gives, that there's an active industrial policy here. For the Workers' Party, an active industrial policy has been characterised by two main factors: the choice to use instruments in specific industries, the fact that they are not non-nutritional. The proposal that a majority in the European Parliament strongly supports – at least in a comment on a bioeconomic strategy – is such an example. We believe it is more important than ever that we be able to get new legs standing on as the growth of the petroleum industry slows down. Getting more value creation out of e.g. the forestry industry is precisely such a specific measure. It is not a political invention, nor is it narrow. In this way, this is a very good example of an important point in industrial policy where the government is actually not with the bulk of the population. It's going to be exciting to see if you're actually taking note that this is a kind of business policy that we actually want. The measures in the field of soil and forest research and development are another example. They're not narrow, they may be politicians' inventions, but they work very well, and we need more of them. We don't have to cut, as the government suggests. The measures in the field of forestry infrastructure are similar. A majority of people in the hall here, in fact, believe that greater funding should be given to both forest roads, ports and whatever it may be, in order to upgrade the infrastructure. It's also the way we think it's important that everyone comes along and pulls the load, that we get the volunteers and extend, among other things. cooperation agreements, which I hope the Left will help create a majority for today. The first part of this is the pure nutritional neutrality we see, the second part is that you're geographically neutral. We also see this through the big grip on wealth taxes, how they turn out, and the fact that, to the extent that they are useful, they benefit from the relief of wealth taxes, while typical districts, for example. Hedmark and Uppland take very little advantage of such a measure. The cuts in regional development funds are different. It's not narrow at all, and whether it's a politician's invention, there's no reason not to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1101	A more worrying global picture, both geopolitical and financial, has in several ways clarified the need for conversion and increased competitiveness of Norwegian business. This is evident in the debates on market access – both in the context of unrest in Europe, in the US negotiations on trade agreements with the EU and Asian countries, and in studies where we measure against competing countries under framework conditions. Competitiveness is a key element in all these debates. It also looks at the cost picture of the oil industry in the daytime due to low oil prices; it looks at the development of the supplier industry towards more standardisation in order to lower project costs, or at other export-exposed industries that come into the back because a high level of cost or rigid regulation makes us too vulnerable in a globalised trade and economy. These descriptions give us the right idea when, from the last election campaign and beyond, we have focused on competitiveness, framework conditions and innovation as priority areas for lifting Norwegian business. That is why this budget is a good budget for taking on Norwegian business – competitive and innovative, ready to take Norway into the future. Today, the government solves important tasks and equips Norway for the future. Several of the debaters today have referred to oil dependence. It's real and a measurable factor, but maybe not just negative. At the same time as we are discussing an oil-dependent Norway, we must also hold the cluster tank. We will think of the availability of the expertise and resources we now receive from the oil and energy sectors as being available for a boost and a shift in other sectors such as energy. seafood, biotechnology, which has been mentioned, and minerals know we're coming. Here it opens for possibilities. We have also discussed active and inactive – or passive – industrial policy. There are differences between the red-green policies and those of the government, the policies negotiated in the United Kingdom now. When the Workers' Party promotes different programs and packages with narrow loops as an entry point, we believe that Norwegian business itself sees the solutions. In our budgets, there is a significant investment in the TaxFUNN, and there is a significant investment in the User-Controlled Innovation Arena, the BIA. These are schemes in which business itself sits at the rudder. It gives innovation, and it gives momentum to change. One of the most important promises to achieve our goal of a competitive business is to succeed in commercialising research. Then more of the research needs to be done in the business world. We're solving this using schemes like the Tax Fund and the BIA. At that time, research takes place to a much greater extent on the business premises and in constructive cooperation with research institutions. This gives the research promise we need in business, and a more researched business is today's solution to take Norway into the future. So some words about aquaculture. In the development of sustainability indicators for aquaculture, there are some important industrial policy objectives in mind. The government will facilitate sustainable, predictable and long-term growth where strict demands make it the best that gets growing, that it is the best that goes on. Only those who qualify for future aquaculture – large and small – are rewarded with growth and development. It is the right way to take the industry into the future, as opposed to the so-called so-called active enterprise policy of red-green, where the legal entity is still engaged in both the last concession award and the award before. We have had many discussions both at the overall level and at the level of detail in the field of business. In its alternative budget, the Labour Party proposes a separate whitefish package of 10 million. kr. Here I have to remind you that in the last election campaign you brought the same package, but then it was tens of millions. There was no need for a white fish package in the eight years the red-greens put in government, but in the campaign last autumn there suddenly became an acute need for several tens of millions to do so. So this year, that need is measured at 10 million. kr. The truth is that the government itself has fulfilled the vast majority of the good wishes that were in the wishful position in the election campaign last. With regard to the much-mentioned self-subsidy that would lift the line catch quality fish on land and was the only opportunity to do so, the industry has solved this itself by saying that the boats that deliver cod of good quality are covered by the lineage of the industry. Now, market mechanisms are being used to get the quality of the raw material you get on land, without any political packages having pushed it, and it works. Facilitating business, competitiveness and value creation are active industrial policies, and that is what has been included in the budget we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1122	We are now examining and adopting the best state budget of the country's founders. The government produced a very good budget for Norwegian business and especially for entrepreneurs in the autumn. And with regard to the framework conditions for entrepreneurs, the budget has in many ways become even better after the budgetary agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party, but with at least one exception – the wealth tax. It was not reduced as much as the government suggested. This is a tax that is harmful to innovative entrepreneurs with a good idea. This is a tax that this government has in the long run as an ambition to remove, at least to reduce sharply. I understand that this large number can be difficult – at least after listening to the representative Knut Storberget. And that's a little bit of a shame, because property taxes for entrepreneurs in very many cases are strenuous. Founding Mathias Mikkelsen, 24 years old, who runs two successful companies in Silicon Valley in the United States, recently stated in the chronicle ‘Therefore, Facebook could never have been started in Norway’, that he is afraid to end up with a tax bill he does not have the chance to pay if he collects capital to the company. As soon as investors set a price on how good the company is, they are severely punished by the public with the strange wealth tax. To put it another way: there is a Norwegian criminal tax on ingenious founders. As Mathias Mikkelsen says, if he collects investor money, the company will get a so-called paper value. The paper value doesn't exist, it's not real money. There is something he and the investors have agreed that the company is worth it. Unfortunately, Mathias Mikkelsen is not alone. I no longer have numbers on how many entrepreneurs I've met or heard about, that come in this sad situation. I've heard a lot of tragic stories about companies that have existed for years and that have always gone down with losses and huge losses. But the investors have valued the company and the idea very highly, which means that the owners, including the founder, either have to borrow to pay the property tax or have to sell off to their own company to pay the so-called property tax. That the bulk of the population does not want to reduce this entrepreneurial wealth tax as much as the government wants, disappoints me. It is not only hostile to entrepreneurs, but it is pure discrimination against Norwegian owners. Norwegian owners have to pay property taxes on the shares of the enterprise, while other shareholders, foreign investors of the same enterprise, are dropping out. In this context, it might have been interesting to discuss how to facilitate the availability of risk capital for entrepreneurs in Norway. It is a recurring theme for many entrepreneurs, and there are even many politicians, from all parties, who often address this theme. But most often, the solution for some politicians is that the state – the public – should always raise money, since there are so few Norwegian investors. Very few stop and think: Why are there so few private investors in Norway? Why have Norwegian millionaires, billionaires and investors been flagged out of Norway? Maybe it could have a connection with the Norwegian wealth tax? Tax policy is also something we in the Business Committee should focus on and discuss, even if it is formally within the Financial Committee. I do not disagree with the fact that the Norwegian state – a state that has otherwise taken in too much money in taxes and taxes from its citizens and Norwegian businesses – should facilitate investment capital for entrepreneurs with good ideas. The Progress Party and I are also concerned that we should have a good tool and establish even more seed funds. But I miss doing enough to lure risk capital into Norway, i.e. foreign private investors. I may not be the only one who's been out traveling, and when I land at airports and look around, I see very often big advertising boards, where you promote how great it is to invest in that country, or you can sit in a café and get a free magazine that comes with the same message. But what about Norway? A few years ago, I was at Innovation Norway's office in New York, the world's capital. All the information they had there was about promoting Norwegian culture and travel. But there was nothing about how great it is to invest in Norway. For approx. One year ago, there was a website, invinor.no. There is a department which is a cooperation project between Innovation Norway, SIVA and the Research Council. There is one man sitting and doing the job, while our neighboring country has over 40 employees working to promote the country as a good country to invest in. I hope you will also focus on this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1153	I record that the government parties are terribly concerned with the red-green government period – to such an extent that I actually wonder whether the Right Party and the Advance Party have realized that sitting in government means that now it is those who are responsible for taking the right steps for the future. As we now enter a more uncertain period for the Norwegian economy, I hope that the government parties in their focus on the past are also inspired by how the then government managed the financial crisis. When the Right Party and the Advance Party give priority to spending so much of their speaking time and energy on what has happened, there is also reason to recall that despite the great global economic downturn that occurred in 2008, Norway has been growing high in recent years, creating hundreds of thousands of jobs — most in the private sector. Let's go back to the future: falling oil prices and redundancies in the supplier industry indicate that the Norwegian economy may be on its way into more troubled waters. The fact that Norway’s Bank has today reduced the interest rate on governance is also an expression of this. Times are more uncertain than before, but we also have a good starting point, with a resilient business and a well-functioning public sector. And as the Minister of Finance said to E24 yesterday: ‘The oil fund makes it possible to add more funds to the budget even at a time when it would become a little tighter’. I believe that the Minister of Finance is also pleased that the rule of action and a responsible use of oil under her predecessors, Halvorsen and Johnsen, have helped to bring her to a clean home and have opportunities to pursue counter-cyclical policies when needed. I will neither scream wolves nor take on the role of fortune-tellers as to how this will develop further, but the situation at least implies that we must use the liberal space of action we now have to equip ourselves for the future. In particular, it involves pursuing an active industrial policy and a policy for growth throughout the country. Then we need to focus on the industries where we have natural advantages, such as travel, marine and maritime sectors and environmental technologies. To the right of the previous speaker, I would like to remind you that the red-green government strengthened the marine value creation programme. The Right Party and the Advance Party have zeroed it out into the budget for the next year. I expect that the fishing industry, for example. in Båtsfjord, which would have benefited very well from the lineage premium and the supply of fresh fish that it led, it has noticed that it was the previous Minister for Fisheries from the Right who removed the lineage premium and that it is the current Commissioner for Fisheries from the Right and Finnmark who has taken the lead in preventing it from being reintroduced. It is very important that we do not now liquidate well-functioning and important schemes for these industries we can succeed in, but that we strengthen and further develop our instruments. We have to have a proper law of permitting in order to ensure that businesses have the power to maintain valuable competences when the order books are down. It's forward-looking, and it's a better investment in the business and business of the future than handing out mild gifts in the form of tax cuts. Norway is a diverse country. It also means that there are differences between parts of the country in what we live in, in what areas we have strong businesses and knowledge environments and in what areas we struggle. Then it goes without saying that we cannot use the same instruments in Oslo as in Finnmark. The way in which regional development is carried out will necessarily have to vary from state to state. In this respect, it is particularly important that politicians, businesses and the knowledge environment around the country continue to have the opportunity to make an effort, and regional development funds play an important role here. These are means that help create jobs and trigger value creation, among other things. for the enhancement of competences, innovation, industrial funds and the strengthening of community guidance for entrepreneurs. Some examples of projects supported are: the Finnmark race, the world’s first oil and chemical beer collector, the West Bank Founder’s Hospital, SINTEF Raufoss, NCE Smart Energy in Eastfold, real-time science betting, the Arctic Race of Norway, as well as many single businesses through Innovation Norway. The central statistical agency has demonstrated that these funds contribute to growth. Here the government also chooses to cut. There is uncertainty about the Norwegian economy, and then this is definitely a bad time to deal with the Norwegian model of working life, abandoning the active business policy and cutting the tax at the expense of the richest, at the expense of the schemes we have to ensure growth across the country. The working party will move in a different direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1184	There is broad political agreement on the overall objectives of agricultural and food policy. The government is actively working for increased food production, safe food, and that we are to have value creation across the country. Our goal is to facilitate more professional full-time farmers for large and small uses. It's not the size that matters. Aaland farm in Lofoten is an example of that. The starting point for the operation is a rather small farm engaged in goat’s milk production. At this farm they have developed an irony that produces high quality cheese, it is the production of herbs, farm shops and serving to tourists. There are many similar success stories across the country. This government wants to facilitate more. That's why we increased the budget for the development programme for local food, green travel and other industries starting from the farm by 24 million. kr. We're going to give more opportunities to live on our own farm, and together it's almost 100 million. kr available through Innovation Norway to creative Norwegian farmers who will create their own jobs on the farm. Important key to the change in course that is strung out is more freedom and armstroke to the farmer and fewer regulation. The single-use milk quota ceiling has doubled, as has the livestock premium rate, and there have never been more simplifications and changes than in the agricultural settlement of the year. We have also made tough priorities within the instrument system, including: by making a contribution to the production of more food. The government has also taken decisions to further develop and modernise administration. In 2014, we have merged agricultural and reindeer management with the Directorate of Agriculture. We will improve the efficiency of the institute sector by bringing together three research institutes from 1 July next year. Our new institute will be among the largest in the country. We also propose to facilitate the reorganisation of the Food Safety Authority in order to release resources for increased supervision. In the budget, we are proposing a new treatment system for the natural damage system. This is necessary in order to comply with the already adopted Natural Damage Act and will contribute to more efficient public resource use and more rapid procedural procedures. All these are necessary modernisation measures that will contribute to a more efficient management and the institutional sector, with an increased focus on addressing core tasks. One of the challenges facing agriculture is recruitment. Over the last 10 years, the average age of the holder has increased by almost two years. The Government considers that the measures and re-orientation of agricultural and food policies currently envisaged in many areas are important to contribute to future recruitment to the industry. If we are to have a strong national agricultural sector, it is important that the food produced is safe. The government has launched a series of measures to prevent antibiotic-resistant bacteria. In the budget, we propose a compensation scheme for pig producers hit by LA-MRSA. We are strengthening monitoring and research in this area until next year. This is also the most important topic for me to address in international forums. It is also something that the Minister of Health will give a very high priority. We have a favourable starting point in Norway, but antibiotic resistance knows no borders. We are now working to get an overview of the knowledge needs we have regarding the ESBL bacteria in chicken production, and we will receive recommendations from the Veterinary Institute, the Institute for Public Health and the Food Safety on what we should prioritise in research on this topic. A key element in facilitating agriculture for the 21st century is the creation of increased activity in forestry. Growth in Norwegian forests has been high over the last decades, and poor infrastructure has made it difficult to exploit these resources. During the time the Progress Party-Right Government has ruled, the posts for forest roads have increased by almost 40 pst. - and now it's over 120 million. kr next year. This is important in order to take out more timber and thus ensure value creation from Norwegian forests. The agricultural and food industry in Norway is something we have reason to be proud of. We must take care of the advantages we have, with good animal health, plant health and animal welfare. However, the industry and farmers as self-employed must be allowed to develop on the premises of today and the future. This is also important for the food industry. The bacteria depend on the existence of farmers that supply animals to them in order to exist. Dairies depend on the existence of milk producers supplying milk for their existence. Norwegian agriculture depends on changes in order to increase food production, and the whole value chain needs to be seen in the context.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1210	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1213	In the implementation of the year’s agricultural settlement, it was found that the government, through both offers and negotiations, was in spite of the bulk of the population. In one of the Committee's Committee's comments, it appeared that future agricultural settlements should be in line with the indications on the basis of which this farm was set up. It has also been quite clear that, on several occasions, the Council of State has not been fully in line with the bulk of population. My question is then: will the Council of State, when implementing the next agricultural settlement, base the views of the majority of the population on the negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1220	This government has good cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party, and I think we came up with very good solutions in the agricultural agreement that was adopted this year. We put in place many changes that are absolutely necessary for agriculture in the future. Of course, it is natural for me, when I am going to start next year's agricultural settlement, to follow up on the comments that stand in that settlement, and also, of course, have conversations and contact with those of our cooperation partners with whom it is natural to have it. I'm concerned that we're going to have a policy for agriculture that gives development, and I'm also happy that the arrows are now starting to point the right way. This year, agriculture was granted a long-lasting good year in terms of weather conditions. They really needed that, because 2013 was very difficult. I hope that too will contribute to the optimism in the industry that we really need in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1230	Today's debate and line changes have shown that there is a majority in the Business Committee and an underlying majority in the UK too, which believes that the government has now abandoned the active business policy. There are also several other exciting majority comments that we can come back to, but one of the most important – in my opinion also as part of an active enterprise policy – is the one where the majority of the Committee on page 71 says that there is a need for a bioeconomy strategy. This majority also states that such a strategy must be ensured funding in the 2016 budget. Will the Council of State follow up on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1239	That's the way a government council should follow up on what's the majority's observations in the Storting, and of course we will. Now there's a lot of exciting happening in the forest sector in the future. Among other things, SKOG22 will deliver its report in January, and I hope that there will also be many exciting suggestions on how we can use the resource forest in the future. It is also an important part of what becomes a bioeconomy strategy. This is a work that, of course, I'm concerned that we're going to do in a good way. I believe we have great opportunities in Norway. We have a lot of good businesses – Borregaard is often drawn out as one of them. So here we're going to work on setting up a good strategy that we can use for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1248	I Prop. 108 S for 2013–2014, which is the reindeer management agreement – then we know what it's all about – as we got in our Stortinget, it says: ‘Adapting a grazing pressure to the grazing basis is the most demanding challenge facing reindeer management. However, according to the Ministry’s assessment, it is now better able to manage the scale adjustment than in the past.’ This was joyous things in ours, but the challenge is that it is now harvest and soon winter and the situation is different: we are told that it is debilitated animals that are being slaughtered. My question to the Council of State is: what has happened since that optimism, I would say, that was in the redundancy agreement that Stortinget has been dealing with today?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1258	I'm still optimistic, because we've now halved the number of pure that's too much. Then we're going down another tenth of a thousand to April 1 next year. What's the feedback, is that there's now a lot of slaughter, so if this continues into the new year, there will be a new record. So I think it's important to say that very many parts of the industry have done a very good job. Two thirds have followed up the requirements that have been set, and they have reduced their purity to the level that they want. It is the last third that remains, which is located in West Finland. We're now working very actively on this. The cleaning board is on the ball, they are working very actively to achieve a further reduction, which is absolutely necessary in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1267	The agricultural settlement contained in the budget here is a different agricultural settlement than the Council of State and the Government wanted. My question is a little bit about what thoughts you have for the spring settlement and how you should handle it. Shall one continue to disregard the will of the Great, or shall one follow the will of the Great? I would like to quote a note from the attitude of the agricultural settlement, where the Labour Party, the Central Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, the majority, say that: ‘really increased self-sufficiency depends on increased food production on the basis of Norwegian resources. This must be taken into account in the formulation of agricultural policy.’ Will this happen? And is this a goal that the government agrees with?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1277	When it comes to the agricultural settlement for next year, we haven't gotten that far in the process, of course, that we've begun to plan it in detail. But it will be entirely in place and natural that I, as the Council of State, look to what happened last year, and follow up the majority comments that are there, with our partners. That being said, it is important for me to continue the work on simplification. That's something that's absolutely necessary. We have a very complicated agricultural agreement on which there is a basis for making more changes. So that work will continue. I would also like to say that I am very pleased with the result we got in the agricultural agreement for this year. It has given farmers the opportunity to bet more. For example, all milk quotas have now been cancelled after we had the auction round in the autumn, as they have. did not stay in 2013. So it seems to be optimism in the industry, and I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1286	I was in my main post at Left's ambitions for agricultural research in general and Bioforsk in particular, and I went forward Tingvoll and especially as good examples. My question to the Minister of Agriculture is: can we expect that the Council of State will focus on preserving the wider sphere of competence, as we have today, i.e. not centralisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1291	Yes, I can assure you that we want to have a decentralised research environment. But the reason why we're going to merge the three research institutions that we have in agriculture is that I'm going to think that this will enable us to bring together the forces and get a more robust research environment, which can become even stronger than it is today. But I see clearly the need to have a decentralised structure, that we must maintain the professional environment, which has expertise in some areas. That's something we'll of course take with us in the further work. I have full confidence that Einar Steensnæs, who is now leading this merger process with the three institutes, will do a good job towards the summer, when this is going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1296	Everyone says they're for increased food production in Norway, but I think there's a pretty big difference between the parties that want Norwegian food production based on Norwegian resources, and those who want to increase food production based on imported resources. One of the most increasing is chicken and poultry production. You can't say that it's Norwegian food production when most of it's imported power feed. The other problem with this industry is that we know that the industry is developing more and more antibiotic-resistant bacteria, both in turkeys and in chickens. Now doctors at Norwegian hospitals – and the Minister of Health also says it – warn that it can beat the legs away from all modern medicine. Therefore, SV believes that we need to set a clear deadline for this industry to be free of antibiotic resistant bacteria. Will the Council of State set such a deadline?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1303	First for chicken and pigs. The alternative to importing feed will be to import ready-made chicken and pigs from other countries. What we know is that we have a wonderful situation in Norway if we compare ourselves to other countries. Among other things, it is related to: together with the use of low levels of antibiotics compared to most other countries, and that is a situation that we need to take care of and continue to have. As regards the deadline for antibiotics, I believe that it is not right to do so now. We have too little knowledge. It is also the feedback that I get from our underlying professional body. Both the Institute of Public Health, the Swedish Food Authority and the Veterinary Institute are aware that we need more research and knowledge. Then I think it is important to say that I see that most doctors who have expressed themselves in this matter say that they themselves eat chicken, and that it is not dangerous to eat chicken, but it is important to prepare well, have good hygiene and follow the advice that applies when preparing food.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1312	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1316	The State budget for 2015 is a strong and forward-looking budget for knowledge and competitiveness. A historical investment in, among others: research and tax relief will contribute to securing Norwegian jobs and ownership. The budget has provided room for many of the government’s priorities in the government platform for Norway to claim among the most innovative countries. Norway is one of the world's leading maritime nations. Today it is approx. 110000 directly employed in the maritime sector — a large proportion of these in the districts. The maritime industries represent 10 pst. of the total value creation in the country and analyses show that the value is above 220 billion. kr. It nourishes the maritime industry to the second largest export industry after the oil industry. The Norwegian maritime environment is among the most complete in width of both services, product and knowledge. An important basis for maintaining and further developing our strong maritime sector is that Norwegian ships are owned and driven from Norway. Here the government has taken several good steps, and several good measures to strengthen the maritime industry are awaiting from the government. The opportunities facing the maritime sector are not realised by themselves, but require long-term commitment from industry and authorities. The interaction between the authorities and the industry is central in this context. The government praises the way they involve the maritime industry in the work on the alert maritime strategy. It is the first time since the introduction of a net pay regime for seafarers that we are now receiving a price growth adjustment for this measure in this budget. The lack of adjustment under the red-green government has weakened the competitiveness of the maritime industry. For several years it has been expressed dissatisfaction from the maritime industry that the scheme has not been price adjusted. In addition, the government has strengthened the Norwegian maritime administration. They are exposed to competition by allowing the fleets to choose to register their vessels in other countries. The service and availability of maritime administrations is a competitive factor. With the government's strength, it facilitates increased flagging in both NIS and NOR. This is important in order to strengthen competitiveness and maintain Norway’s influence in international maritime bodies. The Government also emphasises that Norway should have competitive financing arrangements for Norwegian exports. There is a strong need for Norway to participate in the negotiations on the new international public export finance agreement, which also includes non-OECD countries, such as Norway. China and Brazil. These are important markets for the export-right marine industry and the oil and gas industry. These industries must be based on variable crude oil prices, to which we are witnessing today, in a way both the gas and the brake on their activities at the same time. They need to balance the short-term fluctuations in demand resulting from changes in crude oil prices, but have the long-term perspective that these industries will return more strongly. In this country, fields like Johan Sverdrup, Ivar Aasen, Edvard Grieg and several other smaller fields will be built even if the crude oil price falls. The cost focus of these industries now needs to make maritime industry more competitive in the long term. The Norwegian maritime industry and the supplier industry have been best in their field by managing risks, costs and insecurity over many decades. For the right, it is important that the government provides a framework that allows the industries to grow even in the years to come. This is a good and proper government budget that will help to strengthen Norwegian competitiveness in these industries, but also in other industries. It is important to pass on the initiative of the Government and the Cooperation Party of the Left and the Christian People's Party now to promote competitiveness. It is only in this way that we can strengthen our competitiveness to the best of future generations. I'm a little surprised when I hear the debate here today. Else-May Botten argues that she thinks – at least I think so – that the budget is too expansive. It is true that when the oil price falls and the Norwegian dollar falls, one way or another, is losing confidence in the Norwegian economy. It is then important that we are ambitious and have resources to use on behalf of Norway, and that is what this government is doing to invest in nutrition and industrial development and competitiveness. That's why it was very liberating to listen to Torgeir Knag County today, with his frame-salted criticism of the government for eight years, who never managed to meet and deliver on this. But that's what we're getting right now. We have received a government that has put together a budget with the Stortinget that will create Norwegian competitiveness for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1342	From the government we hear that big tax cuts to the richest are the solution to how we're going to increase growth and hence more in work. However, cutting taxes on wealth is something that most economic professors clearly express that there is no basis for doing so. In addition, when we have a government that leaves the active industrial policy that the Stoltenberg government led, we fear that the consequences of this are Norway with increasing differences. We remember the last right in government and the statement by the Minister of Economic Affairs Ansgar Gabrielsen: The Toolbox is empty. That's how he expressed it on several occasions. We also see the outlines in the budget that we are dealing with today. It must be strange for the Right, which likes to present itself as a business party, to experience the comment of the majority of the Business Committee – as referred to several times in this debate – which states ‘that the government, by cutting off geographical and industry-specific instruments, leaves an active industrial policy in favour of a more neutral industrial policy’. More clearly, it cannot be said from a majority. In the Workers' Party, we are committed to an active industrial policy, with a focus on growth throughout the country. One of the district-enemy cuts the government is making is that this year they again cut cuts in the regional development funds, combined to cut in about half. 40 pst. in the last two years, which will hit value creation and jobs across the country. In response to my reply, the minister characterized this as narrow. Then I ask myself, does the minister know what these funds are going to? The evaluation shows the exact opposite, namely broad success assurance. In the Workers' Party's alternative budget, we have increased these funds by 300 million. kr. We fear that this cut, together with the cut in Innovation Norway and the review of their objectives and organisational structure, will be devastating to the county council, as is the good economic operator it is. Furthermore, we have opposed the government's proposal for an increase in the amount of free online commerce. During the consultation, the NHO and several other major actors were very clear that this proposal was directly anti-commercial and would put several thousand jobs at risk. The working party is dedicated to focusing on industrial conditions. That's why last year, in the budget, we were ready to reverse the government's cut in the CO2 compensation scheme. The same applies to the Government's proposal this year to close the scheme of grants to the purchasing consortium for the purchase of power. The Eco-Technology Scheme, introduced by the government of Stoltenberg, is described in an evaluation as a success. In the budget of the Labour Party, we are adding up to a strengthening of this, by 200 million. in addition to the Government's proposals. We also support and are pleased that the Christian People's Party and the Left, through the budget negotiations, set up two new seed funds next year. In addition to this, the Workers' Party proposes that, in the context of the revised National Budget for 2015, the government return with a plan for the creation of several new funds. We have also been given clear insights that early-stage capital is needed to bring growth businesses above the valley of so-called death. Therefore, the Workers Party has launched its accelerator program for entrepreneurs and has set aside 250 million. kr in its alternative budget. This government's mantra has been cutting red tape. As we see it, there's just increased bureaucracy the government proposes when they set up a new rule board at a cost of $7 million. kr. In this context, it is pointed out that in the period 2006–2012, Sweden — with such a regulatory board — reduced the administrative costs of industry by 6.8 billion. kr. In one third of that time, the government simplified the administrative costs of business by 5 billion. kr. This shows that the Norwegian model of simplification under the red-green government was significantly more effective than the Swedish regulatory board.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1366	The government’s budget proposal is the clearest right-wing budget that any government has presented in modern times in Norway. The idea of equality is no longer the authoritative idea – bet in the whole country and district policy is gone. The trend of centralisation is speeding up, business neutrality is in place, and active industrial policies have been abolished. Dynamic tax policies have re-emerged, and without it being shown to be the only country with large tax cuts that has had welfare growth — across the board. Major differences do not create dynamics and conversion. All the knowledge of state science and economic theory shows us that it is the societies that are stable, that have high taxes, that have good social conditions for the whole population, and that have strong communities in their culture, that are also the societies that give the best return on capital, and that give the most value creation. Norway shall become the world's foremost maritime competence. But can we use the government's recipe? If the foundation is gone, can we achieve that goal? The reason why I ask this question is that important concerns have been raised before the fisheries policy has been put into practice. We all know that a breakout and amendment of the Participant Act is risk sport if we want to retain nationality requirements and activity requirements. How can one say that the fishing resources belong to the Norwegian people, but one should introduce eternal quotas? Is it okay that a few powerful quota barons dispose of all the fishing resources to Norway? And will the state set up and change the rules when the shipowners buy too large boats and too expensive quotas? Or do those who don't structure, demand custody, that we stick to the agreement that when the quotas fall back to the state, they will be reclaimed in the fleet group? There are many questions that Stortinget has to decide on. We cannot accept that a minority government is destroying the foundation of our fisheries policy. The debate must be anchored in Stortinget, and we must have a wide lashing. The working party will have a Norwegian-owned fleet of active fishermen along the whole coast. We also want a white fish package where we increase leadership, market work and measures to improve quality and get smoother access to raw materials. Then I find out that the representative Bakke-Jensen believes that the market has cleaned up all of this. The working party will continue the Marine value creation program. This is precisely to help realise the value creation potential of the marine food industry. This programme covers the whole value chain and is aimed at those enterprises with the highest growth potential within the groups of seafood producers, marine residues and suppliers of technology and services for maritime food industries. This application has been shut down by the government a few days before the Tveterås selection comes up with its option, among other things. how to improve the profitability of the rural industry before fishing will be a theme. Self-catching has been a theme where the Storting has been brought together. In particular, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy expressed its opinion on the budget increase. Both the fishing boat and the fishing team the importance of continuing to support self-anxiety, which would be shut down without this support. The selenium is a togong that we have in quotas today, it's said. There are differences of opinion as to whether the Norwegian take-off of the sell-out is a key factor for fish stocks, but there is no doubt that the total cell stock is relevant to the total raw material supply. I want to site the previous Fisheries Policy spokesman to the Progress Party, current parliamentary leader, Harald T. Nesvik: ‘The party concerned that the taxation of sales will not escalate will continue to increase in the north and thus pose a threat to the resource management of the marine biodiversity and the ecosystem along the Norwegian coast.’ Now that the Progress Party has power and image, select them to put down the whole industry. It is to be tall, dark and broad-eyed in the opposition and completely without backbone in position. In stark contrast to that, the Labour Party has the same policy as before, and has put in the means to continue with self-afraid also in our alternative budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1390	Norwegian seafood provides healthy food and technology to produce enough food for a growing world population. The government has great ambitions for Norwegian maritime nutrition and has received a majority for a budget for the marine industries that are investing in research and knowledge to ensure future value creation in the marine food industry. We are now equipping the industry for the future. For Norway, as a maritime economy, it is important to be knowledge-leading in areas of strategic importance for the further development and growth of Norwegian marine nutrition. The health platform is clear that we want to invest in the fisheries and aquaculture industry. The government follows this up in the budget and in the long-term research programme presented in the autumn, where the sea is one of the priority areas. We also follow up with different devices to bet that the entire value chain should actually be able to take out increased value creation. Today, over the state budget, 2 billion are allocated. kr for marine research. In 2014, the marine research effort was reinforced by 55 million. kr. In 2015, the marine research effort will increase by another 55 million. kr, which totals 110 million. kr more for marine research since the government shift last autumn. The initiative shall provide more knowledge as a basis for sustainable growth in the seafood industry. I would therefore like to distance myself from the fact that this is a business-neutral budget and a business-neutral policy, but I understand that the instruments have come into other items and accounts than the opposition would wish. Research on fish health and feed is one of the priority areas. We need to know the safety of the seafood we eat. We also strengthen stock research and invest in marine data infrastructure with a total of 20 million. kr, which will improve the quality and amount of data in stock research. It is also necessary to improve the dialogue between fishermen and researchers. In addition, the appropriations for industrial research such as technology development, marine bioeconomy development, live storage, internationalisation and knowledge and competence building at marine research institutes are increased. The government’s Northern Region Strategy points to the industrial potential in the north. In marine industry, there is a high value creation potential in traditional fisheries, further development of the aquaculture industry and not least in new marine and biomarine industries. Here, there is a large and untapped potential that will require a lot of expertise and will benefit the northern part of the country. In the field of innovation, it will be strengthened, inter alia: the eco-technology scheme with a total of 150 million. kr. This is a general scheme, but it's worth stressing that marine nutrition enjoys very much of being able to apply here, and has many good projects. I am also pleased that the marine research profile was further strengthened in comparison with the Christian People's Party and the Left. It shows that the ambitions of the government parties in this area are shared by our partners. 2015 will be a very important and exciting year for fisheries policy. The Government will facilitate predictable and sustainable continued growth in the aquaculture industry. We now have to consult the forerunner of what will be the big message to be presented to the Stortinge before Easter. On December 16, i.e. this week, I receive the Marine Food Industry Committee's report on the profitability of the seafood industry. After a broad consultation and a hopefully good and thorough debate, the government around the next turn of the year will present a big message and legislative proposals that follow up the sample. In addition, in the new year there will be a message to the Stortinget about the Royal Cancer Administration. I am also pleased to inform the Storting that most fisheries agreements for 2015 are now in place, as the Committee has underlined the importance of. Tripartite agreement between the EU, the Faeroe Islands and Norway on mackerel is in place. Norwegian-Russian agreement on cod in the Barents Sea is in place. In addition, we have also got an agreement on us. Bilateral agreements between Norway and the EU and Norway and Greenland have been finalised and will now remain herring and collegue, which I hope we will achieve in the next week when the negotiators meet again. All in all, all these agreements are important to ensure sustainable management, to ensure that Norway receives its fair share of the allocation of allowances, and to ensure satisfactory resource control. Historically, the fishing industry has been a very important industry for Norway. We want to strengthen the competitiveness of this industry, so that it can become an equally important industry for the future. Sunn food from our cold, clean seas is a competitive advantage Norway has, and as the government will do everything in its power to build on and develop, so that many new jobs can be created here in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1411	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1414	Part of the remuneration for the new green concessions went to the municipalities concerned. But it might seem that the state has given this consideration to the individual concessionaire to distribute it, uncertainly according to what criterion. I quote from SalMar's press release on December 4th this year: «SalMar will in the near future allocate SEK 86 million to 13 municipalities hosting the green farming concessions.» Does the Minister for Fisheries think it is the state that should allocate these funds, or is it the individual company?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1424	I hear the words in the press release from SalMar. It is true that the company points out that the municipalities where they have premises, where they intend to establish their new business, are actually the municipalities that will receive this remuneration. I'm very happy to say that the incentives that the government is so clear that municipalities that facilitate this industry will also get something back in terms of a good part of that remuneration going to these municipalities, is a policy that seems to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1429	I believe the Council of State replied that it was the state that would distribute these funds. I want a little bit of follow-up on it. Of all the funds that came now, nothing came to the old host municipalities, those who have our good host municipalities over the years too many breeding companies. Does the Minister think that it is reasonable that these should not receive any remuneration?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1434	When remuneration is allocated and when new concessions are granted, the scheme is now such that the remuneration goes to the municipality that has the new concessions. So the government has signaled that we are seeing that future growth is going to happen as a combination of new concessions and growth on existing concessions. In that case, municipalities with existing concessions that are growing and for which payment is due will also be in a position to receive remuneration.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1439	This autumn there has been a debate on maritime landfill, because at some point we have to take a final decision here, and it has been particularly about Fördefjorden. A lot of people have been on the field. One of them is my associate on the nutrition committee, Ove Bernt Trellevik. He says to Bergen's Official Journal on 20 November this year that he wants the property to be approved in Fördefjorden. That's a good point of view, but it's something from the reason I want to quote: ‘I believe we must be able to sacrifice the identified spawning and breeding areas of the Fördefjord. It is not the case that the fish die out of that ground." And on the other hand, ‘If you take a fjord, it’s not that the population depends on it alone. We have a lot of coasts left». That's what Wraith's representative Ove Bernt Trellevik says. My question to the Council of State is whether this is an approach to maritime landfill supported by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1456	If you read the government statement, you'll see that this government wants to bet on many industries. At the same time, I want to say that the government is also very concerned that when we're going to make decisions on such issues, we're going to make decisions on a knowledgeable and up-to-date basis. If the matter that is now referred to, it is to say that this is a case that is exchange-sensitive. The government is now working on the knowledge base we have, to be able to make a decision when that time comes. But I'm concerned that we're going to see that we have a lot of industries that have great potential, and that we need to find good balances here.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1464	I would like to hear the Council of State's assessment that she will go into history, probably, as the Council of State that abolished the long tradition of Norwegian self-afraid. What does the Council of State think of that? And what reasons does the government really have for cutting off all support for Norwegian self-afraid overnight, and thus actually wind up the industry? Is it relevant for the Council of State to go back on this and resume support for self-afraid?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1469	Budgetary work is made up of many difficult balances as to what is the most important thing to use in the future. In the case of the self-growth industry, it has long been dependent on public transfers. And last year, according to the Directorate of Fisheries, the share of total industry income in the subsidy is now 70-80 pst. - 70-80 pst. is the State aid share of industry revenue. In addition, when we get information from our marine scientists that the catch in recent years is so modest that it can hardly be said to be stock-regulating, we have come to the conclusion that it is not right to use these means in this industry. But I remember today's whaling industry goes without subsidies. I sincerely hope that the markets out there and the industry will be able to work on this further, and that there are still actors who want to operate in this industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1476	The Minister for Fisheries mentioned this in his statement with the mackerel agreement concluded with some countries, but without a significant actor: Iceland. My question to the Council of State, since she mentioned it in her excellent speech, is: How will it be worked to include all actors fishing on a stock that is unusually important both for the Norwegian fishing industry and for the Norwegian economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1481	The answer to that is that we need to continue to intensify the research cooperation that is around these agreements, and that we can agree on a zone basis that we believe from the Norwegian side is fair. There is no doubt that there has been contact between the EU and Iceland – not this year, but last year – which made Iceland claim the table that we from Norway thought was completely unacceptable. That's why we didn't get Iceland in last year, and we didn't get them in this year either. But I'm glad to say that I think we're approaching the point where we have a better scientific basis to go on, given next year's negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1488	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1491	The budget that is under consideration today is incredibly important for the area that I contribute to daily, labour market policy, and that is important for the distribution of society. Because it is quite right, as the government says – there they have passed the line from the previous government – that the greatest difference in society is between those who have work and those who have no work. It's important to stick to it. That is why we are very critical that the government is not now listening to business with regard to the legislation on permitting, especially in a situation where the government itself warns that unemployment should increase. So they make it impossible for companies to keep permanent employees for a period of time, which makes it harder to be a serious business in Norway. That is why we are also critical that the government cuts in the number of action places, at a time when unemployment seems to increase. The most important labour market policy is actually industrial policy. That's why, even in our fraction, we're very disappointed by what's happening in business policy, when a cutter in the Marine Value Creation Program. Norway is, in fact, the second world's largest exporter in the marine sector, which is very largely based on traditional knowledge of product, i.e. fish, and of markets, from fishermen along the coast of Norway, where it is focused on research and development in feed, meddling and technology over the years. So this interaction has led us to be world leaders in an area where we know that the breeding part is even more important today than the still important wild fish part. That's why we're disappointed with the commitment to the maritime strategy, a carrier in Norwegian society, with 100,000 jobs in the important cluster around an industry based on shipping. In fact, Norway is not going to be a maritime nation if we do not engage in shipping in the future. That is why we are disappointed with the efforts made in the tourism sector, and that is, not least, why we are disappointed with the cuts made in Innovation Norway. It is a majority in the Great Britain, i.e. the three former government parties, together with the Left and Christian People's Party, which criticizes the industry neutrality of the government. Our option is to invest in environmental technologies, it is to invest in the areas I have now mentioned, it is to invest in an accelerator programme, and it is to invest in the business life of the future. A very good picture was the government's famous proposal to increase the limit on VAT-free imports from abroad, where the government said it was willing to spend $180 million. to get rid of jobs in Norway and to strengthen foreign enterprises in competition with Norwegian enterprises. This is a good example of the political situation, because after the negotiations in the Grand Duchy, the government was slowing down some of the budgetary agreement partners. The budget continues to go in the wrong direction – also in that area – but with little less steps. A good picture of the differences in policy, I think, is forestry policy. There we put in a massive bet as a follow-up to our program, Woods of Norway, where we put on the different elements in the entire value chain from forest to finished product, where we need to research and develop new uses, not least of the slip, to get up the value of it, and where we need to invest in the future. I think – partly because I am interested in forest – this is a very good picture of the government's attitude to industrial policy. For those forests that are now highly mature in Norway, — if they are on good soil — they were planted only in the 1950s, and some of them were planted in the 1940s, at times when Norway had very poor advice. At the time, forward-looking people took the money to invest in something that was going to take a very long time before it gave return, and today we have more resources in the forest than ever, among other things. because someone was afraid to bet even in bad times. And then maybe we should be the generation that unloads the one-time revenue from oil and gas, and that can't afford to invest in tomorrow's possible returns in forest. So poor can be in such a rich country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1506	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1509	The policy we have to have something to live on in the future and have jobs is important. It is very strange to hear about the government’s main strategy, which is tax-free and larger differences, when only a few days ago we could read that the OECD – which is not exactly under-use of SV – concludes that ‘economic inequality has reduced economic growth in Norway by nine percent’. It'll get worse if you keep going on that gall. Having little differences means getting better growth, and it kind of surprises me that the government isn't listening to this. The OECD recommendation to all countries is clear: If you want competitiveness, you have to ensure fair distribution. SV is concerned that we should produce Norwegian food on Norwegian resources. That is why we believe that the share of imports of power feed must be reduced and that we must focus on production which is primarily based on the Norwegian resource base. We think we need to have the combination user. Much of the food soil will not be used for production if it is not the bearer of our agriculture. We believe that we need to focus more on research and development and are very critical of the government's cutting this. SV wants its own animal supervision. We'll get back to it in our own proposal, but it's absolutely necessary to get this in place. It cannot be part of the Food Authority in the future. We also propose a deadline for the production of chicken free from antibiotic resistant bacteria. It is absolutely necessary to set deadlines for the achievement of the objective. I have often been involved in not doing so, and then you don't reach the goal. One must have a deadline, and it is not a good strategy for Norwegian food production that we cannot tell consumers that they can be sure of it. So this is not about anyone spreading anxiety, it's about, for example. what is in the Minister of Health's reply to me this week: ‘We are facing a risk of a future without effective antibiotics where infections that we today consider to be harmless can again become a serious health problem and a frequent cause of death.’ This isn't about the chicken being dangerous, it's about the bacteria becoming resistant to medicine. That's what's dangerous. Then to the forest bet. SV is shocked that last year the government removed the subsidy for the industrial production of tiles. Many jobs disappeared. Research and support for increased use of wood are now being removed. There is a need for a big effort on this. To get a switch from oil to forest, nutrition neutrality does not work as a tool. I finally mentioned SV's proposal No. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1529	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1532	It is nice to note that today's agricultural policy seems to have a positive impact on industry. Fewer farmers have left the industry in the last year, there is a greater demand for investment funds via Innovation Norway, and there is an increase in the number of students applying for agricultural-related education. Under the previous government, agricultural land was reduced, the proportion of land rented increased, the level of self-sufficiency decreased, the average age of farmers increased, and 180 000 yearly works left the industry. The Government and the Cooperation Parties agree that reforms are needed to increase profitability. We want an environmentally friendly, sustainable and forward-looking Norwegian agriculture with both small and large consumption across the country. We believe that this year's agricultural settlement responds to the challenges facing Norwegian agriculture. It ensures farmers an income development in line with other occupational groups. The final results of the agricultural negotiations under the previous government have also largely given rise to income growth as for other groups. It seems to be quite simple for the Workers' Party and the Centre's party to promise large increases in the agricultural agreement when they are in opposition, without fulfilling when they themselves were in position. The government has been criticised for too little effort on research, on the Food Authority and on support for organisations, etc. A proposal for a budget by a minority government is not final until negotiations with the cooperation parties have been concluded. There's a lot of research going on. The draft budget proposes to use 419 million. kr on the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, and we prioritise research that contributes to increased food security, food security and climate. The government is also committed to strengthening private research capital, and has therefore strengthened the SkattenFUNN scheme and prioritised lower taxes on wealth. The budget agreement further strengthened research by 32 million. kr. We do not cut the budget of the Food Authority: we strengthen the supervision of 15 million. NOK 2015, in addition to full compensation for wage and price increases. In the context of supervision, the focus has been increased on salmon, seafood, laboratory animals and pesticides, and not least on monitoring and measures against antibiotic resistance. The budget for support to organisations was initially nearly 21 million. kr and was further reinforced in the agreement, by 5,5 million. kr. The fact that some organisations have free office space in the counties is perceived as unfair, and this is proposed to be closed in the long term. This is a budget that solves important tasks today and in the future, both for agriculture and for the food industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1551	The representative Frank Bakke-Jensen took up the demanding situation in the petroleum industry, and I support the concern, to put it that way. But he also addressed the difference between active and inactive policies – as the representative called it. It could be interesting to hear what Hill-Jensen then wants to do in the situation that is. We see all sorts of signals that indicate that it will last in 2015, and possibly 2016 as well. So what kind of action is what you want to do in that situation? Can you see any grip there? So to the representative Gunnar Gundersen's response in the line exchange instead, about the payroll tax, where he wouldn't do anything now, even if you've put this into the government platform. The argument was that the Scheel selection had to present its setting first. It's strange that with regard to the payroll tax, the Scheel Committee has to say something, but with regard to the property tax, which you cut by over 4 billion. If you have actually criticised yourself for being discriminatory, you will not have knowledge or a factual basis for doing the right things for the future. As for the representative of Øyvind Korsberg, who claimed that the red-green government was passive in terms of maritime policy, I would like to say that the red-green government took over in 2005, and we took over a bourgeois chaos in view of what was done in maritime nutrition. The then net pay scheme was subject to change every six months. It was unpredictable what the industry was going to do. When we got into government, we took action and put in place a strategy that gave rise to the net pay scheme, to the shipping tax system – we had almost 60 different measures in the first strategy, which was implemented. In addition, we presented a new plan for 2020 in August last year, which provided offensive new responses to this. So to the year's budget and the net pay scheme. Everyone but the Left agrees that we need to raise the ceiling by NOK 4000, i.e. from NOK 198 000 to NOK 202,000. It is good that we do that, because it is important to strengthen the competitive situation. But then you can't say that it's just the Progress Party, for example, who wants to do this, it's actually a large majority who want to do it. The Christian People's Party, the Labour Party and the Center Party go further than the government, so the offensive bet must also go further in 2015, with the strategy to be discussed and I look forward to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1563	In the north, SV went to the elections to say yes to North Norway. We want the future to be shaped by people in the country, based on the most important advantages we have, namely renewable natural resources. This is what provides the basis for food production in fisheries and agriculture, tourism and tourism, and for renewable energy industries. No one has better conditions for green conversion than we have in Norway, with our industrial history and our broad industrial competence. The government is going in completely the opposite direction to what we in the SV will go in, by saying no to North Norway, with a policy that distorts nutrition and opportunities, by cutting support for agriculture and important fisheries policy measures and by cutting resources for travel and regional development, rather than focusing unilaterally on oil and gas – two non-renewable downturn industries with totally obvious environmental battles, and which in many places are in direct conflict with existing jobs. It also makes us vulnerable. Now it is probably only to start fishing again, said one of the employees at Aibel in Hammerfest, after being told that 20 employees would lose their job. It is not by chance that you go back to fishing and see the hope. That's the industry that's always been carried in the north. Dryfish was our very first currency. SV wants the most important resource of the future, namely young people, to see the opportunities that lie in our renewable industries, and that as a society, we should be able to prioritise the wise minds, the competent hands and the great capital in a sustainable and renewable direction. Therefore, SV will have a Nordic investment fund, because our part of the country is rich in resources, but not necessarily on capital. In the government we conducted an active industrial policy that we now see replaced with business neutrality. I fear that we will see great need to take action, but without anything happening or doing, and that we will see a business that stands and shakes and shakes on the toolbox without a single sound, because the toolbox they shake on is empty of content. And when you hear the debate here, you should think that it was Right Policy that led to employment and industry, but then why was it that the growth in employment was much higher when the red-greens crashed, even though it was financial crisis, than when the Right fell in the period before?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1576	An offensive climate policy not only can, but will make Norwegian business more competitive. This struck, among other things: The New Climate Economy Report fixed when it came early in the fall. In close cooperation with industry, the Left will therefore step up efforts to reduce and eliminate emissions and facilitate more green growth in Norwegian business. In fact, a large part of Norwegian industry is based on sustainable renewable energy, and Norwegian metallurgical and process-industrial research environments are world leaders. The left will facilitate the further development of these world-leading knowledge environments for sustainable industrial production. If we are to succeed in the green shift, it is important to strengthen the instruments that contribute to technology development, such as: the eco-innovation scheme under Innovation Norway. The Eco-Technology Scheme reviewed an evaluation in 2013 which concluded that the scheme is relevant, as it has a full trigger rate of 83 pst. There is also a clear lack of capital for environmental technology projects in Norway. I am therefore satisfied that this scheme was reinforced by 100 million. through the budgetary agreement between the Right and the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party and the Left. Overall, it allocates a total of 330 million to the Eco-Technology Scheme. kr. As part of the process of transforming Norway and adapting Norway to new requirements and opportunities, Norwegian tourism industry is an important green sector to invest in. Norwegian travel has great potential for development. To take advantage of these opportunities, we need good and solid products to sell and good and solid products to buy. Individual operators in the tourism industry do a great job separately and through the destination companies. Destination companies, on their part, are immeasurably important for the development of Norwegian travel lives. Where the authorities really have a job to do, they are on the international marketing of Norway and Norway as destinations. That's why it was disappointing to see that the government would cut $40 million. SEK in the marketing of Norway as a destination by Innovation Norway. In our alternative budget, the Left would reverse this cut, which we've been to before today. The result after the budgetary agreement with the government parties and the Christian People's Party was 20 million. kr. This is a minimum solution that we want to work to improve on the next crossroads.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1587	After Erna Solberg took over as Prime Minister, investments in higher education and research have been given a strong boost. Never before has public funding for research accounted for a higher share of GDP. The share of GDP is estimated to be 0.93 p.p., higher than ever in the 2000s. There is no point in itself in increasing public expenditure, but it is an important point to invest in knowledge to strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian industry and to address major societal challenges. In Norway, we benefit from high wages and a well-developed welfare state, and both cost money. The high pay makes us unable to compete at price, we have to work smarter or compete at quality. The welfare systems make us dependent on high value creation to make them sustainable. We get an increasing proportion of older people who need more care, while not getting a corresponding increase in the workforce. It is easy to understand that Norway will become one of the world’s most innovative countries, where it will be attractive to establish itself. It's something else to put it into practice. While other countries have strengthened their commitment to education and research in recent years, Norway has slowed down. There has been an increase in R & D investment in recent years, but not in comparison with many of our competitors. A number of countries invest more than twice as much in research as Norway as a share of GDP, and they have world-class educational institutions that annually train a surplus of highly educated relevant labour to ensure their own competitiveness in the future. That is why it is good that we now see a shift in research policy. The growth of public investment in research and development is higher in the State budget for 2014 and 2015 than the averages for the last eight years. The agreement in Stortinget provides for a total appropriation for research and development of more than 30 billion. kr. I guess that's 2.1 billion. kr more than in 2014, which corresponds to a real growth of 4,2 pst – and the comparison has increased. Priority is given to the development of world-leading trade unions, more recruitment positions and funding for equipment and new university buildings. The budgetary agreement also represents a strong commitment to new business, new technology and innovation. Two new seed funds shall be set up, in which the State supports private investors to develop new enterprises that in many cases have their origins in the university and research environments. In addition, it is targeted at instruments that we know stimulate business to invest more in its own research, while at the same time strengthening the funding of instruments that contribute to the commercialisation of good ideas, such as FORNY and the nationwide establishment grant scheme in Innovation Norway. All of this means that we will be stronger rusted to meet the future. This means that we can increase the emergence of new and knowledge-based businesses and more good entrepreneurs, and that is what we need to ensure our well-being in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1604	Next week, the furry animal selection will present its report. The left is pleased that part of the budgetary agreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and us is an agreement that the government should assess the closure of fur animal nutrition in the follow-up to that selection. That is, as far as I know, the first time the Storting has asked a government to evaluate it. Moreover, as far as I can read and count myself to, there are already 72 representatives in this room who are ready to go in for a controlled closure of the industry. That's the good reason. Tuesday this week, the NRK showed a document on the feeding of fur animals, in which both unacceptable animal husbandry and animal husbandry conditions were detected that are totally unacceptable. However, the problem is not the individual pawn. I know that many fur farmers are happy in their animals and want animal welfare to be as possible. The problem is that commercial fur production and good animal welfare simply don't seem to combine. This has long told us both the Veterinary Institute and the Norwegian Veterinary Association. Animal husbandry is, of course, imperative, whatever the purpose, but there is something fundamental that distinguishes fur production from other animal husbandry, first that food production is absolutely necessary – as opposed to the production of animal fashion products – and, secondly, that traditional domestic animals are largely flock animals, herbivores and genetically adapted to human life over thousands of years. Fur animals, on the other hand, are wild animals. Even after just under 90 years of breeding, the vast majority of foxes and minks on the tests, whether they are domesticated or not, are deleted from the University of Environment and Life Sciences. These are predators who need to hunt and strip and are generally adapted to a completely different life than a small cage can offer. The argument for continuing to grow fur seems essentially to be that this is a so-called important district industry. That is not the case. In total there are 273 fur farmers in all of Norway. They're not on their own, but they're supported by an average of 150 000 taxpayers in subsidies. More than half of the production takes place in our most central strokes. Someone uses this room to warn against what is known as industrial agriculture. We generally have little of that in Norway, but I can hardly think of anything more industrial than Norwegian fur farming: thousands of animals on the garden, which become gassed and skinned on bonding – without any significance for either cultural landscape, biological deficiency or self-sufficiency. 98 pst. production is exported unprocessed, mainly to new Chinese and Russians without, in my view, sufficient awareness of animal ethics. May 2015 become the year when this hall finally says that enough is enough!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1621	The industry in the South has long pointed out that they are missing a part of the innovation system. Much investment is made in research and development, but they lack facilities to test the research results of enterprises. This testing is essential for value creation and commercialisation out of research. Market and public authorities require evidence that equipment and new solutions are working and can be operated safely. Today, businesses have to leave the country to test their innovation. This weakens the basis of competence, and there is a risk that development competence will move out. A Joint Liaison Committee has noted that the industrial clusters in the South are cooperating on the establishment of the Mechatronic Innovation Lab, a centre for the development, testing, piloting and market qualification of new and innovative technological solutions. An overall committee agrees that the establishment of test and demonstration facilities is an important instrument for stimulating growth. Initiatives are important to strengthen value creation, increase adaptability and provide SMEs with access to pilot test facilities to further develop new business opportunities, including: in renewable energy, based on the mechatronic competence, where the University of Agder has a leading position. The Committee points out that this laboratory is a joint arena for research, innovation, development and education and is a high priority action in the region. Mechatronic Innovation Lab will help meet industry’s needs for advanced laboratory facilities and will strengthen cooperation with leading research environments both in Agder and at other universities in Norway, as well as internationally. It is gratifying that a Joint Committee sees the importance of this project and will continue to work to realise the Mechatronic Innovation Lab.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1634	The next speaker was to be Per Olaf Lundtigen – who is not in the room. Then it was the representative Heidi Nordby Lunde – who is not to be seen either. The president's on the list. The representative, Mr Kjell-Idar Juvik, is present and has the floor. The representative of Nordby Lunde will have the floor after Juvik. Here you go, Juvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1639	The government also cuts next year the allocation to the county councils’ work on regional development. We all remember well what happened in this year's budget, with the cuts in regional development funds of 430 million. kr. For my home country, this was $66 million. kr less. We – everyone, I hope – also remember very well the municipal budget that was adopted on Tuesday here in the hall, and what kind of profile it has. We actually see a trend, which I hope is not right, towards a negative district profile from today's government. The proposal for the next year for the reorganization of Innovation Norway will affect the districts. Innovation Norway is not just going to distribute capital, it is an important co-player for local business, and it is not least they are an important co-player to have a short way to the first-line services in the municipalities. I myself have been sitting as rapporteur, and it is incredibly important to have that link close and locally. At least what could have been expected was that at least waiting for the Stortinget to be presented with a comprehensive plan for Innovation Norway. The Labour Party has proposed this, but you don't want to spend time on it. The Labour Party will continue to have agriculture throughout the country in the future. I am not as sure that today's government wants this. With the agricultural settlement fresh in memory, I'm worried when I see next year's budget. It is correct that it came into port, and that there was a better settlement after conciliation with today's partners, the Left and Christian People's Party, but the Workers' Party is very clear that we believe that we did not go far enough to strengthen food production across the country. This is why the Workers' Party will once again increase the appropriations to strengthen the profitability of agriculture throughout the country. I notice that the government has initiated a privatisation process in Statskog. This is very serious and a very unfortunate time. In Helgeland, Statskog is a major landowner, and now a large-scale survey of forest and land sales is being carried out, while in the middle of a process of managing the land. This seems hasty and overrun by local authorities. Today, it's not equal to the management of our outfield. We have the mountain law south of Nordland, and we have the Finnmarks Act north of South Troms. In my region, Northland, and in South Troms, it is State Forest that is managed. There was a process going on, the Joint Court Committee II, to look at this. It's in a drawer, and I wonder when it's going to be developed so that you get a similar practice across the country. I finally recommend the Stortinget to support the Workers' Party's proposal to stop: ‘it notified the privatisation process of State Forest, including the work in progress in State Forest to carry out the privatisation of the forest business.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1660	I have heard in the debate today that a distinction has now been made between red-green and blue-blue industrial policies, or active and passive policies, as it has also been called. However, all countries have some form of active industrial policy, either through government governance and intervention, ranging from laws and regulations to infrastructure construction, the organisation of public services, the way tax policy is designed, the way in which the state uses its purchasing power, or whether there are specific arrangements for special interests in one or more areas. As a rule, the State has – and should – strategic interests in which state activities and instruments play a special role, such as: as owner or regulator. But the disparity that is placed in the rhetoric of this hall about the extent to which the Norwegian state is actually involved, active and participating, is most likely to devalue the credibility of politicians in business policy. The red-green government probably had the largest economic space Norway has ever had and will have. This was due to the high level of demand in the petroleum industry, including during the financial crisis. In this unique position for the transformation from an oil-based economy to creating sustainable, balanced and creative welfare societies, the red-green government managed to make Norway more oil dependent. At the same time, we have never before had such a sharp deterioration in competitiveness. Was it a result of active industrial policy? In the last year of the government of the red-greens, it was invested for 200 billion. kr in the oil sector, while it was invested for around 20 billion. kr in mainland Norway. Was it the result of an active industrial policy? Is it active business policy to weaken the risk capital market by capping investors, business owners and property tax entrepreneurs? Politicians can then use this on new accelerator programmes and additional appropriations to act themselves. But I think that is a rather arrogant form of active industrial policy. What nutrition socialists forget is that when you bottle people who have already shown that they have both competence, tetanus and commitment to creating jobs, we also lose the skills they use when they invest. That competence could have helped more businesses through what is called the valley of death. Instead, SSB statistics show that after eight years of active red-green industrial policy, only three out of ten companies survive the first five years of operation in Norway. What Norway needs is less so-called active enterprise policy, but business policy – more focus on the prerequisites for economic activity, such as historical transport investment, a growth-enhancing tax policy, school and education that puts knowledge first, more focus on research and development, but perhaps most importantly of all politicians who do not believe that there is a future job created in this room, but facilitates the wise minds, the burning hearts and the creative hands that actually do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1676	Some comments on the debate – first to Innst. 96 S. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Workers' Party and the Centre are not behind the allocation of Chapter 2421, item 70, i.e. the proposal to grant 43.5 million. NOK to cancel employees in Innovation Norway. It has been a little strange in the debate today to hear how boundlessly the representatives of the government parties are of what has happened in the last eight years, how very concerned they are to talk about what the Christian People's Party and the Left have done on the Storting, and how little interest they are in talking about that government actually appeared. For one, it must be assumed that the whole policy of the Right and the Advance Party is what the government has put forward. I have wondered: why does the Government cut the Copernicus programme, why does it cut support for the self-governing industry, and why does it cut agricultural research? But I have heard the debate today, and I think the most clarifying article was the introduction to the Minister of Industry, when she described her – and probably also the government’s – view of various narrow programmes. Was it this fate Copernicus also entered? For space travel is narrow and narrow in Norway, but that does not mean that it is not important for that reason. We've discussed and been very much involved in the bioeconomy strategy. I think it's strange when all the parties in this room seem to say that it's a good idea that we're going to put forward a bio-economic strategy, can't stand behind it together and vote for it in the hall. So here there must be a difference of opinion outside and going as the debate today has not come forward. For agricultural policy: the representative Foss is very busy talking about everything that was bad and difficult under the red-green. I think it is a false description of reality, and I would like to remind you that the current government's agricultural policy is starting to apply from 1 January 2015, as the agricultural sector is entering. My advice to the government parties is to look forward and look at what you want to do in the future. Then we can have a seminar on the state of the eight years under red-green rule – we're going to ask questions and discuss it – but I don't think it's appropriate to use the big room that much for it. So I encourage the Council of State to read the setting, where it says the'majority', because that's what the view of the Greatness is, you should notice. Finally, a comment on the post of the representative Rotevatn, who held a flaming inlay for fur animals. It is worth noting that the same Left has secured a majority with the government to double the concession limits on chicken – so consistent in its policy is rather the Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1695	In 2011, the government reduced the Sørlandsomektionet, which delivered its suspension in 2013. The main priorities of this sample's setting up were the establishment of the Mechatronic Innovation Lab, a centre for the development, testing, prioritisation and promotion of innovative technological solutions, which is a shortage here in the country. It was therefore disappointing that the government did not find, by means of the budget agreement, to fit in with a start-up grant. Although the majority today do not support our proposal for a start-up grant of 5 million. kr, and that one should come back to the matter in the revised form, however, it gives hope that this can be done, in the light of the clear observations of an overall committee, which, in its setting, underlines the importance of getting the lab in place. After hearing the contribution from the representative Ingunn Foss from the Right today, I actually expect the government to solve this in the context of the revised national budget, as we propose. I was in my post saying that the Workers' Party is concerned with the conditions of the industry. One measure that I did not have the right to come up with is our It is a contribution from the Norwegian industry to the development of a strategy for the process industry towards the low-carbon society. The process industry is an important piece in the Norwegian land-based industry and is world leader today. If we're going to continue with this, it's important that we support such a strategy. Mineral industry is an important industry with a high potential for further development. In 2010, the government of Stoltenberg introduced a new mineral law that replaced five other laws. This law was an important step in simplifying legislation in the field of minerals and in creating transparent and predictable framework conditions for the mineral industry. The law was followed up by a mineral strategy in 2013 as a good basis for joint work further. The Labour Party is concerned that the new government is following the strategy and is pleased that the Foreign Minister in the Question Time on 19 November underlined the following: ‘Most descriptions and measures in the strategy for the mineral industry, as promoted by the former Council of State, are broad political consensus.’ The working party assumes that the government is acting in this way and is following up this mineral strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1714	I now have an important message for my good red-green friends Storberget, Omland, Pollestad and others, regarding the comment that you have made in your speeches on business neutrality versus active business policy. Too much is being put into it in relation to the Christian People's Party. It is such that this note is under Innovation Norway, and it was important for the Christian People's Party to go into that note. The Christian People's Party does not say that the government does not have an active industrial policy on a general basis, because we do not believe that. This note is related to the cut-off in industry-specific programmes under Innovation Norway. That such a cut can be a step on the way to more business neutrality is also not very controversial. But that is what we are talking about here and not the government's policy on a general basis. There is a majority comment in the position that I also think it is worth paying attention to, and it goes on that the majority asks for an eco-strategy to be drawn up. This room has set a measure of that 20 pst. food production shall be from organic farming. So we know that if we're going to get there and achieve this goal, we might need to have a strategy in place. It is an important step that the government is asked to take. I am also very pleased with the answer given by State Council Listhaug to the reply she got from Storberget on bioeconomy, where she says yes, a note will be followed up by the government. It is good, it is good on this note, and it is good that majority comments should be followed up. That's how we can have a political interaction between a minority government and a political majority in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1725	It was a nice and nice clarification from the representative Line Henriette Hemdal from the Christian People's Party when it came to tooling. There has been some criticism in this Chamber today when it comes to these nationwide programmes versus industry-specific programmes, and this with marine value creation programmes was also commented on. But this government chooses to evaluate if it's spent money on, has had an effect. In this evaluation, there are also good feedback programs that will be working on finding good solutions. This applies in particular to a programme that has been a competence programme on the NHH and a training scheme. Geir Pollestad says we're most concerned about what the red-greens did the eight years they didn't get for anything. I think it's quite natural that we look at what policies have worked, and what has not actually worked. When it did not work under the red-green, it is not so strange that there is a need to evaluate the measures in the instrument and adjust them as you expect better results. I understand that both from the Labour Party and the Central Party rhetoric have a tendency to allow a lot of good money for many good purposes without necessarily measuring the effect of what is spent on. Furthermore, I am busy with bioeconomy, as several have also mentioned. I've been working as a narrator before, and I have to be allowed to tell a little story from that time. In the West we have Mongstad with large CO2 emissions, and there we wanted to set up an artificial algae production project to use CO2 to produce and grow artificial algae that would go into the production of fish feed. That was the point. We met with Lisbeth Berg-Hansen several times, but nothing ever came out of this. But already in the revised budget this summer, the funding for this was in place, and we have great expectations that we will get knowledge of this project. So the government is very much on, as I experience it, when it's on what it has to do with bioeconomy. I also expect that we will continue to work on this both here in Stortinget and in the government. It's very important and very exciting to do this. Business policy is not just about tools, it is also about research. Within the marine research, the budget has been strengthened by over 100 million. kr since the new government joined after the government change. I mean, it's nutrition research we're doing, and it's good business policy that comes out of that research.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1742	I come from a state where the marine and marine industries are strong, and where we have gradually built up a large petroleum-based activity with two landing facilities and a comprehensive supplier industry. What's interesting to see is how these industries grow, develop and create strong clusters of nutrients – clusters of nutrients that are largely built on local competence and capital. It's not like these clusters can grow anywhere. The maritime and marine industries in the North-West are the result of long maritime and fisheries traditions that are unique to our territory. Local entrepreneurs and businesses are able to change and adapt to changing environments, which have laid stones in family companies and built up profitable and solid jobs. So it's the combination of local owners, competences, skilled employees and great ability to change and innovation that has made these clusters grow right in our area. When I travel around and visit these companies, there are several things they point to that are important for the region and for the company in order for them to continue to maintain their position and develop further. The first thing to mention is transportation, then a little bit more transportation, and then they mention the property tax. There is therefore a reason why the government prioritises these areas in its budget. Then I register that the Storberget in the reply card exchange earlier today was not satisfied with the government's investment in infrastructure. This is a strange conclusion all the time when there is a historically high budget for society. Where the maintenance shift increased for each year under the red-green majority rule, in 2015 we will reverse this trend and for the first time in several decades reduce the decay both by highway and by rail. In addition, we are increasing the rate of investment and implementing major reforms in the field of transport, which will mean a reduction in planning time and more efficient development. These are reforms that should have been carried out a long time ago, but which the red-greens chose to leave in the drawer. Now it's done. In Herøy Municipality, they have started using a new concept: «patriot capital». Capital is created in enterprises with local competence and local owners who understand that part of the benefits they create locally should also belong to the community. It's good for the company, and it's good for the community. In the red-green world, it's okay that many of the local-owned companies actually have to drain their equity to pay the strange wealth tax, while the neighboring company, which is foreign owned, is dropping. Where's the logic? Why do the Labour Party and the representative Botten want to discriminate against Norwegian local companies? I am still happy to receive feedback from the companies that they want increased regional development funds managed by the county council. The companies I've visited ask us to remove the discriminatory property tax and invest more in infrastructure, and that's exactly what we're doing well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1759	Tourism and travel are the fastest growing industry in the world today. The representative of Korsberg indicated that there had been a good growth within the travel life of this season, and this joyous rise of increased tourism in Norway was rewarded with a cut in the rise of 40 million. the government's budget proposal. In fact, Innovation Norway asked for 50 million. kr more for the marketing of Norwegian travel lives, but instead received a cut of 40 million. kr and back to 2006 level – this was in spite of the fact that all operators in high-ranking travel teams reported the importance of the marketing line. The cut was referred to as the fairy tale in the Achilles of Norwegian travel life. The left also recognized here instead that this cut was what pained the most to be on. The ground is open. Norway's desperate biggest travel challenge is that we're too little known as travel destinations. Government Medicine: Use less! By cutting a considerable amount of responsibility is transferred to the destination companies and the individual travel company in order to carry out what has been a national task until now. There is not much help to get for the destination companies during today's government. Regional development funds are about gone. Here I would like to mention that these funds were crucial to put in place the Arctic Race of Norway, which markets Norway in a way from now on, directly on the television route to about 180 countries. The proposal to increase the turnover limit for VAT was considered historical. The Minister of Economic Affairs was given a chance here to become historical. It was referred to as the most entrepreneurial proposal of any government ever. Fortunately, the Left and Christian People's Party dampen this. Finally, I note that the ministers and most of the representatives of the government party who speak today are more enthusiastic about the budgetary conciliation than about their own policies. It should be a cross of thought. In addition, the people were not overly enthusiastic about a budget proposal that took from those who had the least, and gave to those who had the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1774	It has been mentioned both by the representative of Ingrid Heggø and Geir Pollestad that this government is putting down the self-afraid stone and liquidating it. Firstly, we do not put down the self-afraid and liquidate it; we remove the support to self-afraid. So the question is, why do we do that? Then I have to show that the EU was previously the largest market for cell products, but as a result of the EU's ban on sales from 2010, all exports have stopped. When was it adopted in the EU? It was adopted in 2009. Who, then, was the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs? It was Helga Pedersen. So it was on the Labour Party's guard that the self-anxiety was effectively eliminated. At the time, Helga Pedersen had to stand in school right here in Stortinget and explain why the government hadn't done anything. It was not just criticism from the opposition parties at that time on the Stortinget, but it was also a criticism from the EU itself because the government had not been there. I just have to refer to the question I had on March 11, 2009. If you go in there, you will also see the named politicians in the EU system who at the time criticised the Norwegian government. What we're doing now is really taking the consequences of the lack of policy that the previous government led. I understand that Geir Pollestad and other representatives don't like that we talk about what happened under the red-green government, but we actually have to point out what happened that time, and the consequences it has this time. Our second market for cell products is Asia and China. Everyone knows the relationship Norway has with China today. It's quite strenuous, and it's a market it's not easy to get into. I'm not going to blame the previous government for that. But the EU was the most important market, and it disappeared under the previous government. The worst thing about it was that the previous government didn't do anything for the self-employed, and then we're going to get criticism for taking the consequences of it and having to stop the transfers. I think that's unreasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1783	I've read the nostalgic. It seems that some of the representatives of the government parties have not done so. At the very least, it says: ‘The oil activity will no longer be the engine of our economic growth. And we have to adapt to the Earth's carbon emissions." It's first, so I can show it. It must be of all things, the most important thing that the government has on its heart. I fully agree with the sentences that stand there, but it's hard to find any trace of this in what the government actually does. This is also why SV has been so critical of the large cuts that have now been made, among other things. in the development of one of the industries which could contribute much more to the green shift, namely the forest industry. Large cuts have been made, both on value creation measures in forestry — in several items — and on increased industrial use of wood. This is how you can sell your timber now, you can sell it to Sweden. They're driving business development on our raw material. We need to get this replaced, also on three. In SV, we have also invested in other green industries, such as sea wind, solar cells, battery ferries, etc., which we know will be important for our supplier industry today, serving the oil and gas sector, but which needs other markets that can produce energy in a climate-friendly way, while also providing jobs. That's why we choose to give priority to spending money on it. But we also need to get this changed in the forest industry. It doesn't seem like the government's going to do it at all, but it keeps on investing in property taxes, as the OECD is saying is wrong, you're creating less of this. The countries that increase the differences between people create less. Thus, it is estimated that business neutrality, which has not been the method when Norway has developed other industries. When Norway has developed other industries and got them up and in competition, it has been specifically put on it. That is why specific efforts must be made now, including: for the forestry industry and for the industrial use of wood in both products and production. If we are to achieve this, we – because Norway is a small country – need to cooperate between the authorities and industry, and not so that governments cut research and innovation funds into the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1797	Internationally, we are now experiencing several dangerous security crises. This comes at the top of a financial crisis, which, for many EU countries, quickly became a sovereign debt crisis, which is now becoming a serious social and political crisis, not least in southern Europe. Recession threatens. This is incredibly important for Norwegian business. Europeans are looking for new political parties, as has happened in the early 1900s. Economic union without political union does not function properly. The United States and the EU have long seen the need for a better balance between production and consumption within their territory. They see the back of globalisation. Not least they have seen the need to become less dependent on oil and gas imports. Both the US and Germany have invested enormously in shale gas and electricity from solar and wind power respectively. It has given great, positive results for their economy. The United States and the EU now see the need to become less dependent on Chinese production. The negotiations on the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, the so-called TTIP Agreement, are thus geopolitics. Furthermore, the UN Climate Panel, with the world’s leading researchers, including, inter alia, our experts at the Bergen Mountain Centre have now scientifically demonstrated, with open, verifiable sources, that climate change is more scientifically proven to be anthropogenic than cigarette smoking is a health hazard. This must have the consequence that black carbon must be replaced by both renewable energy and green carbon from marine and terrestrial photosynthesis. In this situation, Norway has developed a highly oil-dependent economy, which has provided an extremely high cost level. This has also led to an excessive export of raw materials, for example. fish, timber and hydropower. So we are facing major changes in Norwegian business. We need a strong increase in the profitability of the production and processing of renewable natural resources. That's the core of the green economy. Good youth must make money in this business. For many, the bioeconomy is a new word, but the core is that it is the economy of biological production – a production life based on what nature gives through photosynthesis, the green carbon. Now we have to ask the question: what do we want with Norway? We have the natural resources, we have the money. Norway without shipping is not Norway; Norway without fish processing is not Norway; Norway without wood processing is not Norway. Then we have to use powerful economic instruments while we still have the economic power to change. It should have started a long time ago, but now we have to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1808	Finally, it was a red-green politician who lifted his eyes. It was almost liberating, because it hasn't been much of that far. And it was also a powerful sentence on the former red-green government – it was probably the most powerful to date. The sitting government spends the big money on the big challenges. We spend a lot of time on transportation, on research and development, on competence, on everything that can build Norway for the future. So we do not hear that as an active enterprise policy. I think that’s great to hear – that representatives from the Red-Greens say that there is no active business policy. I very much agree with the State Council of Malta that it is actually an active and positive industrial policy. You can ask any travel company. It's not Innovation Norway that's the most important thing for tourism companies, it's actually that tourists come out and find the hotel again. I think you can ask any business in Norway. Regional development funds are not the first to be sought; they are transport investments. The next thing is you want to keep more of the equity in your own company to develop the company. Here we have stood and heard that a red-green politician after a red-green politician believes that politicians are best to pick out future winners. Well, actually, I don't think so. I think business is the best way to pick out future winners. Here, there is a very clear distinction between what you have faith in, who you think is able to figure out how Norway solves this and find the food routes we're going to live on in the future. That distinction I think is very good. I heard the representative of Storberget say that Hedmark and Oppland would take very little advantage of the changes in property taxes, a reduction in property taxes. I mean the opposite. We lack local ownership in Hedmark. We have to start getting it out, if we're going to get businesses growing. We're a resourceful state, but two generations of the Workers' Party have probably scared most of them away. So to a small explanation of vote, or actually a request to the Left, for the Left's proposal No. 14 is interesting. We have discussed it a great deal, but as far as the proposal is concerned, it is outside the Committee's scope, simply because the pre-seed fund requires more resources than the Committee has available. I would ask the Left to turn it into a transmission proposal, so that this will be assessed in the light of future budgetary procedures. We welcome a pre-seed scheme, but we want the risk capital of the seed fund scheme and what we agreed on in the budget agreement to come out completely into the market and not be limited by the fact that we have to make much larger loss provisions into a pre-seed fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1821	Just a brief comment on Odd Omland's posts. We were very many who were very disappointed by the then Minister of Economic Affairs Trond Giske, who presented the South African Committee's suspension and the need for test facilities without a single penny. If the Workers' Party really wanted to bet on this, it might be 5 million. kr at least.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1826	I want to talk about and for entrepreneurs, because we need more entrepreneurs. We must then have good framework conditions, so that we can preserve our competitive advantage, and then we must create a business that is both resilient and innovative, knowledge-based and adaptable – a culture in which we are allowed to try, but also to fail. We need to work even more to get more women to establish their own business, and we need to invest even more in entrepreneurship in the school. It's one of the most important things we can do to create a culture of entrepreneurship. Earlier in the debate, the representative Rytman said that this was the best budget for entrepreneurs ever. Then he talked in the rest of his article about the property tax. So I thought, was it that very good for entrepreneurs? I'm calling a common acquaintance of us, who is a serial founder and very busy with this. What is the most important thing for a founder in laying the budget today? He said, "It's that entrepreneurs have to be allowed to work with what they can." We need to put in an extra billing so that they can access capital, and they don't spend a whole year sitting and writing applications, etc. Too short to sum up: access to capital and simplification — that was the most important thing. In fact, the property tax was not mentioned. Just so it's said, there's a lot of entrepreneurs who have a long way to go before they get into a property position. Long before that, they need capital and maybe simplification of the rules. When it comes to simplification, those who are now in government were very tall and dark for eight years, and they were talking about simplification. Me he some of them. We got rid of the audit obligations for small companies in the previous period, which I'm very pleased with, and I think most of them are. But what's happening now? What is it that we're getting now? First, a rule board should be created, one should be set to 7 million. kr to put down a council – even more bureaucracy. I have never met a founder who says: I am so excited about a rule board. No, they want direct simplification, that's what the founders say to me. I would like and expect the Minister to come up with some proper simplification measures, including measures for better access to capital for entrepreneurs. That is why I am very pleased with the accrastator programme proposed by the Labour Party. If they don't talk about it today – because I have to evaluate it – we can discuss it, and then we could take a real effort to get more entrepreneurs in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1833	Else-May Botten has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1837	I would like to sum up quickly that the government parties have actually been clear that they are going on the industry-neutral line all the way in the debate today. It's interesting to hear Right criticise the discriminating part of the property tax. I'm going to get involved in that. I want to remind the representative Helge Orten that the Right is in government. If you're busy doing something about the discriminating part of the property tax, then why don't you do it? This is the opportunity to do it! However, in order to make it easy, you just take and kisses without knowing what is the best targeted action you should take on fiscal policy in the future. It should have been discussed and lifted now, after we discussed it, and after we got the report from the Scheel Committee, and made a broad deal about that device. It looks like we're dealing with business neutrality. Then I think that the property tax we have to take a spin on, but then you should at least do it in your own house, in government, first.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1842	The representative of Ove Trellevik has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1845	Just a short comment on Ingrid Heggø and others who have discussed the cut in the travel effort. That's right, we cut a year ago. When there is growth in tourism in Norway despite the introduction of cutbacks, we can wonder if these tools have had the effect that one wanted. The government is working on a value-added analysis of travel and will come back to how we can target the use of resources and tools in tourism in a much better and more targeted way in the future. We don't want this to happen, but it has to be more targeted, and one has to take time to evaluate the drug use – if it's right. The Labour Party never did, never did.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1852	I noticed that Gunnar Gunnersen's representative asked us to raise our eyes and accuse the red-greens of not having done so in this debate. I really feel like it's the opposite. In the debate in the course of the day, in particular from the representative of Gundersen, we have heard largely arguments about how terrible the eight red-green years were and how bad that policy was. According to my concepts, it's the opposite of lifting your eyes. If we're going to raise our eyes, it's going to have to be to look forward. We disagree about the description of the eight red-green years, we are, but if you want to raise your eyes, you might want to do it in the fields that include: was described in the keynote address by the government – that we need other legs to stand on when we see the growth of the oil economy slowing down. And that's what the red-greens have done, through suggestions and comments. During this debate, it has gone so far that a majority of the parties in the Storting have stated that one of the most important means of raising their eyes is to establish a bioeconomy strategy. I am pleased to register – I think it is positive – that the Council of State, Listhaug, says that she should follow it up. But then it's amazing that those who show the most clearly that one should raise their eyes and lift it, the representative Gundersen and his colleagues in the Right and also in the Progress Party here in the House, in fact both in the note and in the proposal that is on the table, choose to be out of it. Is it that there is only someone who is going to look forward to the future, or are you interested in being part of this? I must also be allowed to say the same about all the other measures, especially those relating to the use of forest as a new resource. There are many of the same tools that Gunnar Gundersen and many others accused the red-greens of providing too little by and too late when it came. Now, the Council of State proposes to have a significantly greater commitment to the infrastructure of forestry, research and development, and not least to the fiscal approach of several of us who have been on the platform today. There are instruments that the representative Gundersen was very concerned about when he was in opposition, and as I believe we have been given very little explanation as to why you are not now involved. Why isn't it lifting your eyes anymore? What has happened to this type of action? What's happened to that kind of effort? I would have liked, once the Council of State has been clear about following up the bio-economic strategy, that an overall increase, including the Right and the Advance Party, voted in favour of the proposals, particularly those relating to the bio-economy and the bio-economic strategy, which have been said by the House and the Council of State to follow up. Everything else, in my opinion, is the opposite of lifting your eyes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1859	The representative Ingrid Heggø has spoken twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1862	It was quite unlikely to hear the representative Korsberg blame the Labour Party for shutting down the industry in 2009! The industry is not dead. They are investing in new products, in new markets. It was made quite clear during the budget hearing of the nutrition committee. For example, the Director of the Fishing Boat said: self-sufficiency requires more time to convert. The Fiskarlag was also busy with this. In addition, they warn against the ecological consequences of cutting self-afraid. The consequences of own policies may be painful. It should be taken over by the representative of Korsberg. To remove support for self-afraid, as the government does in this draft budget, is to shut down the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1869	I'm not going to say that I'm not going to extend the debate, because I do, as I have asked for the floor for a 3 minute post. However, I would like to comment on some of the recordings that have been made, including: by the representative of Gundersen, who says that instead of having a targeted industrial policy, we will let them win, the winners – that is, support the winners. Yes, that's what we think we're doing when we're betting on a very strong marine sector in Norway. In this way, it contributes to the strengthening of good, performance-oriented, successful enterprises in Norway. That's what the state should be – a support player. It's supposed to be in the maritime field, it's going to be in the forest, and now we need special things related to the supplier industry, which is in a low economic cycle. That's how we think about business policy. No, we're told to raise our eyes. Productivity is important. Yes, there is no disagreement about that. It is wrong that productivity in Norway has fallen. There has been productivity growth in Norway all along, but we are for all measures that can boost productivity growth. I would recommend the representative of Gundersen to look into the report of the Holden III Committee, which shows the fact that in the development of value creation in Norway, the ratio between the proportion of value creation that goes to wages and the proportion that goes to return on capital has been quite stable over very many years. We believe that to be healthy for Norwegian society. Something else that's a big policy is transportation. When we haven't discussed it, it's because there's essentially agreement on the budget for transport. It's actually about the national transport plan that we provided, which is now being implemented. There is no disagreement that transport is important. That's why we put extra effort into it within forests, for example. Nor is there any disagreement that research, especially nutrient research, and education are important. There's a consensus about that. But what is at issue is one of the concrete business policies. The only thing that has been said here from those who think big, i.e. those who are opposed to concrete measures in industrial policy and only on general matters, and who separate the government from the opposition, is the wealth tax. However, in the case of taxes on wealth, it has been demonstrated by economists that it has no dynamic effect on the development of business. There is no taxes on production either – it is a personal tax, and the cut benefits a few rich ones. If it doesn't keep us saying that, and that Norwegian economists say it, then maybe the government parties could at least believe in the OECD, which is not exactly the stronghold of socialism in Europe, which is now pointing to the very fact that small differences in society are contributing to value creation. That's the Norwegian model. Now it is also documented from abroad that it is a reality that small differences result in good productivity development. What this government is doing through the state budget is increasing the differences. Therefore, it is not unnatural that there is some disagreement about industrial policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1888	When the representative Botten asks how our policy will address the conversion needs of Norwegian business, it must be because she does not understand what I am saying, and most likely does not understand the arrangement of our business policy. That's probably why she also dares to refer to it as neutral. There's no knowledge of it. But I'll make an attempt to inform you. When we say that the need for a rate of change is high, and we are increasing tax incentives – i.e., tax incentives use to increase migration programmes, increase research in business – there is one way to increase the rate of change. So as we increase the tax FUNN framework, the business community is researching more, innovating more, and we're better equipped to take the transition that's coming. We're using programs like the BIA – The User-Controlled Innovation Arena – and we're lifting them. Businesses see their needs, they know the market, they can ally with other actors. That's how we're going to make it possible for us to be able to adapt, for us to have innovation, and for us to be able to move skills and resources from one sector to another. That's how we move, how our clusters survive, and how our business survives and promises. It's an active business policy as good as anyone else we've been presented in this room, let's be clear. Everything else is flakes. Then I have to comment on something. It is said that we should not go back in time – we should not look back. It can be convenient sometimes. From Juvik we heard about Statskog's harmful sale. So it was adopted in the previous period. State forest was given a decision in this room to sell 600 000 targets. So sometimes we must at least be allowed to look back. In conclusion, I would like to take a look at that with strategies. It is highlighted that Trond Giske promoted a mineral strategy that had broad support in the Storting. It's wrong - it's completely wrong. Trond Giske even explicitly stated that that strategy was not going to the Stortinget. It was supposed to be the government's strategy. I was in many debates with Giske on this: it should be the government's strategy. Sometimes it's actually a little bit of the problem. We forget what a strategy is. A strategy is the government's work tool. To anchor things in the Storting is done in other ways. We asked Trond Giske to do that, and there is every reason to ask the sitting government, too, to do that – come to the Stortinget, anchor the policy, so that you have a broad majority behind you and it can stand for a long time. But a strategy is not necessarily the right tool for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1899	The representative, Gundersen, called for an instant split. It is popular among several workers' party representatives, and therefore I had to take the floor. If you are interested in raising your eyes, you can look at what is Norway’s biggest competitive advantage. It's natural resources – it is – but it's also the trust we have in our society. This trust can be measured in different ways, including: in that we trust those we don't know from before. That makes us, for example, is best at employee-driven innovation, it makes us find new solutions in place, and it makes us happy to succeed. Where does that trust come from? How do you get that trust? We get it if we have a society where we're all going to succeed, where we have ambitions on behalf of all people, where the inequality is small. Combating large and growing differences is essential for strong and sustainable growth, I agree. But that's not my statement, it's Secretary General Angel Gurria, from the OECD, his statement when he presented the new report in London this week. We have to limit the inequality, not because it's fairer, not because it's the only guide you can set up the policy after if you have ambitions on behalf of all people, but because that's all we can do to secure growth in the country. Economic inequality has reduced economic growth in Norway by 9pst, and it is increasing. I would like the Minister of Industry to comment on the government's policy to combat inequalities. This is something that directly interferes with industrial policy. Often when this is discussed, the wealth tax is mentioned. It's okay that Christmas is the time of miracles, but when it comes to politics, I think maybe we should keep it outside. The dynamic effect of taxes on wealth has been questioned several times. I can refer again to the OECD when they talk about this. They say, ‘TO focus only on growth and calculate that the effect of growth will automatically ‘slope down’ to the different layers of the population can undermine growth in the long term, because the inequalities in reality are increasing’. This is very serious, not only for the trust between people, but also for the growth in our country. I would like a comment from the Minister of Industry on the government's policy, which increases the differences between people, does not diminish them, and is about to go at the expense of the growth we all want in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1917	What's happening around us now, we can't understand without lifting our eyes. We are, of course, totally dependent on what is happening in the United States and in the EU. It is essential to understand the changes that are taking place there and the major geopolitical decisions that are being taken. The development we have had in Norway, where we have gone towards commodity sales, is only unwise. Raw materials sales and military power cannot be built on a country, it is said by major political leaders, and that is now the case. That's why I'm glad we've now lifted our eyes. Then the representative says Gundersen that what I'm saying is a strong sentence on the red-green government. Then I'll say, what's up? Who's going free? We have a common responsibility for this, not least the Right has a great responsibility. The right has been for any measure that has increased oil dependence. They have sought more financial incentives for oil dependence, seas with a lack of capacity in the supplier industry. We have had an annual cost growth in the oil and gas sector of 25 pst. per year of the 2000s. There has been a cost increase that has been enormously damaging to the whole level of costs in Norway, and the Right Party has been one of the foremost to push forward increased investment in industries where one did not have sufficient capacity, giving the cost growth. So I ask the representatives from the Right to be a little bit more humble at this point. There are several people who should take maritime criticism in relation to what has happened. Political leaders have thought too briefly, in my opinion. Then the representative says Gundersen that political leaders shouldn't pick out future winners. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Every leader has to think strategically about industries that we have the prerequisites for doing well. It's talking about bioeconomy, and it's talking about green industries. Yes, we do, but then we have to get profitability. And when the representative, Gundersen, cannot even vote for the Workers' Party and the Senter Party's proposal to develop a bioeconomy strategy, ‘promoting overall and concrete measures to strengthen the bioeconomy by 2015’, it is a result of the litmus test. There's a lot of talk, but one isn't even willing to go into the necessary common sense of reality and development in an area that you know very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1928	I really didn't intend to extend the debate, but I can't avoid commenting on Gunvor Eldegard's attack on my post. She was doubtful that this was the best budget ever for entrepreneurs in Norway, after she had talked to one founder and he had no problems with the property tax. I don't know if she went out under my post, but I doubt that she heard my entire post. My whole focus was on – at least I tried – just access to risk capital, that there are several ways to get risk capital, from the public, of course, but also from the private, and why there are so few private Norwegian investors, but also foreign investors. However, it is possible only to contact the business organisations, the Business Association, the NHO and others and to hear what they think about this budget compared to what it was like under the Red-Green Government. Then you might get another answer. Then, of course, you have to look not only at risk capital, but also at everything else that benefits business – the huge investment in transport, the huge reduction in taxes and taxes – which obviously has something to say about competitiveness in relation to other countries. Otherwise, she referred — in addition to the need for risk capital — to the fact that when it came to focusing on simplification, it was a huge form field; only applying for money from Innovation Norway took a year. But that's what it's been for years, and of course we're going to do something about it -- it focuses this government on. Without mentioning any name, I can take a small test in the assembly here – if someone knows what one of the fastest growing companies in the Drammen is doing. Well, they help entrepreneurs get risk capital, just by helping them with the form field. Well, that's a little bit of a statement. I would like to join the representative, Gunvor Eldegard, at any time, and compare – point by point – the budget that we are now going to adopt with all the budgets in the last few years. Then we can see who wins. Otherwise, I would like to remind you that the Stortinget has adopted a number of representative proposals that are aimed at strengthening the rights and framework conditions of self-employed workers – well-helped by the Left – including allowing «micro AS». I have great faith that 2015 will be a very good year for entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1944	The representative Odd Omland has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1947	It was the representative of Ingunn Foss who made me take the floor. She stated that she was disappointed that Trond Giske did not bring funds to South Africa's lab. Then it's just to remember that the sample made its introduction in August to September 2013, and we're now following up on the first occasion. There's nothing government does. I have to say that I remember very well that during the election campaign the citizens said that there would be a change of pace for industrial policy in the South. Borders were raised for network trade, large cuts in regional development funds, less than the Environmental Technology Scheme Workers' Party, not support for South Africa, the accelerator programme, to Process 21 or to maintain a purchasing consortium, less appropriations for agriculture and not a reversal of the permit rules. I ask you, is this the pace change for industrial development in South Africa?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1954	The representative, Gunnar Gundersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1957	To the representative of Storberget: Yes, when one finally woke up to how dramatic the competitive power was weakened, too little was done, too late, and we can actually say now that the bomb was completely bombed. It was set at 500 million. kr in a so-called woodworking package. That money's unused. So if the active industrial policy of the Workers' Party is to put money on book so that they are not used, then you've made it. So to day Terje Andersen and Lundteigen: we do things maritime. We have actually restated the net pay scheme. Nothing has happened under the red-green. It's not nutritionally neutral. In the case of the bioeconomy, budgetary agreement was reached on the removal of the levy. It's actually doing something, and we know that the government is working on bioeconomy. We don't need to vote for it. Thank you, President. I should have taken more.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1966	Unfortunately, the representative has no reason to do so. The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1971	There has been a lot of talk about the bioeconomy strategy, and I just need to remind you that there is an overall committee that is behind the remark to develop ‘profitable and sustainable bio-based petroleum substitutes’, and that is a good starting point for me. But this has also been a topic in the past. I would just like to remind you that on 22 June 2009, Minister for the Environment, Erik Solheim, opened a split new biodiesel plant in Fredrikstad as the Uniol. A few months later, on 9 October, the red-green government presented a government budget in which they announced an escalation of the fee of DKK 1.78 per litre, and it was to double in the following year. So it just went a little over a month, you came to December 1st, and then the owners flipped the cards. So Norwegian business has tasted of bioeconomy strategy in the past. It has cost them dearly, more specifically 350 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1978	I have listened to this debate today and I hear a lot about business neutrality and how this government has turned the country in that direction, and with the aftermath of the deterioration of business neutrality, that industrial policy should be to organise and subsidise politicians – that is, that it is the politicians who should know how it should be organised. It's wrong. Enterprise policy that creates growth is a policy that provides opportunities, stimulates and facilitates. I have actually been quite a lot out in business. I also have many years of experience as a sole proprietor. And to this day, I have never met a business manager who calls for regional funds to his company. But I've been out in business and almost every time I hear: the most important thing you can do is to facilitate transportation. Let's get mobility, let's get our goods out, let's get mobility in the workforce. It is and will be the most important thing for growth. So to the issue of wealth taxes, which has also been up – this strange tax that I'm not sure if the OECD knows so much about. What has been referred to here today has at least nothing to do with the property tax. Property tax is a tax on jobs, and if you do not want to take the words of the Right Party, the Advance Party and others for their own, I can refer to Lisbeth Berg-Hansen. I can't do it a hundred percent correctly, but I think she said something like that: yes, I pay taxes on wealth, and that's the tax I pay on boats, farms, sewers, many kilometers of ropework – yes, 170 jobs. That's what I pay taxes on wealth. Then she could also have said that because I do not have an income that gives me the opportunity to pay this property tax, I also need a profit from this company in order to pay my property tax. So it's not right to say that this doesn't weaken the businesses. Obviously, it weakens the businesses. This is the issue of wealth taxes, and now it is soon time that we removed that picture that there are some rich people out in the country who are being written over a large pile of money. That's not the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e1989	I'm very uncertain whether I heard correctly. It almost seemed as if the representative Christensen had evidence that the differences had increased with the blue-blue government. In that case, the representative owns research material that we others do not have access to. But I'm very happy to tell you what the government's policy is to erase the differences, to give everyone the same chance in life: it's school policy. School and education policies are the most important tools we politicians have to ensure that all children have the same opportunities, that all children, regardless of their parents' wallet and their parents' level of education, can take on their own education. Therefore, historical efforts are being made in primary, continuing education, research and industrial innovation. Never before has the use of money accounted for a higher share of GDP. That's good for future generations, and that's good for eradicating differences. Then I hear a lot about business neutrality. Then I owe it to you to point out that the largest pot in the Ministry of Economic Affairs' budget is net wages. It's at 1.8 billion. kr. It's not nutritionally neutral. Nutrient neutrality seems to be a concept the opposition is very concerned about. Government parties are not. And to the extent that Lundtigen is concerned that the best ideas, the strongest projects, that come from the strongest industries, are not reaching, it is wrong. We politicians don't have to tell those who make the decisions. The strongest environments are precisely within oil and gas, marine and maritime industries, which use the largest share of industrial research pots. Finally, about the taxes on wealth. I hear that very many people are concerned about listening to different professors of economics. Even more references are made to the OECD. I would also like the opposition to talk to business itself. They're actually living, they're collecting money from their business, they're paying the tax. They pay a tax that could have been used to strengthen the company, but instead, the opposition is more concerned about getting the money out of the company, so that you can sit here and distribute the values. That's the opposite of what we're thinking. We think that this money can be left in the companies, they can strengthen the businesses, and this money can be managed for the benefit of the community in terms of increased value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2000	The representative Knut Storberget has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2003	This debate confirms that the majority is right, that the government has abandoned an active industrial policy as stated in the comments of the majority. When the representative Gunnar Gundersen took up the forest package that the government presented for a while back, it was not 500 million. SEK, but SEK 750 million. kr. It represents just such a kind of thinking as we call on the government to be able to go in and use industrial policy as an active tool where there is a need for promises. That is what is being taken away from the possibility now when the large money goes into the big drain, among other things. To reduce taxes on wealth, which is a very small and accurate tool, especially to reach entrepreneurs, I just have to say. Many entrepreneurs are entrepreneurs precisely because they don't have wealth – and want wealth, probably, want to create values. To the district profile of the property tax, I have to say that there is a tax relief in three parts of Oslo that is ten times larger than it is in Hedmark and Uppland. It was supposed to be undisputed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2010	Karin Andersen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2014	When you kiss the poor and give to the rich, the differences increase. Cutting the measures and qualifying those who do not have a job increases differences, and the OECD proves that this harms the Norwegian economy and growth in Norway. We spend the big money on the big challenges, says Gundersen, and then he gives the money to the richest people in the world – while I read the census, where it says that one of the most important things is that ‘we have to adapt to the Earth’s carbon emissions. It's serious about this, and then Gundersen and other representatives can't run around talking about business neutrality. It's about creating the green jobs that we need, and it's about ensuring that we can produce the food we need, because it's not that safe any more in a future where the climate is unbalanced.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2019	Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2022	The size has not had a bioeconomic strategy. One doesn't have it. One has far from a common understanding of the importance of biological products in the future or of the economy of biological production. But now we can at least start, and I want to praise the Workers' Party and the Center Party that have come together to establish the common understanding. It's good for Statkraft and Södra's investment in Toftte. One should notice. State Council of Malta says that the strongest ideas come from the strongest industries. Yeah, I totally agree, and that's where the big money goes. But the challenge now is to shift the focus, because one has to shift the focus, one has to change, one has to go into what's the biological products in a completely different way, because that's what we have assumptions for. Then it has to be invested, and then we have to have the current economy, and then there is a lot of money that needs to shift the focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2029	Pál Farstad has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2032	I should like to refer to the distributed and mentioned proposal, No. 14, concerning seed funds and pre-seed funds, which have been the subject of many people today, and I would suggest that it be converted into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2037	Frank Bakke-Jensen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2040	I'm going to raise my eyes and look forward – from 2007 – I'm going to talk a little bit about reindeer, because that's what we have gallantly skipped in this debate. I'm going to be pretty short, because there's a lot of consensus about the change processes that go into reindeer today. They are based on a law adopted in the European Parliament in 2007 and on the rules of use adopted in 2011. The Committee expressed a great deal of support to the Council of State related to the process that is now moving forward, although I have to be allowed to add that at least no one in the reindeer feels that the Council of State is operating in a particularly nutritionally neutral manner during these days.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2045	I took the floor to clarify the quote that I challenged the Minister of Industry, and that she responded to. But before that, I just have to say that I can't help but record that the representative Halleraker is standing on the pulpit of the Stortingen and believes that the OECD, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, is not very good at economic policy, unlike himself. ‘Economic inequality has reduced economic growth in Norway by 9 pst.’ That’s the quote I referred to. The growing inequality has contributed to the growth of economic growth of 9 pst. less than it could have done. So Halleraker says we have to remove this image that the wealth tax is just about the ones that have the most. It is an image I understand very well that the government is very interested in taking down from the wall. The problem is that there is not a single tangible proof of the dynamic effect of the property tax. Where is the documentation based on the argument? The alarming news from the economists who repeated representatives from the Right want to talk down here today, and I addressed, was that the wealth tax will help to increase inequalities or distort opportunities or, to say the words of the OECD, hinder growth even more. I am interested in sustainable economic growth in Norway. That's why I'm also interested in an active policy to prevent differences between people and the differences and opportunities for people. This government is pursuing an economic policy that will hinder growth through growing inequalities. The Minister of Industry's answer and comment on it today is that, after all, there is a school policy. Fortunately, we shall have a debate on this later today, and I look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2054	The representative, Geir Pollestad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2057	The debate is probably approaching the time when what is to be said has been said. I take the floor just to give a brief explanation on proposal No. 15, from SV, which the Center Party is going to vote against. It is important to point out that one of the things we want to address is the proposal for a representative on the action plan against antibiotic resistance in food and animals, in order to have a broader debate on a very important topic, and I am pleased that the Council of State also spent time in its contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2064	What made me throw myself into the debate – we are waiting for the Ministry of Knowledge budget to be dealt with – was that the Minister of Industry said there was a historic investment in primary and secondary school. I would recommend that the Council of State be listening to the debate on the Ministry of Knowledge budget, because what she said is simply not right. In higher education, at least in the professional field, there is indeed a cut in the proposal put forward by the government. In primary schools there was a tiny growth, but taking away a post-secondary and continuing training effort, there is a net decline in government proposals at primary school. Now something is fixed with the Left and Christian People's Party, but when you look at the municipal budget, as the council knows well, we see that many municipalities are facing cuts in the school budget, so it's quite wrong. Then I want to say that the main Minister of Industry in a government is not really the Minister of Industry, it's the Minister of Finance. I think in a year or two we're going to look back at this debate and look at the posts of the government parties almost with disbelief. We are facing a rather tough distinction in the Norwegian economy with the oil price we are now seeing. The question is, are we prepared to meet the enormous change that it will require of us? Are we more prepared by the fact that the government is now setting a new record in phasing in more oil money into the budget and covering more current expenditure of oil money than any government before, is it making us robust and less oil dependent? Are we becoming more robust that most things go to increased consumption and to tax cuts for the richest? Are we becoming more robust that we have less to change and to innovation? Are we becoming more robust because we have weakened the rules of leave, that we have cut the travel life rate, and that we make the local economy weaker? I think we're getting less rusty. The reason we succeeded in 2009, better than any country in the world, in meeting the financial crisis – the lowest unemployment in Europe, good growth in employment, with taxes on wealth – was that we did the right things at the right times. Now we do the crazy things, and we do them at the wrong time. I believe we will pay for that. We're going to be less robust to face this crisis in 2015, and I think the government parties are going to have to pay for that. I hope that the Christian People's Party and the Left are with the Labour Party in the years to come, in making us more effective, more effective in meeting what is going to be tough for Norwegian workers. There's no one in this room, there's people outside the industry, out in the companies, who experience more precarious employment relationships, more temporaryity, a greater chance of dismissals and tougher times, and that's what we should take responsibility for and meet in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2074	It was Jette Christensen who made me take the floor again. I've never said, of course, that I'm better off in economic policy than the OECD, but I said that I'm doing pretty well in industrial policy and quite well in doing business and what's important for business businesses. So it's also with the OECD that I want to add, which maybe Jette Christensen misunderstood: I haven't seen them mention the wealth tax in particular. They talk about the difference between people, and there are workers' party politicians in this room today have pushed their breasts, as well as – of course – caricing the wealth tax. But I want to continue my example, which was from a rather reputable and good working party lady, Lisbeth Berg-Hansen, to further underline the consequences of the property tax. It is just that the company cannot invest for the money you would have to pay in dividends to enable the owners to pay their property tax. That's what happens to the property tax for owners who are not very wealthy even in their personal economy. It weakens the enterprise and therefore weakens the jobs in the long term. It's a problem that I very rarely hear mentioned by red-green politicians. When the wealth tax is referred to by red-green politicians, it sounds as if it is exclusively about large amounts of cash spent on purposes that do not serve society. This is all wrong. In other words, property taxes are paid on everything from tractor and slot machines to industrial buildings and all sorts of other things, and very often the small business managers who sit without the very large personal incomes, who have to take additional dividends from their business in order to pay this tax. It's time we got into the problem understanding what the property tax contributes to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2085	The government is driven from opportunity to opportunity by the issue of property taxes. It's just as if you get mad when it comes from expert opinion that the wealth tax doesn't tend to target them, and it's not going to be the instrument of innovation in business that a blue-headed person wants. I have to remind you that the Scheel selection, which has just submitted proposals for changes to the tax regime and the tax scheme, has concluded that if a person is really going to bet on one thing, it is not the wealth tax to cut off, then one must start looking at corporate taxation. And then I would remind you that SV is the only party that has actually lowered the corporate tax rate in the draft budget. It is not surprising that it is an important tool. It goes directly to the company, while it seems that this government is more concerned with ensuring the role of its owners. Now I'm not going to mention the strange paradox that one on the one hand is occupied by Norwegian ownership and on the other hand sells out as just that to foreigners big Norwegian company. Through this debate, business neutrality has been an ongoing topic. There are not multiples in this room for nutritional neutrality. It has emerged from both the Left and the Christian People's Party and the Red-Green parties that there is no desire here in the Chamber about it. We don't see any sense in it either. For a small country, where the majority of private sector workers work in small businesses, it is precisely the common efforts, the cooperation, which must be the key to the development of business. When it comes to numbers from the OECD, it also seems that the blue-blue government seems a bit annoying that perhaps one of the most neoliberal institutions in Europe comes to realize that the differences were even smaller, even in Norway, the value creation would be higher, i.e. that value creation and differences are actually interrelated. It shouldn't be mentioned in this nutrition debate, because in nutrition debates one should not talk about differences, one should just talk about an active substance. So I just want to point out one thing in the end: Copernicus has been mentioned in this debate. It is not through this debate that the partners have secured the financing of Copernicus. It's done through the ejaculation. That means that a user uses new oil money to secure it, and it creates an insecurity for the budget, because it's not included in the budget. So if Copernicus wants to live on in the future budget, we won't get any answers here. The fact that one has failed to effectively prioritize the Copernicus project into the budget with the government party shows that one has not fully understood the significance of the Copernicus project for an important business in Norway. It also means that one has created an uncertainty about the role Norway should continue to play in the programme. That's what I thought was very strange.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2098	The representative Jette F. Christensen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2101	The cut in the taxes on wealth goes to the individuals who already have the most people. I understand that the representative Halleraker describes how he would want the effect of it to be, but the dynamic effect is still not proved that this will automatically be transformed into jobs. The OECD was again addressed in Halleraker's articles, and I would like to repeat that the OECD indicates that the differences between people are problematic when it comes to economic growth. So my simple question to the representative Halleraker is: will the big cut in the wealth tax lead to more or fewer differences between the possibilities of people?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2113	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2127	A short post in the case of Inst. 68 S for 2014-2015, from Prop. 129 S. It is therefore an agreement to ensure mutual access to fishing in Skagerrak for vessels flying the flag of Denmark, Norway or Sweden. In the past, this access was regulated by the Skagerrak Agreement between Sweden, Norway and Denmark of 1966. This agreement was terminated by Norway on 6 August 2012 because it did not harmonise with modern sea law. It turned out to be unclear as regards jurisdictions in areas affecting the control and enforcement of fisheries. In order to establish a new and more modern agreement, the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast started negotiations with the EU. These negotiations were concluded on 24 October 2013. Pending the entry into force of the new agreement, agreements have been concluded at ministerial level on temporary arrangements for not having to interrupt fishing. The proposed agreement is essentially a continuation of mutual access to fishing in Skagerrak for vessels flying the flag of Norway, Danish or Swedish, but, unlike the former Skagerrak Agreement, it harmonises with the jurisdictional regime of modern sea law. The agreement regulates maritime jurisdiction and resource use and is assumed to be of particular importance, so that the consent of the Storting to the conclusion is necessary in accordance with the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Constitution. I recommend with this setting, as a joint committee stands behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2140	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2154	I'm going to be pretty short. This is an area where there is broad consensus in the Committee that Norway is good. These are agreements we have long traditions to negotiate. Good solutions have been negotiated. It is a unanimous committee that delivers its position. In conclusion, I just want to say that there was some tension in the autumn in the negotiations with Russia. They also went on this level very well. It shows a little bit how important it is that we also operate on these arenas, in the slightly more complicated worldview that we see today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2161	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2175	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2184	On Friday, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries submitted proposals to grant an equity deposit in the State Power SF of 5 billion. kr. At the same time, the bill states that the Ministry will contribute to the strengthening of the company’s financial capacity by reducing dividends by a further 5 billion. kr during the planning period. The Ministry contributes to a total increase in equity in State power of 10 billion. kr during the planning period. The Committee supports the proposal from the Ministry. After spending five and a half hours in the budget debate, it is good to show that the Economic and Social Committee can be effective. We got the case on Friday, decided Tuesday and dealt with it today. There is little doubt that Statkraft is one of the most important and most valuable companies owned by the state. Statkraft manages large Norwegian hydropower resources, which will benefit the entire Norwegian community. Government has an offensive growth strategy, and within renewable energy, the company has also grown strongly beyond the borders of Norway. The growth potential of the renewable energy company is high and increased equity and lower future dividends ensure predictability and the possibility of further growth in this area. When the Storting today adopts an equity deposit to State power of 5 billion. At the same time as reduced dividends, the company will be set up for further growth, which will contribute to future values for both the company and society. The Committee therefore supports the proposal. It is necessary to use Statkraft as a tool for building up more renewable energy. I also notice that the government proposes that the company should make the value creation visible from the Norwegian hydropower. The strengthening of Statkraft, both in this case and in 2010, when Statekraft was added 14 billion. kr, shows that one can use state ownership to build up under the renewable initiative both in Norway and outside the country’s borders. I want to emphasise the importance of ensuring the company's good growth and the possibility of expansion, while ensuring good management of the national and eternal hydropower resources over the company on behalf of all of us. State power is the largest hydropower producer in Norway. The company is assumed to be well-managed in society. Statkraft is also a key player in developing the Norwegian environment of competence in energy production in general and in environmentally friendly energy production in particular, and I assume that this national knowledge environment is developing positively as a result of today's proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2203	Let me first thank the rapporteur and the committee for their prompt consideration. It is important for Statkraft to have a rapid clarification of the financial situation so that they can continue to work towards implementing their strategy and investment plan. I am also very pleased that there is a broad political consensus on the government's proposals. It shows that there is a broad political will to support the continued further development of State power in the field of renewable energy. The government's proposal now involves shooting in 5 billion. kr in new equity in Statkraft, and we announce that the company's equity will be strengthened by a further 5 billion. kr in the case of reduced dividends in the years 2016 to 2018. This makes it possible for Statkraft to carry out investments in renewable energy at around EUR 100 million. 60 B.C.E. kr until 2018. There will be investments both in Norway and abroad. State power has also been contributed on several previous occasions by the State, both in 2003 and 2010. So this has been done on proposals from governments of different political colours, and it reflects the broad political consensus that State power is an important company that the state that owns wants to develop further. State power has a unique position, with considerable experience and competence in environmentally friendly power generation. The company is Europe's largest renewable energy producer and also develops a non-European portfolio, primarily in hydropower. The world needs significantly more energy in the future, and it needs more clean energy, and by continuing to invest in Statkraft, we are contributing to this. State power was established as a company in 1992 through the separation of significant Norwegian hydropower resources from the state. Despite substantial investment internationally in recent years, it will continue to be the case that most of the performance of State power in the coming years will come from Norwegian hydropower. It is important to note that the return from these resources falls to the community, and therefore the government is concerned that the investments made by Statkraft other than Norwegian hydropower do not bind up the entire cash flow from the Norwegian hydropower resources. Therefore, we are also concerned that the cash flow from the Norwegian hydropower business is made visible in a good way. It is on this basis that the Ministry will launch a dialogue with Statkraft on how to increase the visibility of the cash flow from the Norwegian hydropower resources within the framework of today's Statkraft. I believe that the government's proposal has found a good balance between the considerations relating to state ownership in State power. It is also a pleasure to see an overall committee agree with this. It is important for the predictability of Statkraft to continue, and it also says something about the willingness of an overall magnification to facilitate the development of the company, which has its core competence in the field of renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2220	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2223	The Labour Party is pleased that the government is following up the Governing Board’s strategy and investment plan into the new planning period, which is a continuation of the strategy put forward in 2010, as the company also increased its equity of 14 billion. kr. Government requested the Ministry to strengthen an equity deposit of 15 billion. kr, and the Ministry contributes to a strengthening of equity of 10 billion. kr in total during this planning period. The Council of State certainly has good arguments for this difference, but the Council of State can explain why it's up to 10 billion. kr and not 15 br. kr, as requested by the company?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2230	Money is a scarce resource, and then we have to look at the application we get in and review it carefully. We have. We've used both internal forces and external advisors to go through the investments to Statkraft and the plans they have, and so our assessment is that 10 billion. kr is a good contribution to the implementation of the plans that the company has over the next few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2235	That's a follow-up to the previous question: Now we've got an answer to why it's going to be 10 and not 15, and then my question is, why does a model of 5 billion have been selected? kr in the capital injection and 5 billion. kr i reduced dividends during the planned period?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2240	This is a sensible model in view of the fact that the State has a dividend policy in Statkraft. So we think it's wrong on the one hand to put in 10 billion. kr and, on the other hand, dividends will be collected in the next few years, when investments will be made in the next few years. It is then right to make a cash deposit now based on the plans they have. But further, we're reducing our own space of action, so that we use the total space of action to give Statkraft the opportunity to make further investments. It is a sensible economic policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2245	Then the cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2261	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Left 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. In addition, 10 minutes are allocated to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to four lines with replies from the main speakers of each party group and six lines with replies from members of the government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2272	When the networks become long and cold, the Storting makes what is often the most important decisions for the future, namely what choices we make in the distribution of money on the state budget. Here we find out what we really put first, here we see whether fine words and election vows are translated into reality, here we know who the sun should shine on, and who the shadow should fall on. Let me first thank the Committee for a good work on the budget position and for a good cooperation in getting all the comments and suggestions in the vote in place. For the Scientific Committees, it is demanding that government parties are unable to have a budget in place within the time limits set by the Stortinget for the budgetary procedure, but it shows in a very clear way that the government parties are at an extreme – and far from the political centre of gravity in the Stortinget and Norway. «You shall have a day in the moon» was reversed when the Stortinget dealt with the government's knowledge budget last year. For even Councillor Røe Isaksen’s accounting skills did not go to conceal the realities – of 4 billion. kr extra from the oil fund went little or nothing to knowledge. All additional efforts in the field of knowledge were covered by cuts in the same field. The oil money went to tax cuts to those who have the most from before. But the year after, when the government was going to start work on their budget with blank sheets and pencils for, the Right Party and the Advance Party were finally going to show what they meant by knowledge. Today we have the answer. In a budget where the government sets a new Norwegian record in the phase-in of oil money, basic, primary and secondary education comes out about zero. In a letter to Stortinget, state councillor Røe Isaksen says that the net increase is 98 million. kr. For comparison, the government spends between 8 and 9 billion. tax cuts – and again: to the richest in Norway. This means that the government spends a little over a hundred percent on basic training compared to tax cuts. One hundredth is a very small number, not a very large number, if anyone in the hall would think so. The proposal for the knowledge budget followed up the unanimous desire of Stortingen for more continuing education for the teachers – it was just to be lacking! An increase of 143 million. kr is widely supported in this room. But when the net increase in initial training is 98 million. This means that other areas will have to pay for continuing training – a net cut in the other initial training budget. There was no trace of other bets on the Right's knowledge budget. There was nothing to be done early for children who are struggling, nothing to reduce the size of the classes, nothing to help more people through high school, nothing to strengthen the fight against bullying, and at the same time we know that the school sector is affected by tax failure and weak growth in the municipal sector. The stories of cuts in the municipalities are now coming daily, and the schools are also being hit. Here in the hall, state councillor Røe Isaksen said a few weeks ago that prioritisation of the municipalities is not something he is responsible for. No, he does not, although of course it helps with a minister of knowledge who also emphasizes the importance of municipalities betting at school. But the main problem in the municipalities is not that municipal politicians don't want to spend money in the schools, or that they want to cut, the problem is that they don't have the money to invest in the schools, and that they're forced to cut. The Minister of Knowledge as a member of the Government can do something about that. You're responsible for that. For it is the government parties and the majority here in the Chamber that determine the framework of the municipalities. And once again, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have got something adjusted to a terrible arrangement by the government, but far from enough to give the municipalities a real opportunity to bet on school. The distance between the world in which the Minister of Knowledge is located, and everyday life in schools could hardly be greater. So today we know what the Right Party and the Advance Party stand for. Never have we paid more of our current bills with oil money. However, the change in course notified in the field of knowledge was a change of course away from bets — increasing the number of school hours, extra teachers in high school, school management programmes and much more — to a course where, apart from continuing education for teachers, the arrows pointed downwards. The Council of State, Røe Isaksen, was simply the great loss of the budgetary conference in the government's internal struggles over the budget crowns. Fortunately, a unanimous increase today will firmly reject the Minister of Knowledge's draft budget. Here he is denied a cut in the outreach grant, no to the tuition fee for foreign students, no to the cut in adult education, no to the cut to the volunteer organisations and no to the cut to the higher education institutions. Still, some remain cut, but the Christian People's Party and the Left shall be praised for having got away many of the council's cut proposals from the Red Isaacs. The most bizarre feature of the autumn’s political processes around the budget occurred when the Norwegian student organisation was to celebrate the rejection by the Stortinget of Røe Isaksen’s proposal to introduce a study fee for foreign students outside the EEA. Then it could be seen that the Council of State, Røe Isaksen – completely without shame in life – met to provide the cake that was purchased for the celebration. So he was going to celebrate that his own proposal was suppressed by an active student movement, an overall education sector and an overall opposition in the Stortinget. There could be a lot of cake pissing on the State Council of the Red Isacce in the future. We can expect him to join the study associations to celebrate that his proposal for a deep cut in adult education was rejected. We can expect him to come to a folk high school near you to celebrate that his proposal to cut to the folk high schools was stopped. Pupils and apprentices in high school must have their cake ready when the Minister of Knowledge will celebrate that the cuts in the outreach grant were stopped. And non-governmental organisations, who do an important job in Norwegian school, must start with the baking before the Minister of Knowledge comes to celebrate that the cuts in their budgets were stopped by Stortinget. If the Minister of Knowledge's budget had been adopted, if the Right and Advance Party had had a majority in this Chamber, the cuts would have been a reality – not as the Minister of Knowledge said in the debate on the Kindergarten budget, that it was not really a final budget that was put forward, because it was to be negotiated and edited. The government must be in charge of the budget that has been presented, and that was to a large extent a budget cut. It is good that the Stortinget puts an end to this, and that the Minister of Knowledge – perhaps more than any Minister of Knowledge before him – has got the draft budget for the next year then to the degrees that they have passed. There is a commitment to children and young people's knowledge that is the future; it was very little impact on the government's budget. What we decide in the Chamber is better. In the field of research and higher education, the budget was better, including the proposal for research — well and mark in the field of the Ministry of Knowledge and also the Ministry of Industry. In other departments, there is zero growth or cut research. Government parties call most of the autumn a historic bet. Now we have learned that if there is one dollar more in the budget than it was in the last year's budget, it legitimizes the use of the term 'historical'. But if we look at the growth rate in the research budget, it's not as unique. According to NIFU, the growth of the 2015 research budget is 4.2 pst. The average growth rate in the red-green budgets, according to the Ministry of Knowledge's own figures, is 3.5 pst. At the same time, when it is known that the 2015 figures include the phasing-in of the quota to Horizon 2020, the growth is not larger than it must be. Torbjørn Røe Isaksen is the first knowledge minister in very many years who does not have a single new building in the UH sector in his budget. That means that the aftermath is increasing. He also has no new places of study beyond the phase-in of what has already been agreed upon by new courses of study. It is also worrying. In the Workers' Party, we said no to the government's tax code. Only by maintaining the level of taxation at the level of last year, i.e. without increasing taxes and taxes one krone above 2013 level, do we have a completely different commitment to school and education. In our alternative budget in the financial position, we have well over 1 billion. kr more for different knowledge initiatives in addition to the government's proposals. There is more to early efforts for the youngest children, free core time for SFOs in the field of action, increased efforts to combat bullying, increased professional investment, better equipment, increased apprenticeship grants, earmarked school health services, high-quality student education, more student housing and more for the mental health of students. The Christian People's Party and the Left shall be praised for bringing a miserable budget considerably in the right direction. The centre of gravity of this hall lies between the Working Party and the Centre. We had created more knowledge and a better everyday life for Norwegian students, teachers and everyone else who is involved in school and education, if the decisions today had reflected it. The Right Party and the Advance Party constitute an extreme point of Norwegian policy – a tango for two who do not have support in the main hall. I bring this up with the proposals where the Labour Party is a co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2314	The representative Trond Giske has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2319	Like this year, Trond Giske was also very offensive last year, among other things. when in the VG on 7 December 2013, he criticized the Minister of Knowledge for removing the school class. The representative, Giske, spoke at that time, among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘We believe it is wrong for students to pay for the teacher’s continuing training.’ He went on to say: “We strongly believe that it is wrong and that both should be paid for.” In this year's alternative budget, the Workers' Party does not return this cultural school hour, despite the tax increases of over 10 billion. in addition to the Government's proposals. How does the representative Giske’s very strong opinion, in order to use his own words, that it is advisable to afford both continuing education and the cultural school hour, with the Workers’ Party’s alternative state budget for next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2334	It's pretty simple that the budget we're adding has 3.5 billion. kr more to the municipalities, which are the ones who pay for the cultural school class. Also the red-green cultural school fees were given as free money to the municipalities, they were not earmarked. Many used them in cultural school hours, some spent them on enhanced education in other areas, but we thought that we could afford to maintain that allocation in the budget that we had in 2013, and this year we're increasing the budget for 2015 by 3.5 billion. kr. It gives room not just for cultural school hours, but it gives room for early effort, it gives room for refurbishment of school buildings, and it gives room for increased teacher density. It also gives room for further education, it gives room for bet in school. We think in essence that there is more time the teachers need, not just more knowledge, like the government later to believe. Then the community economy is crucial, and there's more than enough room, even for the cultural school class.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2341	A few weeks before last year's election, the representative, Giske, was with former Prime Minister Stoltenberg at Kattem School in Trondheim to finally launch the Labour Party's school policy. They promised, among other things: that, during the forthcoming — i.e. the current — ageing period, between 3 500 and 4000 teachers would offer continuing training. That the Right Party government will offer more than 5,000 teachers as early as next year, I expect the representative Geske to go to the roof of the jubilee. However, what is even more interesting in the election promises to Giske and Stoltenberg is that according to the Address Paper, it was promised that the Workers' Party would set aside a total of 20 billion. SEK for the renovation of school buildings. Can the representative explain where this money is set aside?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2348	Let me do it first, because I think I've had almost every post I've had on school policy since we started here, has said that the bet that's now on continuing education, and that a unanimous growing-up joins, is good. The Prime Minister messed up a little bit with numbers in a question hour here earlier, but it's been corrected. Under our government, further training for teachers was stepped up to half a billion in support of the state. Now we're up on the billion on which we went to the elections, and to which the Storting now unanimously joins. For school construction, the interest-free loan scheme, which I was actually the State Council in 2001, applies. This will increase the framework for municipalities in the 2015 budget. It's not a government bet. It's simply because the interest rate has fallen, so that the same sum, or rather a cut in the sum, actually leads to billions of dollars being available to the municipalities. That's good, too. That's a bet that we're supporting, that gives room for the 20 billion. kr, i.e. over the four-year period, as requested by the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2355	I think most of us know that physical activity is important. The Labour Party has also taken up this budgetary process. They sent e.g. a question to know how much it would cost to introduce one hour of physical activity a day for all students in school, and the answer was something like 3.2 billion. kr. So the Workers' Party has put in $40 million. to this measure in its alternative budget. Now I don't want to be accused of being bad in math, so I've made someone else figure it out for me, but it's supposed to be something like 45 seconds of physical activity per student, that's less time for physical activity than what this line takes. If we were to follow the Workers' Party's escalation plan, it would take something like 80 years before we reach the goal of one hour's physical activity for everyone in school. My question is, has the Workers' Party been a bit tall and dark when they have faced this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2362	We may have been in reverse countries and worn out with fractional calculations and not got it done, but here it's enough so that that money has to go first and foremost to develop possible models of physical activity. There's several ways to do this. The most expensive is likely to add more gym lessons and use that device to get more physical activity. The most affordable is for longer periods of time with the possibility of shifts. Then there is a variety of opportunities between them, where you can perhaps use the day more flexibly — both in school and in the SFO — to ensure that the kids can be physically active. There I think we have a common goal first, but I also think we need to have a common view that we don't need to spend the most money on it; we need to get the most physical activity out of the money we spend. But when that's said, I'm concerned that I think both physical activity and healthy school food contribute to concentration and increased learning in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2369	Learning density has been one of the great themes of the cottage for government as well. They came up with a budget where they didn't take the signal from a large majority on the Storting on more teachers, but after the cooperation agreement they've now agreed to it. Under the red-green government, Kristin Halvorsen was given a test project in the youth school with several teachers, and the feedback from there is that this has worked very well. We know that more and more elephants are in larger groups, and that this is beyond their ability to adapt to training. In our budget, we propose the introduction of a resource standard. That means there'll be a maximum of 15 elephants of 1-4. steps and a maximum of 20 elephants on the rest of the steps of the base ball. My question to the representative Giske is: Will the Workers' Party support the SV's proposal for a teacher's resource standard in the entire base?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2381	I share the perception and concern about the number of teaching years compared to the number of students, and the truth is that after SV, together with the Bondevik government, removed the class division number in 2003 – I think it was – we really have no floor plan in the resources of the school. Why SV did that, still stands for me as a riddle. The Labour Party voted against. That SV will now introduce a resource standard is interesting. I'm very doubtful that it should go at class level, but maybe it should go at municipal level, so you made sure that there was a floor, maybe the teachers would be more willing to use their working time more flexibly, because today it's really the teacher's agreements and reading time that give the floor that SV removed with the reading duty. Let's discuss it, let's look at different models for that. We're not ready to vote on it over the table in the hall today, but we're absolutely open to a discussion that ensures exactly what we're agreed on, namely that the teachers should have time to watch and follow up every single student.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2390	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2393	\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t «This is a strong research budget. We need to see this offensive draft state budget as an important first step in implementing the long-term research plan." This said the Executive Director of the Research Council, Arvid Hallén, when the State budget was presented in October. Following the negotiations in Stortinget with the Left and Christian People's Party, the research budget has been further strengthened. The share of the total budget for research and development – i.e. investment in future jobs – is the second largest since 2000, but only in 2007 this figure was so much higher. We have therefore achieved a solid increase in the research budget in the two budgets for which we have been responsible. From 2010 to 2013, the last red-green years, there was a real growth in R & D budgets of 0.9 pst. So far, during the Solberg government, there has been a real growth of 5 pst. That's the clear speech of the numbers. So you can say that there is no point in itself in increasing public investment, but it is an important point to invest in knowledge to strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian business and to solve major societal challenges. In Norway, we benefit from high wages and a well-developed welfare state. Both parts cost money, and our high wages make it impossible for us to compete for the cheapest. We have to work smarter or compete for quality. Our welfare systems make us dependent on high value creation to be sustainable. The government has high ambitions for Norway as a knowledge nation. We said that in the election campaign, and we show that not only in words, but also in numbers and in action. The budget we are discussing today is an offensive budget for knowledge. In the budget, we have focused on a education policy to provide opportunities for everyone. We know that a good education policy is good social policy, good business policy and good integration policy. In the budget, there is a red thread, which is based on improving the quality of kindergarten, early work, school, higher education, research and business. These elements are fundamental to our ability to create values. Through the Teacher Lift, we invest over 1 billion. kr. to make good teachers even better. Since the Right-Fremskritspart-government took over the government offices, we have tripled the efforts to further train teachers. This means 1,500 new places, and 5,000 teachers can continue training from the autumn of 2015. The budget agreement is also set at 50 million. kr to a new level of competence for non-qualified teachers and 200 million. kr to several teachers from 1 to 4. steps. When the red-green government delivered their cut-off budget, they promised 11 months of study support. It was a hollow promise, because in this year's draft budget – from, for example, The working party – there is no corresponding commitment to the study support. Study support remained relatively still for eight years. The study support has now been lifted in real terms, both in 2014 and 2015. The last time it happened was in 2002. In addition, 2000 new student housing will be built in 2015. It's twice as many as it averaged to be built under the red-green. That's why perhaps the government councillor Torbjørn Røe Isaksen is invited to a cake party by the students. At the same time as the budget, the government presented a long-term research and higher education plan. As part of the initiative, during 2015 the government will strengthen some of the key inputs in research and higher education with fully concrete and measurable measures – increasing the number of recruitment posts by 500 new ones, increasing the allocation of infrastructure by 400 million. increase the funding of the mechanism to stimulate participation in the EU Framework Programme by 400 million. kr. One of the priorities of the budget is the commitment to developing world-leading professional environments. In the 2015 draft budget, the government follows up by 100 million. D related to the recruitment of top researchers, a partnership programme for higher education and research cooperation with priority countries outside the EU and the development of education and research cooperation between the University of Oslo, Simula and the University of California, San Diego. The day yesterday was a brand day. In Oslo City Hall, the Nobel Peace Prize was awarded to Kailash Satyarthi and Malala Yousafzai. On the same day in Stockholm, the Nobel Prize in Medicine was awarded to Edvard and May-Britt Moser – the first Norwegian Nobel Prize in Medicine. Both of these events are big in their own way, and both of these prizes show how important education is, and what can be achieved through excellent research. The budget we are adopting today is a strong budget for the future. The budget makes it possible for us to have high quality education, and for us to stimulate researchers to discover new things, to solve riddles within, for example. medicine, which we didn't think was possible in the past. We are experiencing a shift in the pace of knowledge policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2426	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2429	If there is a change of pace for skilled workers and professionals in this budget, it is then a shift to a lower rate. If you want to find the government's professional position in this budget, you have to look with a magnifying glass — perhaps with a microscope. After having been easy for quite a while, we found out that the government will have a new vocational action in 2015: 8 million. kr to professional network. But when you add up additions and cuts in the budget, you get a net cut in the professional field. Then I would like to ask the representative Vinje: is it really a net job cut in 2015? Does the representative Vinje really believe that a promise is a proper term for what is happening in the professional field in the budget for 2015?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2436	When the government joined in 2013, we started a professional career. It had not been done in many years with the red-green government. We increased the apprenticeship grant twice in two years. The last time the apprenticeship grant was increased was in 2009. And with an increase in the year's budget of NOK 4000 per contract, we have increased the apprenticeship grant by NOK 7500 since we took over after the red-green ones. In the supplementary proposal for 2014, we granted 114 million. additional to vocational and vocational training, and emphasis was placed on measures to improve the conditions of enterprises and to enhance the quality of training. The government also has big plans for the future. We're going to review the offer structure in higher education, we're going to figure out how to offer practical letters in all counties and we're going to work on a strategy to increase the number of apprentices in the state. The government has started a professional career, and it was – with respect to reporting – not a lot of work under the red-green government lately.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2447	In the budget we adopt today, it's set at 80 million. kr for a so-called elite bet. The left is not against bringing international top researchers to our universities – on the contrary, we think it is quite good. But what worries me is if it turns out that there are the five established universities that it's going to be all the way to, in terms of the elitistization. We have three more universities, which are not allowed to participate in this elite campaign, and which, through it, feel like they're being viewed as a B team. These universities also have strong, good, solid and international top-level environments — in different environments — at each university. My question to the representative is: isn't the representative concerned that we're getting an A team and a B team in higher education when there's the five established it's going to be set up, in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2454	The first thing I want to say to that question is that I am very pleased that the government is dry and capable of prioritizing and investing to stimulate more elite environments in Norway. We need that. In recent years, we have had many good instruments that have contributed to this, such as the SFF Facility in the Research Council and the SFI, which focus on research and innovation in distinguished environments, respectively. But we have to recognize that in order to be able to join the international competition and attract skilled labour, it is incredibly important that we also focus on ourselves and are leading internationally. I think we see an example of this year's Nobel Prize in Medicine. But we also have a review of colleges and universities, where we're going to look at just how we can strengthen all the universities and all the universities in Norway. We want to facilitate the strengthening of all higher education institutions and universities, so that they can have an appropriate distribution of tasks. [[The President clubs.]] Then we've also strengthened the colleges in... [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2463	The representative Vinje has said that this is a good budget for research, and we know, among other things. several hundred million kroner are allocated to the quota to participate in the EU Horizon 2020. All the measures proposed by the representative in connection with what the government calls a professional profession are not found by this government at sea. This is something that Stortinget decided in June 2013. That's why we're so eager to hear what they're really adding to this profession. It's great that they have increased the apprentice grant, but 8 million. kr is not exactly a nice sum. I want to ask the representative: how does the representative feel that 8 million. kr for specific measures can be defined as a professional lift? It is shown, among others: to a hospice system. There are schemes that the high school actually implemented over 30 years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2472	We don't know much about the future, but we know that we're going to need a lot of skilled workers, and that's the representative of Tingelstad Wøien and I totally agree. I am aware that the four parties that are now working together in Stortinget worked very intensively to strengthen measures for the professions when they were in opposition, and now we have started the escalation that we believe is necessary to strengthen the professions. As I have said, we started a professional boost of 114 million. kr extra in 2014. We have increased further in the 2015 budget, and we have plans to strengthen this further. That's why I look forward to seeing that together we can identify what is needed. I have e.g. said that we should go through the supply structure of higher education. At the hearing, we have sent a new regulation to the project for immersion, where the aim is for all students to spend more time in the company. We've strengthened grants to businesses, and we've increased the apprenticeship grant, so we're on the go.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2481	Right's ideal is the 'drum teacher', and for dream teachers, class size is not important. They're so good that the students can be many. Year after year, Right has categorically rejected proposals for having more teachers and smaller class sizes. Then came the budget agreement, and there's going to be an increase in the learning density of the lowest steps. A report from the US National Education Policy Center recently concluded that ‘Class size matters, and it matters a lot’. The same is true of the Federation of Education. They also require a resource standard in the school. The experience from the floor is that several teachers increase the learning outcomes. With the budget agreement that the government party now has with the Christian People's Party and the Left, after the Christian People's Party's good work, has Right now turned around and become some with SV that class size has great meaning?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2489	The main right-hand priority for the school is to get even better teachers. We've been working hard and focused on strengthening our teachers' skills. We also need to create a new teacher education, just to create teachers who in the future have greater professional depth, and who will thus be able to provide students with even better education. It is possible that the representative, Knag Fylkesnes, has found a research report that says that ‘size matters’, but when one goes through all the factors affecting learners’ learning, the class size is not the most important. The most important thing is a good teacher. Of course, it is nice that we should focus on the younger students – we should – but on the question of a general norm on the size of the class, I have no idea that we have turned around.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2496	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2499	First, I would like to thank the Committee on Budgetary Cooperation. I would like to extend special thanks to the Christian People's Party and the Left, who, through the budgetary agreement here on the Stortinget, have helped to further strengthen the education and research budget. One of the main government projects is to further develop the knowledge society, because knowledge provides opportunities for individuals, regardless of their background, and forms the basis for social mobility in society. Knowledge is essential for strengthening Norwegian competitiveness and for building the country for the future. This budget follows up government ambitions through a historical commitment to schools, educational institutions, students and research communities. Nothing means more to students' learning than the teacher's competence and ability to learn away. The party is pleased that the government is continuing the great effort to further train teachers. The initiative ensures that a total of 5,050 teachers and 500 school leaders are offered further training within the Quality Competence strategy from autumn 2015. I am sure that this effort will produce measurable results. There are now many teachers in Norwegian school who do not have the skills to teach in the subject in which they teach. to a level of professional competence for unskilled workers at school. We see this as a good measure for more people to qualify for the profession. Early work is one of the most important measures for the success of more people in school. In order to ensure early action, the budget agreement set at 200 million. kr to increase the teacher's density from 1 to 4. class from the autumn of 2015. It is a prerequisite that the positions should be filled by formal teachers. The Progress Party expects this to strengthen the pressure on early efforts and individual adaptation. International studies show that Norwegian students perform below or around the OECD average in both mathematics and natural sciences. Mathematics is the subject where most students get grades 1 and 2 in high school, and where most students spend time in high school. This suggests that we have a real science problem in school. Good real-life knowledge has contributed to Norway, among other things. is the world leader in the maritime sector, oil and gas. The Progress Party believes that the need for real science will be vital for what we will also live up to in the future. The Progress Party is positive that the government is embarking on a new real science strategy in 2015. The strategy includes, inter alia: the creation of real-time professional municipalities and intends to stimulate municipalities to take full responsibility for improving the real-time knowledge of children and young people. The real-life expert group set up by the Ministry has now delivered its report and made a number of concrete proposals on how to improve students in mathematics and the natural sciences. The Cooperation Agreement between the Government Parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left continues the government's commitment to the Vocational Training Plan, which was launched in 2014. The agreement increases the apprenticeship grant to NOK 7 500 per apprenticeship contract. Before the Progress Party joined the government offices, this grant had been on site resting for five years. SSB forecasts show that we will lack approx. 134 000 skilled workers in 2030. The government’s professional traineeship, which started in 2014, meant strengthening the practical letter system, the exchange model, the teacher’s hospitation scheme, grants to new apprenticeships and the professional correction of common subjects. These offers will continue next year. In addition, the system for vocational trainers to be able to house in companies and for people from professional life to be able to host schools is continued. That's set at 8 million. kr to enhance the competence of professional trainers in the 2015 budget. This is a new and important bet. In order for upper secondary education students to complete their education in the enterprise, there is a need for far more apprenticeships. The proposed increase in the apprenticeship grant will hopefully give more places, but the Progress Party is committed to remembering that the Council of State needs to follow closely up the social contract concluded in order to meet the obligation to increase the number of apprenticeships. I must also add that the Advance Party has expectations of an even greater investment in the Vocational Training Plan next year. Humans are Norway's most important resource, and human capital accounts for about half of the total. 80 pst. of national wealth. For various reasons, many people have to change their occupations, the content of established professions has to change, and the continuous development of new working methods requires many to acquire new adult skills. The Progress Party believes that there is a great need for good and transparent education for adults. This is why the Progress Party is very positive that the government has launched a series of measures that will strengthen adult learning, including: by drawing up a guide for the assessment of real competence in admission to vocational schools and for the assessment of real competence for exemption from higher education. It has launched local provision of training for teachers and others who teach adult education. It is proposed to develop a monitoring tool aimed at increasing the participation and implementation of training by adults and to enable training providers to provide better adapted and organised training. A comprehensive adult career guidance system shall also be developed. With this budget, the government is putting forward a stronger commitment to higher education and student welfare than any previous government budget. The government is increasing student funding by 3.1pst, which is well above the expected price increase. In the budget agreement, we are adding to the construction of 2,000 furniture units in 2015. It's as much as a double compared to the red-green last budget. Furthermore, the credit card limit is increased from 40,000 to 50,000 kroner, which benefits our students. All in all, the government's budget allows students to spend more time on the studies. The Progress Party believes it is socio-economic wise. The Right-wing Party Government added together with the Report budget. St. 7 for 2014–2015, Long-term plan for research and higher education 2015–2024. The plan contains a number of major and obligating escalations over time, but the start-up shot is already underway in 2015. The government will grant 100 million. kr to develop several world-leading professional environments. The EU is our largest research partner, and today we have the world's largest research collaboration through Horizon 2020. It is important for Norway to participate in the major research collaborations, including: to gain access to strong professional environments and contact with world-leading researchers. Today we are unable to return a satisfactory share of the funds we contribute to the project. That's why I'm happy that the government is giving me 115 million. to incentive schemes, including through the STIM-EU, in order to facilitate greater participation in Horizon 2020. The budgetary agreement, which the government parties have concluded with the Christian People's Party and the Left, continues the main efforts in the government's draft government budget for 2015, thus ensuring growth and value creation throughout the country. The budget agreement resulted, inter alia, in: in 100 new recruitment posts in addition to government proposals for government budgets. This gives the sector nearly 150 new recruitment positions next year. The Progress Party is pleased that it will facilitate increased research efforts at Norwegian educational institutions. The government's knowledge effort is important to provide all opportunities for active participation in society, but also to strengthen our competitiveness. The competition for knowledge is global, and we are actually competing with all other world countries. Norway can never compete with low-cost countries at price, but we can compete for smart solutions and good quality. According to NIFU, government appropriations for research have never previously accounted for a higher share of gross domestic product. This budget clearly shows that government and the bulk of the population are giving priority to education and research. It is pleasing to the Progress Party, and it is arming the country for the future. Faith, religion and outlook on life play an important role in Norwegian society, both for the community and for individuals, and the Norwegian Church is strongly in the population. The Progress Party looks forward to the Norwegian Church becoming its own legal entity and, in line with other religious communities, to master its own house. Our church buildings are among the most important historical buildings in Norway, and for the Progress Party it is of great importance that these are secured and cared for in the best possible way. The Progress Party is therefore pleased that the government parties, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, strengthened the grant to secure church buildings by 2 million. kr and gave 1 million. kr for the continuation of the interest-rate compensation scheme for church buildings. So this is going to be 500 million. kr. The Progress Party is also pleased that the government is following up the point of the Government Platform, which indicates that ‘the Government will contribute to a national commitment to the security work of peaceful and protective churches’.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2543	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2546	Stavanger, who is in the home state of Thorsen, is already using less than the national average at school. Nevertheless, the schoolcuts in Stavanger are about to be. Thirty-four million. kr in the draft budget to be adopted by now before Christmas. This is just one example of a trend that you can see in the whole municipality of Norway. Is the representative of Thorsen happy that the government's municipal structure is forcing local politicians throughout the country, including in her own country, to cut tens of millions in school?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2551	The fact is that Stavanger Municipality got more with this government's budget than they got with the red-green budget. In addition, the Rogaland counties have received several million with this government budget. At the top of it all, there's a fact about municipal grants, that the total income that the growth gives is 7.8 billion. I'll give you $4.7 billion. - free income. It's equal to 1.5 pst., which is at the level of growth in recent years. The fact is that the Right-Fremskritsparti-government ensures a greater room for action for municipalities in relation to recent years, because the demographic costs are estimated to be lower. But what surprises me more is that the Workers' Party, which has 10 billion. to spend more, not spend more money on the school, education and research budget than they do. They're the ones who have the deciduous lowest budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2556	Bullying is a theme that many people have been working on this fall, including: because both students and parents have stood up and told their strong stories in the media. We have studies that show that 17 000 children experience bullying. We have other studies that show that the number might be significantly higher than that. So both the Minister of Knowledge and the Prime Minister have made a positive mark in this case, and I am very pleased about that. But what does the Progress Party think are the main measures and instruments we need to look at in the fight against bullying and in the work for a safe and good learning environment in school?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2563	I want to thank you for the question. That thousands of students are being bullied in school is completely unacceptable in the eyes of the Progress Party. Bullying has major consequences and, in worst cases, can ruin the lives of many school students. In some cases it also has fatal consequences, with fatal outcomes. The progress team believes that bullying and unfine behaviour should be continuously followed up and shut down by all adults in school. School-Norway must take seriously the training law § 9a-3, where it is quite clear that schools must work actively and systematically to promote a good school environment. School owners, school managers and school staff should be made much more clearly responsible for bullying, and the Progress Party believes that bullying is the responsibility of bullying. Today, there are also numerous anti- bullying programs. We know much less what works, and therefore we are pleased that our Minister of Knowledge will have a review and see what works.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2568	The next speaker is representatives of Anne Tingelstad Wøien.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2571	I guess I'm a representative and not a representative, but that's how it works! As Mr Thorsen sjål said, neither the government's draft budget nor the conciliation have contributed to any professionalism. It is, as the representative stressed, a continuation from last year, and I share the representative's expectations that the decisions on which the representative Thorsen sjål was involved a year and a half ago should be implemented. The representative Vinje previously brought up here both letters of practice, review of study programmes, exchange model, professional correction of common subjects and hospitations, etc., and it is actually the decisions that the representative Thorsen sjål took part in. I wonder if the representative is satisfied that the so-called professional profession is broken and reduced to teacher training and an increase in the apprenticeship grant.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2578	This representative is actually satisfied so far with the professional position of the government. The background is that many different tasks are carried out that are in line with what the representative Tingelstad Wøien and I myself agreed to. But things take a familiar time, and now the government is working on a review of the offer and structure of secondary education to ensure that young people have a vocational education and training demand in their working life. We are working to find out how – if not – practical letters should be offered in all countries to young people who are at risk of falling out of higher education, and a new regulation has been sent to the hearing for a project for professional depreciation. In addition, a sample has been set up that goes through the different theoretical subjects in order to make them more practical.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2584	The so-called teacher vow is something I would call a bourgeois project. But so far, the government has focused primarily on what is going on in continuing and continuing education, and mostly in real science. It's important and good and good, but for the Left, it's important that we think even wider and even more when we talk about lifting teachers. It is important for us that we not only have continuing education in math, but that we also have it in English and in other subjects, it is important for us that we get other professional groups into school, and it is important that we do something with the so-called non-qualified, which I know is thousands of people who teach in Norwegian school today. What I would like to ask the representative Thorsen is: what will the government parties do to get more teachers into school, to keep the teachers who are in school, and to lift the so-called non-qualified teachers? And isn't the representative very happy with the 50 million. kr Left and Christian People's Party got into the deal at the very end?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2589	Thank you for a good and important question. The party of progress and the government is on the same line with the Left very much concerned with facilitating that we will have plenty of qualified teachers in school. We also know that today there are many who have education in humanities, social sciences and real science, and that these only lack practical education to become qualified as teachers. I also know that the department has had a review of PPU, and I actually expect that there will be changes that will facilitate a good practice-related PPU. Incentives to build on practical and educational training to become a skilled teacher. In addition, we know that there are many teachers who do not work at school. The removal of time thieves and the fact that teachers are now being given more career opportunities in school, I also hope that they will be able to get more people into school and stay in school. I'm happy for the 50 million. kr that came, and expect them to also lead us to get more qualified teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2594	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2597	How are we going to solve the climate challenges? How are we going to be able to balance social differences in our society? How will Norway cope with the end of the oil? How are we going to be able to protect our democracy? How can we build respect and understanding between people across religions and cultures? These are just some of the major policy issues and challenges. They all have it in common that the answer points to school and education. We know that a good school and a good education system are crucial for our future. Therefore, being a school and education policy is both a great responsibility and a great privilege. The Christian People's Party is concerned that we should have a school that is good for everyone, where children develop professionally, both as humans, and as fellow humans. We are concerned that everyone should have equal rights to education, and that we should have a education system and a research activity in our country that facilitates value creation and good social development. Next year's knowledge budget will be a good budget. I note that the Christian People's Party and the Left have received praise for the result of the budgetary agreement both from the government parties and from the opposition. It's very nice. While the government parties say that a good budget was even better, we get praise from the opposition because we have managed to stop some cuts that they think were unfortunate. I'd like to give you a little bit straight to both sides. There was a lot that was good in the government's draft budget. I think the Solberg government has so far delivered well on its promise to bet on school and education. We see a clear commitment to research, we see a strengthening of the UH sector, and we see a clear commitment to the teacher. At the same time, there were several things in the budget that it was impossible for the Christian People's Party to accept. We couldn't agree to cut public schools, study associations and voluntary organizations. Folk high school is an important part of our education system, and we know that for some people, the year at public high school is one of the most important years of life. We know that the development of competences in study associations and voluntary organisations is incredibly important for many people and for many communities, and that they contribute everything from the training of disabled people to the maintenance of old craft traditions. Knowledge and competence are more than what can be measured in study scores. That's why it was important for the Christian People's Party to stop these cuts. We were also given the protection of the free principle in higher education. No tuition fee will be introduced for international students. This said the majority of people refused last year, and now it is assumed that a unanimous decision is rejected by the free principle. I'm glad – this is an important matter for the Christian People's Party. But when I agree that the budget got even better after the conciliation, it's not just about the cuts that we managed to stop. It's just as much about the bets, the new bets, that we also found room for. We put in several scholarship positions for universities and colleges. We got an increase in the apprenticeship grant, so it becomes a little bit more interesting for more companies to hire apprentices. We know that one of the major challenges in our society is that we are facing a shortage of skilled workers. The SSB has estimated that we need 160,000 new skilled workers by 2030, so it's a challenge that we have to take seriously. We did not least put in place an early school effort, by increasing the teacher's density at the lowest levels of the class. I think this is an important and correct approach to solving many of the major challenges we have in school. One of the main challenges is that too many children fall off the load already during the first years of school. I think it's right to see this in the context of the fact that the teachers today have less time for each individual student than a few years ago. It is about teachers having more tasks than before, but it is also about teachers being responsible for more students than before. The classes have grown, there are several students on each teacher. In parallel with this development, we see that the need for special education has increased. We have to use a lot of resources to close knowledge gaps later in school. We have to spend a lot of resources hanging back on the students who fell off the load in the first and second classes. I think there are many of those who today receive special education, who could have benefited from ordinary teaching, if the teachers had had a little more time for them. This does not mean that teachers are not competent enough or that teachers do not have long enough education. This is about the framework for the working day of teachers, and it's about teachers being responsible for a little too many students each, because when you get responsibility for more students, it's clear that then it's more difficult to adapt the teaching to the individual student's needs. We know that the students are very different. One teacher once told me that her class is like a sun shining in every direction. It's a very nice picture of the differences among the students, but it's clear that it also gives the teacher some challenges. Some children enter the school gate for the first day of school and can already read. Others need a long time and much closer follow-up to be able to crack the read code. Someone comes in and is highly motivated from the first day; others think it's a little more challenging always to sit neatly on his stump when the school clock beats. But all these students are entitled to adapted training. This will make it easier for the teacher to succeed when they are given responsibility for fewer students, or they may be two teachers present in the classroom. That's why I'm glad we put in place an early school effort through increased teacher's density at the lowest class stages. What we've got in place now isn't enough, but it's a very good and important start, which I'm motivated to work to get up late. Then I'd like to say a little bit about the church budget. As a result of the State-Church settlement in Stortinget, the Church is required to assume the responsibilities of employers for church employees and to assume a number of administrative tasks from the State. By 2017, the Church must be able to take over these tasks in a good way. It's going to require new systems. It's going to require an upgrade of the organisation. This is a conversion process that is both demanding and costing money. I am therefore very pleased that the Christian People's Party, the Left and the government parties agreed to grant 16 million. kr in conversion funds to the Church. It is important, not least in view of the safety of workers who are now to be moved from the country to what becomes their own legal entity in 2017. Finally, I would like to thank the members of the Committee for a good cooperation and constructive dialogue around next year's budget. I look forward to the continuation, because after New Year we will address major and important issues, such as the long-term plan for research, structure and quality in higher education. I hope that we also get a case for the Stortinget on the learning environment and the fight against bullying, after the Djupedal Committee reports. It is unacceptable that so many children experience being bullied and harassed at school. For some, this means a broken childhood. We all have a responsibility to stop bullying, both we who are politicians, and we who are parents, school owners, school leaders and teachers. This fall we have seen a tremendous commitment to the people around this matter in our society. I hope that this engagement can be kept up here in the storeroom as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2623	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2626	The representative Anders Tyvand just described, in a good way, how today's teachers experience their everyday life and why it is important for more employees to enter school, especially in the small school stage. At the same time, many councillors have just, or recently, presented themselves in school, to which many local authorities must deal by adopting or rejecting, but that there will probably be school cuts in a number of municipalities. My question is about the new positions that the Christian People's Party participated in in the budgetary conciliation: What if the new positions from this conciliation will not lead to an increase in teacher's density because the municipalities are cutting posts? Aren't we equidistant?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2633	Thank you for the question. We are now working to find a reasonable arrangement on this allocation, so that we can make sure that this money is spent in a reasonable way and in line with our intention. It is the intention of the Christian People's Party, in the longer term, to establish a national standard of teacher's density, so that the municipalities cannot use the school as a balancing post. Then, of course, it must also be accompanied by money from the state, and we are willing to give priority to the budgetary procedures in the coming years. This matter is now under discussion in the Stortinget, in the Church, Education and Research Committee, and I am very excited about the treatment there.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2640	Norway spends considerable resources on education compared to other countries. According to international surveys, we are among the countries with the highest teacher density. Nevertheless, we are only in the middle of the tree when it comes to results in school. There are also no clear research findings that show that higher teacher density provides better learning outcomes for students. For the Progress Party, the most important thing is to deploy additional teaching resources where needed, as well as early efforts. The question is: what kind of research does the Christian People's Party justify its commitment to increasing teacher's density?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2647	We build it on different research, both from Norway and from abroad. For example, I can. mention the OECD report that came in the autumn, which points to the importance of class size, especially for the weakest students who are just the ones who fall off the load in 1st and 2nd classes, and who we are concerned about caring for. So it's true that Norway spends a lot of resources on teachers and that we have a relatively high teacher density, compared to several other OECD countries. This is due to two things: one is that we have few special schools, so we all have students in the same school. Then we have a lot of special education that needs to influence this statistics. In addition, we still have many small schools in Norway, which help to draw this average up. But the reality is, over the past 15 years, class sizes have grown, and more and more are in large classes. At the same time, we see that more and more people need special education.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2654	Like several others, I would also like to ask you a little bit about the increased teacher's density in terms of 1 to 4. class. Now the left does not disagree that we need to have more teachers in school, and we also want to bet on continuing education. But then we might have disagreed a little bit about what should come first. We have had our focus primarily on strengthening the teachers we already have in school today, both those who are teachers and – not least – those who are so-called non-qualified who work in school today, those who are not initially qualified to train at the stages and in the subjects in which they teach. What worries us a little bit about the effort we're now going to put into 1.-4. class is that we get a reform to get more unskilled into school. There's nothing left to want. How does the Christian People's Party view that we should be able to fill these positions with teachers, and that we do not end up with a large-scale reform to get unskilled into school?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2661	This is not a reform to get more unskilled into school. I understand that this question is coming, because what we're talking about is hiring more teachers in school, while the SSB points out that we're actually facing a teaching shortage. What we're going to need to fully finance our investment and meet that 100 pst. is about 1,500 new annual works. So we know that we have about 40,000 trained teachers in other professions in our society who have left school and left the teaching profession. One of the most important reasons why they have chosen to leave school is precisely that they feel that they have too little time for each student. When we give teachers more time for each student, we will make the teaching profession more attractive, we may be able to stop the leakage from school and out in other professions, we will get more people to choose to become teachers, and we may also succeed in getting some of those who are now in other professions back to school.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2669	I'm not going to ask Christian People's Party questions about apprenticeship. Here we're very in line, there are nuance differences that are completely inconsequential in this discussion. What I'm going to ask questions about is research. Recently there was a nutrition debate in this room, and everyone is talking about that now one needs to change and prepare for the future and get more bones to stand on, etc. – the phrases there. This must also have meaning for research and what we are researching. If there's one thing that means a lot for what kind of future we're going to have, that's what kind of area we're actually researching. In the setting we're currently dealing with, SV has a comment that we're all about, where we want to move money from oil exploration to new renewable and ground-breaking research areas. Unfortunately, we are all alone in twisting the efforts of petrostrate research into a more renewable solution. What does the Christian People's Party think about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2678	Petroleum industry remains Norway’s main industry. I believe it is important to maintain research in this field too, both in order to make better use of resources and in order to be able to extract oil and gas in a more environmentally friendly way. I fully agree that we must also prepare for a new era, in which the oil industry must become less important to our society than it is today, and of course this must also be reflected in research. I think that a lot of the expertise we have today in the oil industry can also benefit from a green shift in the future. The Committee shall then examine the long-term research plan as soon as possible. There is climate and environment and environmentally friendly energy one of the areas of focus that is being developed. I think that's very positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2687	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2690	One of my favorite stories was Prøysen's story about Snekker Andersen. The carpentry collide with the Christmas party when he goes out and wears the Christmas dinner theme, and with one thing he has got the job of surpriseing the children-in-laws at Christmas Eve. But he wonders what to dress like, because they're used to eating. You don't have to dress up,' says the Nissan, 'cause my kids look sneezing all year round, but a decent carpenter they've never seen. It's important that some of us don't end up in a situation where we're gonna be wetters who don't know what a joiner looks like. I don't think there's any immediate danger to it, but the Prussian was one of the foremost to depict the lives of ordinary workers and those who thought they were better than others. Today, everyone has a right to school, and there has been a great deal of relaxation between those who have, and those who don't. But after we got the blue-blue government, there have been several changes that perhaps unnoticeably lead us as societies in the wrong direction in terms of both social and geographical smoothing. I note that the government believes they are taking a vow for the professions, and since the position of the practical subjects has been one of the most important matters for the Central Party, it was therefore with excitement that I threw myself over the budget proposal, and then to be disappointed that I did not find anything specific about the professional subjects there, because with massive marketing of the so-called professional profession I had not thought I would be disappointed, for the government then provided the promise of tax relief. The shock was probably double because once again it became clear to me that national school authorities are good at talking about professional subjects, but they are poor at following up. I'm impatient, and I'm annoyed on behalf of all students who can't show their potential. I am glad that the government is following up the social contracts, where the previous government made the social partners commit themselves to working together on more apprenticeships. I appreciate an increase in the apprentice's grant. This is also in line with the Central Party's alternative draft budget. I can report that the Uppland County Municipality has already met the objective of increasing the number of learning places by 20 pst. already one year before the time. It's an example of follow-up, but still there's students waiting for a place to learn. Providing apprenticeships is a continuous task and must be closely followed up by national, regional and local authorities. In today's debate, in line changes and from several other debaters in the Chamber, a number of small sums were put at the top of the funding of the professional subjects in the last year's budget. So it showed that there is money that was granted last year, continued this year, and this year the professional profession has been reduced to a budget of 8 million. to professional networks between vocational teachers and the labour market. Both increased apprenticeship and professional networks are fine, but hospitation and networking are not exactly new. Hospitation they were in Hadeland 30 years ago, and it should have been a natural part of the offer now. What am I missing? I miss concretely more flexibility by getting students to switch between school and business earlier in the school run. That's what we called the exchange model. In Report. St. 20 for 2012–2013 On the right track, the Red-Green Government proposed to facilitate ‘exchange models for the whole student group in educational programmes where local conditions are present and where the technical advice supports a test’. The evaluation showed that the promise of knowledge did not have a positive effect on the professions. Despite agreed applause from both industry and those working in vocational training, only 25 schools in the country are currently offering the exchange model. Why in the world is there no more? We have over 400 high schools. More outsourcing will be a challenge for the labour market, but it is also a challenge for county municipalities. If an exchange model is to be taken seriously, it must necessarily lead to a smaller ‘effective’ size of classes and teaching around schools. There will be more people who will have to have a place of learning, an apprenticeship and an apprenticeship grant in the past. I challenge the Council of State to come back to Stortinget with feedback on the degree and plans of county councils to offer exchange models, and in that case why they have not followed up the decision of Stortingen over a and a half years ago. Exchange models are one of the answers to motivate and meet demands on industry schools for which it is now proposed to open up in the new private school law. I also miss the introduction of the newsletter as an opportunity at all schools. So if we were to figure that out, it was said in the line change. I'm asking, what else are we going to figure out? There are schools offering this today. There shall be a mechanism for those who can successfully achieve lower levels of competence. It is disappointing that the government does not follow up and implement the Storting decision to introduce it from the autumn of 2015, which we have actually adopted. Let's not just talk about professional subjects in the same breath as dropout and lack of knowledge in young people. Rather, let us make political decisions and let young people see what opportunities open up if they choose a profession. Norway needs skilled workers in the future, and we need a lot of them. The centre is committed to helping to find solutions to the best possible way of delivering both primary and secondary education. We see that it was done gripped by the promise of knowledge, someone who is good, and someone who is bad. The fact that it was cut in the practical subjects and the arts is bad. That we have invested in early reading, writing and mathematics is good. But in the case of primary school, the government's investment is limited to the further training of teachers. Further training and qualification of teachers are well and good and a continuation of red-green policies, but it is important that the content of continuing training is of good quality. Now that we are dealing with this budget, there is reason to recall that the ordinary operation of all primary and secondary schools is not financed from the budget of this department, but directly by school owners, municipalities and county councils through appropriations financed from the budget of the Ministry of Local Affairs and Modernisation. The number of pupils per teacher, access to books and equipment, temporary budget, recruitment and qualified teachers, the use of strengthening measures in education, construction and indoor climate, camp schooling depend entirely on the level of the local economy. Swallow the most capable teacher is short if the basic staff at the school is too low and the operating budget has to endure strong cuts. The lack of compensation for impaired tax access and lack of free income means that the school budget will be put under local pressure. This will extend the quality work at school. The centre party fears that the result will be fewer teachers and thus larger classes, less time for the individual student and more difficult for the teachers to follow up on the individual. This is a development contrary to the need for early intervention in primary school. There is also a well-founded fear that this will push forward more school dropouts. In the story of Snekker Andersen, we hear a message of desire from the eunuchs who are not used to neither carpenters nor gifts. The little thug doesn't quite dare say what he wants, but eventually he whispers: spin-bass – a modest wish, President. Professional life is modest. Young school students who want to show that they are good practitioners are also. It's not their voice we hear the highest when the budgets are presented. That's why someone has to stand up for them. I hope they'll be heard soon. As can be seen from the correlation table in the option, it is actually the Left Party and the Centre Party that prioritise education the highest in the number of kronor of the respective budget proposals. The Central Party is strengthening the draft budget by over 1 billion. kr, and the Central Party and the Left have a different priority, but it may be surprising because many parties spend a lot of time talking about the importance of education. We want to do something about it. So in the end, I can't avoid mentioning that yesterday we had a big event when the peace prize was awarded. I bit my notice in some words that Malala said, and that were repeated in the evening post today. I want to tell them as a conclusion, sail if anyone has perhaps discovered that this year's theme is something other than the Peace Prize, that is, Prøysen. I want to end with: ‘The empty classrooms, the lost childhood, the discarded potential – had to end these things with us.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2736	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2739	The representative of Tingelstad Wøien has long spoken hot for professional subjects and for the need to increase the apprenticeship grant. Then she probably enjoyed the fact that in a short time the bourgeois parties have actually increased the subsidy by NOK 7 500. At the same time, I can remind her that in the eight red-green years, there had to be a financial crisis and an extraordinary package of measures so that you could at all say that you did anything to raise the apprentice's allowance. When you see today's setting, and the overall framework of the various parties to the knowledge field, I find that it must have been the Workers' Party and the SV that were the red-green brake blocks for the increase of the apprentice's grant. Could the representative Tingelstad Wøien confirm this? If not, what makes the Center Party first in opposition think it's worth betting on apprentices?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2746	The centre party has worked throughout its work in the red-green fraction, which cooperated in the red-green government, to increase the apprentice's grant. We think it's amazing that you've been able to increase your apprentice's grant, and we're supporting it. We have also confirmed, as you can see from our program, that we are going to increase the apprentice's grant. We also have other arrangements that we want to invest in. I think it's nice to increase the apprentice's grant, but I think it's a little disappointing that there are so small sums that the blue-blue government comes with when it comes to investing in the professions. I hope that there are more than I can talk the professions up, so that we can get a massive stake in it in next year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2751	The representative Tingelstad Wøien used most of his post to talk about professional subjects, and that's positive. The party of progress and the government, in line with the Centre Party, is concerned that we should have a high degree of flexibility and that different models from the exchange between training in enterprises and schools should be an alternative to regular vocational training. What I'm recording is that the Center Party spends far more money on advanced education now that they're in opposition, than they did when they were in position. Then my question is, what is the reason for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2758	We've created our alternative budget as the Center Party believes it's important to spend the money. We have a slightly different priority than the other red-green parties, but as the representative sees the sea, we want to give priority to secondary and primary education. Among other things, we have also contributed a grant of 100 million. kr extra to camp school, because we are tired of students around the different municipalities not getting to camp school. We have also spent a sum on compulsory work for everyone in high school, because we think it is important. We see it as important that the whole human being should be educated, not just what there are grades at school.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2763	The central party has now left behind a decade as an opposition party, after eight years in government, and when you're a small party in a majority government, it may not always be as easy to see what your own primary policy is in all areas. I have also noticed that the centre party is now talking a lot about professional subjects. I think that's very nice, because, as I mentioned in my post, it's one of the really big challenges that we have to take seriously. But I would like to hear a little about what the representative will present as the central party's main breakthrough in school and education policy in red-green cooperation, and whether there are any issues the centre party did not get through in their own government that they will now work for as an opposition party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2773	I think we got a good breakthrough in the red-green government within the school budget. Among other things, we received: throughput to launch the electoral profession – in good cooperation, but with thorough preparatory work – so we turn that off on our chest. We have also made a strong contribution to the introduction of the upper secondary education profession, which is a mini-professional subject, in which we believe that all high school students will be able to participate. We got the idea of producing a big message about the professions. We also supported the idea of providing a message about high school. So I think we have put good footprints in terms of the position of the practical subjects in the school. Then we had to wait for the evaluation of the Knowledge promise – we too – to see if the professions had benefited from the new reform, as it turned out they had not. Therefore, these decisions were taken in the context of the review of the notification. No. 20 for 2012–2013 last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2780	I allow myself again to ask the same question to the representative, because I did not register any answer to it. I think it is nice that the Centre Party prioritises primary schools, but it has very little to do with professional involvement in higher education. What I'm asking about then is simply: is there any change in society, or is there any change in the Central Party, which means that the Center Party will spend much more money on higher education? What is behind this?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2787	I don't want to say that camper schools or the work force have nothing to do with professionalism, because we are of the opinion that competence is more than the common subjects. It's about making people whole people. Camp school is important like that. Employment is important in this way. It's a mini-professional. It is necessary to prepare for the vocational subjects at secondary school. We have now submitted our alternative budget, as we believe that this money should be used. And then it's like, just like the representative Thorsen has experienced, that you can get a pass on something you want. But I have also been present when the representative Thorsen sjöl has admitted that she thinks that the budget was improved after working with the Left and Christian People's Party. We can say that we are going to fight further for the position of the professionals and the practical subjects when we become a government in 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2798	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2801	Knowledge and research are one of the main priorities of the alternative government budget of the Left. Research and education are important prerequisites for future jobs and well-being. To meet the environmental challenges and create values for the future, it is essential that we move on to the knowledge society. With today's oil price, we have to take seriously the transition we're going to make, and it's just knowledge that's the key to this transition. I think we can all agree that it's the teacher that's the most important single factor in school. None of us want our students to believe that 'east is west and five and two are nine' and then we need good teachers. For ‘they wear with fractional calculation and do not get it’, there is just a good teacher with skills in math that are needed. In the budget there is a historical commitment to the continuing training of teachers, which we in the Left are very pleased with. But when we talk about a teacher's vow, we can't forget all the thousands who work at school today, who don't have formal competence to teach in the subject they teach, they're so-called non-qualified. This is, of course, a very heterogeneous group, ranging from people with doctoral degrees who lack pedagogy to those with higher or lower degrees. These people are making an invaluable effort at school today, and then we must also ensure that these are given their up-to-date competence. We are therefore very pleased with the impact the Left gained in the negotiations with the government parties and the Christian People's Party, where it was put by 50 million. kr to a level of competence for this group. In the left, we are concerned with being versatile in terms of continuing education. Real science is important, but teachers who teach other subjects also need to update their knowledge. In recent times, there has been a special focus on English teachers, and in the alternative budget of the Left, we had set aside over 200 million. kr for further training of English teachers. Let me also mention the boarding schools. Their clear feedback to us was that they needed capital grants, and now at least it's set at 10 million. kr for that purpose in the agreement. I also believe that there is good reason to be satisfied with the commitment to higher education and research, although in the Left we would like to see an even more offensive budget in this area, more in line with our own alternative budget. This is a shift in the pace of research. There will be an increased effort in the area of 50 million after the agreement. kr additional to increased basic appropriations, to RBO, 10 mill. kr so that the research institute Uni Research in Bergen can participate in the basic funding scheme and in several scholarship positions. But there are two things in particular that I think there is reason to say ‘heisann and hopstrand and fallallera’ for in higher education and research, and that is that no tuition fee is introduced for foreign students and these 100 new scholarship positions. Let me start with the scholarship positions. In the alternative budget of the Left, we had 500 scholarship positions, but we're happy that we've had an impact on 100 new recruitment positions. In the last ten years, the university and higher education sectors have not been swept away with scholarship positions, even though the red-green government was given a report, demand for and the offer of scholarship positions in Norway up to 2020, where an estimated need is expected to be about. 400 new scholarship positions per year. I am especially pleased that 50 of these scholarship holders will be distributed between UiS, UiA and UiN. It is the three universities that are already receiving a lower share of basic appropriations compared to the established universities, and they are not allowed to participate in the so-called elite initiative, which is also an important part of this knowledge budget. But we can't just bet on international top researchers. We also have to build up ourselves, and these 100 scholarship positions are important in this way. As regards the tuition fee for foreign students, it is one of the most important wins for the Left in this budget. It's not really about the 80.5 million. kr that was originally cut in the sector, this is about the free principle. Now we once and for all in this ageing period have a unanimous increase that clearly states that it is not appropriate to charge international students to study at Norwegian state educational institutions. But the free principle is important not only for the sake of international students, but also for the long term not to be opened up to make payments from our Norwegian students, as we see has been the development of other European countries. Knowledge shall be free and accessible to all. The agreement also found rooms for several student homes, and in 2015 there will be grants for 2,000 new student homes. This is completely in line with the Left's programme, so in this area we feel that we have really delivered. I also record that the students are very satisfied with it, and I understand that. Today there are many press areas where it is difficult for students to find a place to live and in some periods almost impossible to find a good place to live at an affordable price. These 2,000 student homes will come along well, and it could also help to make the student economy a little better for even more students. In the Left, we've always been concerned with volunteering and of the importance of all the thousands of hours of work that are laid down for our society as we know it today. It was both important and right that the compromise be corrected in the proposed cut of the study associations. The study federations represent an innumerable number of volunteers operating within a wide range of offers — ranging from bundling to singing for young people with Down syndrome. And if you want to make a hat with veil and silky strand and dress with lace on the collar, there is certainly a price for it too. The exposure around this has been enormous, and it is thanks to a joint effort among many that this money has come into place again. It is a very important offer for those who make use of it, and a transfer of competences that is of great value to society as a whole. We in the left have always been friends of the high school movement, and we are still. Universities contribute to the diversity of educational and educational institutions in our society. There are many who have great benefits and great joy of a year in high school. We are therefore pleased that 10 months of study support is still being provided – which was actually introduced by the Bondevik II government in its time – and we are pleased that the national colleges can maintain their offer. Sometimes it's about a year off, and it's referred to in a negative way. For my part, I see that many people can have great benefit from such a year. It's like life has to take the time it takes, and knowledge you build up is never wasted. Some folk colleges focus on outdoors, some focus on horses, while others have ideas for new folk colleges to add something completely new. The SKAP in Mandal is such an example, which, with its creative profile, will be a good contribution to the flora of higher education institutions. I hope that with this budget we will not talk about cuts in the higher education sector anymore, but rather start thinking ahead on behalf of and together with the higher education institutions. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for very good cooperation, not least I would like to thank the leader, Trond Giske, for coming back from his leave and guiding us through the levitation with steady and good hands.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2833	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2836	I would like to give tribute not only to the speaker, for she is probably the one today who has managed to get most words into 10 minutes, but to the Left and Christian People's Party for having corrected many of the cuts the government proposed. The same was true last year, and there is hardly any government council that has had its draft budget reworked as thoroughly as this. However, we can remain in the same situation until next year, when the budget is being discussed. The Left and Christian People's Party must once again take new rematches, once again correct the mistakes of last year – in the case of public high schools, educational associations, scholarships, school money, etc. etc. – with the uncertainty it brings to those concerned. My question to the Left is: have the Christian People's Party and the Left now received a guarantee from the government or the Minister of Knowledge that the time of the fighting is over, and that the cuts – those you fought back – are not proposed again?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2845	In the Christian People's Party, they're used to going on bass. I'm from Randaberg, so I'm also used to going on bass. What's fun about bazaars is that you sometimes win, and once you win, it's your win, and then you don't expect to have to return it after one year. The same is true of this budget. It is clear that the Left and Christian People's Party has received significant breakthroughs and significant victories in the comparison with the government, and we assume that there will not be repeated rematches about it until next year, because until next year we have new ambitions – and great ambitions – on behalf of the schools that we want to get in. So I look at this budget just as a start on what we're going to do in the next budgets that come.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2852	The Progress Party and the Left – and the representative of Nybø – agree that public schools are an important part of our education system, but we agree less that the school team should have State subsidies to operate short-term courses, where most participants are between 40 and 70 years old. It is important to stress that neither the Advance Party nor the Government will prevent schools from offering short courses. Some of the card courses offered today are study orientated abroad. This competes with other operators that do not receive State aid. There are also two public high schools running senior courses. They offer courses to business and have received large customers such as Statoil and Avinor. As the representative knows, it is often the price that is essential for the award, and others, often small private providers, do not have the opportunity to match the offer offered by these two schools with State aid. What is it that makes the Left want to maintain support for short courses, which is so clearly distorting to Norwegian business?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2861	First, I want to thank you for the question, because I think this is one of the things that the Left and Christian People's Party has really had a discussion with the government about, and I'm glad that we won through. When the government's proposal was put forward, there were quite a lot of reactions from the public schools to this, and we got a lot of feedback that this cut, even if you really thought it could hit the short courses, would get quite significant for the public schools as a whole. One thing is that someone actually had to lay down, but others would also experience a dramatic downturn purely economically. So I'm very happy that we got fixed in it. Then we probably have – the Left and the Government parties – a slightly different view of knowledge, because we don't think of knowledge as something that just needs to be directed towards study scores and formal skills. The education, the knowledge that you get through these card courses, is very important to those who are involved, and I'm very happy that we're maintaining that offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2870	I heard the representative Giske mentions the influence of the Left on the budget that it was drawn very much to the left. I've also heard a number of workers' party politicians chatter with the Left by saying that in three hours they could agree with themselves if what we spent together a few weeks agreeing on. Could the representative elaborate on what she thinks about such a characteristic?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2876	You have to be able to hear both from one side and from the other when you are in such a situation as the Left has done in connection with this budget. What we noticed, of course, in the eight years it was a red-green majority, was that the desire to cooperate with the Left was not very great in that time's government parties. I think maybe I can say so that I wonder if we in the left over the eight years got a pass on one of the suggestions we made. Everything that comes from the Left is not always quite top-notch – we must all admit it – but that no more than one proposal would have reason to agree with the Left when the Workers' Party was put in government, I think it's a little strange. I record that the Workers' Party is very interested in working with the Left now. I understand that they are, but we are so pleased with the cooperation we have with the government parties and hope that it will continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2883	The draft budget shows that the Left and Blue parties seem to have found each other in the priority of research. In the field of non-formal education, however, it is worse, as the representative has been involved. Like the Center Party, the Left proposes much more education than the government does. The left got added to a few hundred million on the draft budget that had been presented. I would like to ask the representative: why did you not then choose to give priority to 11 months of study support? Will the Left accept a new draft budget – without proposing the introduction of 11 months of study support?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2890	It is true that the Left and Government parties have now had good cooperation, but the Left and Center parties have also had good cooperation with regard to the note-writing in this process. As far as 11 months of study support is concerned, the Left has it within its alternative state budget. We are followers of eleven months of study support. Then it is that when you go into a debate, you get a pass for something, and something doesn't get a pass for it. The students themselves have prioritised eleven months of student support and student housing alike. This time we got a pass for student homes. I see that they are very happy about it. We are also very pleased that we can now deliver 2,000 student homes. The students have increased purchasing power with this budget, but I don't think we should leave it with that. I think we should have bigger ambitions on behalf of the students. If we get leverage next year, it's impossible to say now, but that we're going to fight for this even in next year's budget, I'm pretty sure.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2899	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2902	I would like to talk about – inconclusive – knowledge in my article, I want to come back to, among other things. research and other questions later in the debate. Education is not a prelude to life, it's life itself, pronounced the American philosopher and great scholastic theorist John Dewey. For Dewey, the goal of education was to find the critical and creative point in man, so that it itself would be able to acquire the knowledge and learning it needs in a constantly changing society — throughout life. Therefore, all education had to be based on the interests, activities, needs and lives of the elephants. As otherwise in society, the school should be able to challenge the whole human being, practical, aesthetic and theoretical. The sphere had to be associated with society around, an extension of the ordinary life. Dewey's progressive schooling contrasts strongly with the instrumental schooling, where there is one universal, one proper way to teach, where there is one set of skills that is the goal, one set of knowledge, where the student is considered an empty ship to be filled with ballast. The instrumental view of education is according to Dewey anti-pedagogical. It gives very little learning and enhances social differences because school means less, and homes mean more. Dewey's progressive view of education has had a major impact, but what has characterized the United States in recent decades is the opposite. Test culture in American education has become a parody of instrumental learning and has led the Obama administration to take initiatives to change. As Obama himself said recently, ‘Too many teachers field they had no choice but to teach to the test.’ Fortunately, we're not as far away from Dewey's schooling here in Norway. We have a purpose paragraph in the school that is very similar to John Dewey's thinking, and the sitting government has not yet tried to change. It says, among other things:\t\t You can change the settings ‘Students and learners shall develop knowledge, skills and attitudes to master their lives and to participate in work and community life. They shall derive creative pleasures, commitment and exploration.’» Unfortunately, even with such a beautiful purpose paragraph, the most dominant development is also in Norwegian school the instrumental schooling. Today, Norway is involved in most of the international tests available. We have received national tests, student surveys, countless forms of evaluation and reports. And especially in recent years, right-wing municipalities have strong driving forces for more and more tests and reports. The total amount of reporting, tests and measurements carried out by so many different actors takes the school away from its original purpose and leads politicians and bureaucrats to an excessive degree of detailed management of everyday life in the school. Measurement and weighing are strong instruments that cannot demonstrate a positive effect on learning and development. On the other hand, we know that it streamlines teaching, weakens pupils' adaptation, and weakens the teacher's professional role. The Sandefjord uprising illustrates that very point well. Marius Andersen and Joakim Bjerkely Volden refused to check on the half-year assessments that Sandfjord municipal government commissioned all teachers to fill in in 2012. At first they were threatened to get fired, but after intense media debate and full support from the other teachers and parents, the local government was fully retreating. Teachers won. As one of the heroes of Sandefjord said to the magazine Education: «These forms are perceived as character systems. The check box shows only fragmented parts, and the leveling box puts the students in the booth: you're bad, and you're good. The students and parents are concerned about the crosses and not what the students have learned. We want to be respected for our professional judgement and cannot do anything that we believe is professional error and does not lead to motivation for learning." Unfortunately, Sandfjord-saka is not unique. Oslo has gone further and produced own Oslo tests with twice as many mandatory tests as in non-resident municipalities. For the purposes of paragraphs 1 to 7, the class of children in the Oslo School shall pass through approximately: 350 tests. In a chronicle that created a big debate, Nohre-Walldén told of the daughter who in the fifth grade is rated according to a whole of 127 concrete learning goals throughout the school year. Many other municipalities have introduced, or are considering introducing, similar types of systems. I'm afraid Oslo is a role model. The Sandefjord uprising was in many ways the starting point for this year's great teacher rebellion against KS's desire to control more of the teacher's working hours. Here, too, the teachers won, but with a bitter-sweet result asking for new blows in the years to come. This year's various uprisings in the school have in common that all are opponents of the instrumentation of the school, of learning and of the teacher's profession. The knowledge policy in this room must be linked to the pedagogics of classrooms. We cannot pursue a knowledge policy that is directly contrary to the teachers' perception of good learning. We should reduce municipal and state standards on how education should be conducted. We should introduce no more, but less streamline formation. SV therefore calls for a training policy where there is a clear distinction between the role and responsibilities of policy and the role and responsibilities of teachers. We want a new balance between too much policy interference and no policy interference. This must be based on a deeper, common understanding of what learning is, on which we can build knowledge policy further. SV choose to build on the tradition of Dewey. Being able to bike, hit nails, read and use pi is all just the result of learning. The way of understanding is learning. Therefore, learning is not a result or a skill. Learning is a process, a creative process. There are direct similarities between the great discoveries in world history and the small learning jumps. They follow the same principle. Understanding something and discovering something is essentially the same thing. That means that the students are in a creative process when they learn, and that means that the profession of learning is a creative profession. It is right here — in the meeting between teachers and students — that one should put the effort into Norwegian school. All measures leading to weakening this meeting, streamlining processes and removing attention, we need to go through critically. In the SV's proposal for a budget, we do just that. We propose to reduce the test pressure and detail management in Norwegian schools, national and local authorities. In order for the teaching to really take place on the premises of each individual student, in order to realize the progressive schooling on adaptive training, we propose to several teachers in the school, through the introduction of a staffing norm. More students in the school will want more people to go back to the teacher's profession. The research carried out by the Education Association shows that it is precisely a time pressure in the school that leads to people leaving the profession. They point to almost 40,000 teachers who have left the profession – with the same type of foundation. We thought it was time that there was now a mobilisation among the teachers to introduce a resource standard in the school. Furthermore, we propose to strengthen all support functions in the school, so that the whole human being is taken care of, through a strong upgrading of health stations and school health services. We suggest a more varied school, with more physical activity, greater emphasis on the practical and aesthetic. We suggest introducing fruit and green for all stages, as well as bread for the very least, because we know how important nourishment is for learning and for people's health and to smooth out social differences. We are notifying you of proposals to extend the school day. Today, all the elephants are much of a day at school, but half of the time they are at the SFO, which is a very variable and expensive supply. So in the first place, we want to extend the school day from four to six hours for one to four. steps, where time is spent on physical activity, food and homework. This will greatly reduce the need for homework. It is a great paradox that some of the most important things in the school, task work, are sent to lecture families with very different possibilities to contribute – in the evening. In this year's budget, SV suggests that a total of 4.3 billion bets bets. kr more on kindergarten, schooling and research than the blue-blue government suggests. That's about the same amount as the government proposes in cut taxes on wealth for the richest in the country. For SV, knowledge is Norway's wealth – which we want to invest in. I'll deal with the suggestions that SV is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2963	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2968	Under the red-green government, we experienced the growth of time in state budgets, but we did not see the government lifting higher education and research at a time when there was room to make real priorities. This also applies to study support. Following the loss of the elections in 2013, the government submitted a cut-off budget proposing 11 months of study support with budgetary impact from 2015, and this proposal would have a budgetary impact of 586 million in 2015. kr. Now we are dealing with the budget for 2015, and I cannot see that SV has introduced an increase similar to that proposed by the Swedish Government in the 2014 budget, in this budget that we are discussing now. How can the students be confident that SV means what they say, when they do not spend the money for student support that they said they should do, when they lost the election in 2013?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2975	I'm a little surprised at the question. When introducing additional student support, which lasts for 11 months, it will only be effective for the academic year in which the students enter. So, if we adopt it now, it will have an effect for 2016, the eleventh month, which will end the academic year. The normal way to start a step-up of the study support is just to announce it and make the necessary promises this year, and then it only takes effect in June 2016. That would be exactly the same thing as the blue-blue government would do if they had thought to suggest this. I actually thought it was a sensational fact that an attack party that had actually proposed it, for something that the sitting government did not intend to propose.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2980	It is always with great zeal and enthusiasm that I read the SV's alternative proposals and in particular their alternative state budget. There are many unrelated comments that I hope the representative Knag Fylkesnes can now clarify for Stortinget. My questions are mainly about SV's new congstanke, i.e. the whole-day school. While SV in its alternative state budget writes that the full-day school is the largest public health reform of our time, because it gives time for physical activity in school, the committee notes that physical activity can be well organized in each school with the current number of hours. I'd like to know which of these options SV really thinks is right. Then it's also the way that all-day school requires more teachers. In 2015, SV accurately calculated this to be 2,789 teachers. What kind of hat should the representative conjure up these teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2987	It is possible that the representative has been a little too eager when he read SV's alternative budget. We do not propose all-day schooling in 2015. We'll notify you that we'll propose this at the next budget. This is simply because the logic is like this: we first want to set up a resource standard for the school. It makes it much easier for teachers to really meet each student. We also know that this will work recruiting for the teaching profession. The next step is to extend the school day, and then we have announced two hours extra of 1-4. step, from four hours to six hours. We know that the students are already in school at this time, but they're at the SFO, which is a very variable offer. What if we could fill that time with food, physical activity and task work, homework, rather than being sent home to a busy everyday life, with parents, etc. to help with the homework in the evening?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e2992	I think it's nice to record that the representative Knag County supports the Christian People's Party's commitment to increasing teacher's density. I also record that he has today chosen to make a proposal for the Stortinget which is similar to what the Christian People's Party has previously promoted for Stortinget, and for which Knag Fylkesnes himself is the case rapporteur. SV has relaunched the idea of the full-day school and is taking it far on the road for the researcher to call an outsourcing of childhood, where the public is essentially to take responsibility for the child’s education. But we know that engaged parents are one of the most important success factors for children to succeed in school, both professionally and socially. Should we not then work to get more parents more involved in children's schooling and what's going on at school, so that even those who have parents who are too poor to follow up today will be more on the track, instead of adding up to a policy where parents are far on the way out of the picture and all are left to the school and the public?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3000	I am personally strongly critical and skeptical of the institutionalized way of thinking about society. I mean, I'm a critic who doesn't frame this case. The fewer of the students are only four hours in school. Not many parents are waiting for them at home. Today's short school day is actually adapted to a set time where one was at school for four hours, went home, there was mother and helped with the homework, and then there was two o'clock, and then a dinner. It's not like that anymore. In most families, both are at work, and students are initially at SFO much of the day. Getting the time better with physical activity, bread, etc., as well as task work, I think I'll create a clearer distinction between what's school's job, responsibility and role, and what's family.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3005	The left and the left share many values around what's going on in adult education, democracy understanding, etc., and we see the importance of our society being thoroughly trained in how our democracy works, how we exercise influence, whether it's happening through, for example. higher education institutions, all of which have been involved, or associations of studies, in that respect. Now I see that the representative is making a number of proposals today that are certainly good proposals from the SV side, but I have to say that I am a little curious about it, because now we have had quite a number of meetings in the committee where we have discussed this budget, without the proposals being presented there. Part of the understanding of democracy is about how to get an impact on your proposals, and then you have to cooperate with others. I wonder if the representative thinks it might be an idea to ask, for example. The study association on whether they can make a course on how to get an impact on their proposals and whether the representative will participate in such a course.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3012	Yes, if the representative is able to take the big round to start a course with the Student Association and make it clear to people like me, I will do so, but I doubt whether the representative will do so. But joke to side. If the representative just wants to take a look at the proposals: one is about an area that I am very surprised that the Left does not stand behind in the form of a note, and it is about turning the effort on research from research that aims to extend the oil age to renewable research. It seemed surprising to me because, in my opinion, the Left has been a party that has agreed with SV that we need a great transformation of the Norwegian economy. Then it must also have meaning for research. One did not support it in a note form in the budget, but SV would like to raise that proposal also in the hall to see if there are others in this room who want to turn the research from petro-related research into renewables.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3019	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3022	Already through the high quality and content kindergarten, this government is imposing a force for everyone to get a good start in life, but it belongs to another committee – although not really another field of action. The basic wall in school is strong, meaning that even if we've been through a few weeks with an uplifting – and important – bullying debate, it's like nine out of ten students thrive at school, and even if it doesn't always work like that when you read the media, nine out of ten teachers also thrive. So we have dedicated employees, we have a lot of people burning for school, and we have students who, in general, feel safe. These are important values that we're going to build on to strengthen the Norwegian school. Nevertheless, we have a big challenge, a challenge we're not getting rid of, and that's that too many students are following, while too many students don't get extra challenges, even if they need it. And this provides the basis for a high drop-out from high school, which has stuck to the same level over the last 20 years: Of those who have the average character 2 from primary school, it's only 12 pst. who complete secondary school in normal time. How are we to ensure ‘that no one goes in the trap, but is fit for it’? Well, by focusing on the core of the knowledge school, that is, that the students should learn more, and the teacher is the key person for the students to do so. Year after year, teachers’ organisations asked for a post-secondary education grant, and they did so with good research evidence. Recently, there was probably a report from England, which stressed that one of the most important things for students to learn more is the teacher — the teacher as a good educator, the mediator, and the teacher as a professional, a good teacher who not only has a good understanding of the substance she teaches but also understands how the students approach the drug and how misunderstandings can arise. If a teacher's expertise is below a certain minimum level, this may be an obstacle to students' learning. It can't be. There are many good teachers in Norwegian school who may not have depression, but that they can be even better with professional depression, according to researchers, there is little doubt. About 20 pst. of the math teachers in school have no study credits in mathematics, the whole 57 pst. by English teachers do not have study credits in English, and about one in seven Norwegian teachers have no depression in Norwegian. I believe that an important challenge for Norwegian school is to ensure that all children in Norway, and all parents who send their children to school, are sure that the teacher they meet also has depression in the subject in which they teach, as far as the basic subjects are concerned. It is not the teachers' fault that this has happened, it is the result of policies and priorities, and it turns out that we have not taken responsibility for expanding continuing training in the sector and for developing skills. So there's a connection between the academic depression of the teachers and the knowledge of the students. That's why it's a political responsibility to fill this gap, and it's a responsibility the government and the majority of the population take. Together with a 5 year master's education for teachers, it will provide a strong basis for the knowledge school of the future. In the first year we've been sitting, we've tripled the commitment to further education of teachers. In concrete terms, the increase in 2015 is 1500 places, which means that about 5,000 teachers can take on further training from the autumn of 2015. The budget agreement provides for an additional 50 million. to a new level of competence for non-qualified teaching staff at school. That's good. In addition, the budget agreement has set at 200 million. kr for increased teacher density of 1–4. steps. This is also a proposal that we, together with the majority parties, should work to put into practice. At the same time, we also need to focus our efforts, especially on the real subjects, where we need a boost, both because the real subjects are one of the areas where we've worn out for many years, it's one of the areas where many students say they're struggling, and it's among the subjects -- especially mathematics -- that most of them are ironing out of higher education. In 2015, we will promote a real science strategy, and the development of so-called real science communities will be a central tool. But students can not only have school contents, they must also have good school buildings. Not least, they must have a place to have swimming lessons, which have now been strengthened by both the government's proposal and the budgetary conciliation. Therefore, we also increase the interest compensation scheme for investments in school and swimming facilities. Strengthen the scheme by 3 billion. kr in new loans that receive interest compensation in 2015, which means that some of the queue can be removed. Then good teachers must have time for their core tasks. In 2009, the so-called ‘time thief selection’, led by Kirsti Kolle Grondahl, came. Five years later, there is little evidence that the report was followed up in such a good way that those working in school see that the number of time thieves is greatly reduced. The cry to do something has rather become stronger and stronger years a year. We follow up, and we announced today a start with concrete changes to reduce bureaucracy in school, and more will also come. We're also giving priority to something down when we give priority to something. Last year we chose the cultural school class in the school leisure system. I now see that there is a broad consensus on the Stortinget that it was a proper priority. This year, we have chosen to reduce the baselines in order to target the scheme against those who have the least. Here, too, we have received broad support, and that is good. Professionals need a boost. For the current year, the budget increased by 114 million. kr. It will continue this year. The apprenticeship grant, which stood still for so many years, has now increased twice in a row. We continue to stimulate several exchange models and the testing of practical letters, we further strengthen the link between professional and working life, but we are not finished! There is a need for a further uplift in the years to come — not least in order to increase the number of apprenticeship places. It's important. Higher education is a pillar of knowledge policy, and also here the government shows that we are prioritizing. Higher education will get a real growth of 2.6 pst. – 31 B.C.E. kr. But it's not the case with good knowledge environments, or good scientists, that they grow on top of the Lauvåsen, and that you can just find a straw and put them on. There is also a need to invest in quality, and efforts must be made to develop world-leading professional environments. That's what the government is doing -- through 100 million. to strengthen our best university environments, through a record investment in research and development, and, of course, through incentive schemes against Horizon 2020 to bring more of the European money back to Norway. And once again, a knowledge-friendly majority on Stortinget has further strengthened the arrangements, among others. through 50 million. kr to the result-based redistribution in the UH sector. In addition, there is targeted investment in professional training, for nurses and engineers, for whom we are in need. At the same time, we present a long-term research plan, a long-term plan that has been called a milestone, among other things. by the Academics – and why? Well, unlike previous plans, it's not just words, it's not just priorities, it's not just air; it's concrete, binding escalations and efforts. We also show that in this year's budget, where a record share of gross domestic product is spent on research and development. We also give notice of concrete escalations, among other things. in 500 new recruitment positions. In our draft budget, there were 50 new ones, and through the conciliation with the knowledge-friendly majority on the Stortinget – with the Christian People's Party and the Left – a total of 150 new posts have been created in 2015. I see that also parts of the opposition have come after, that they believe that the level of government was not as good as the majority level, and that they have therefore also put it into their budgets, and that is good. With the agreement, the investment in student housing has never been greater. We added funds to 200 new ones – now there are 2,000 new student housing companies that can contract construction in 2015. The government will also, for the second consecutive year, increase the basic support for students in addition to the expected price increase. We also propose to improve the disease prevention system by allowing the grant to be combined with sickness benefits. There were reactions last year when we said that we wouldn't go for 11 months of student support, but the budget and the budget agreement show that we're giving concrete increases, yes, that's actually the second largest increase in student purchasing power in ten years. The biggest one came last year. It's funny that 11 months of study support is always one year away. Yes, it is almost like putting up a bottled piece on the slope, which everyone can smell, but no one is allowed to eat! Overall, the budget — and budgetary conciliation — is a forward-looking budget to strengthen Norway and take one step closer to the knowledge nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3063	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3066	I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party was able to see through the budgetary conciliation for our early efforts through increased teacher's density, despite the fact that the government parties were initially critical of such a commitment. I also think it is very nice to record that several representatives from the government parties are now bringing this forward as a good bet in the agreement. One of the objections to this was in advance that there are not enough teachers. Then the government's great commitment is more continuing training for teachers. It also implies that many of the teachers who are currently trained and who have worked in school for many years have to go back to school to be qualified to continue their work. I fully agree that we should have good, competent teachers, but I wonder if the Council of State has thought about who should teach the children while these already educated teachers are back on the school bench, and how to avoid becoming unskilled temporary workers responsible for teaching.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3073	Thank you for the question. I just want to repeat what I have always said when I have been asked about teacher density in this room – and otherwise, for that matter – and it is that I am very much for more teachers. I also believe that teacher density and classroom size are not insignificant. It's also good research that says it has an effect. The discussion has not really been whether it is good with more teachers or good with e.g. what Dovre Municipality has done, where one has an ambition to reduce special education and then strengthen regular training. I think that's very good. The discussion has simply been whether it is right to have a national norm to achieve this. We have been sceptical about that, for example. because it may result in a resource shift. But I'm absolutely sure we're going to find good ways to spend the 200 million, in close cooperation with the majority parties on the Stortinget. Then we'll give money to subsidize the state. Many schools solve this on their own with their own staff. Someone's got to take in some temporary workers. Then also for those temporary workers who are inside the 50 million who are not qualified, they will come along well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3082	It is good pedagogy to start with what is positive: the research budget is approved and also higher education. But in the case of initial training, there's one single bet. It's continuing training for teachers, of which there's a broad consensus, 143 million. kr. The net increase in primary and secondary education is 98 million. kr. This means that parts of continuing education are paid by cut in other sectors and that the rest of primary and secondary education have a net cut. It's interesting that it could be called a historical bet. All the ministers of knowledge are fighting for the knowledge budget, going to the budget conference, fighting for money. However, the Minister of Knowledge has received exceptionally little left: nothing for early work, nothing for teacher density, nothing for quality improvement in primary school, but continuing education. The phrase says: But all of a sudden I got in, because do you know what she said? And it's Siv Jensen. ‘Now I have no more money, but I’m just as happy’.’ Was that the answer given to the Minister of Knowledge at the Budgetary Conference when he asked for initial training?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3093	Thank you for the question. It's good pedagogy to start with what's positive, and then you can say that what's positive is that the biggest cut we have is a cut that the Workers' Party supports. I can't see that you suggested it in position, but in opposition you support our big cut, which is on base. We're targeting those who need it the most from before. We give more to those who have the least, and less to those who don't. So there's something absurd -- it's perhaps unparliamentary to say -- there's something strange about the way you're calculating. First of all, you're calculating a cut for which the Workers' Party is. I'm glad. Thank you for that. But then you take out the bet on the teachers. It's like it's a really bad bet on the football team if you take out all the money you spend on the football players, or it's a really bad bet on the symphony orchestras if you take out everything we spend on the musicians. That doesn't make sense. That the Workers' Party supports one of our cuts is otherwise good, but otherwise the Workers' Party's budget harvest has been kind of tango for one, through different positions. On the question of outlaw grant, I think the Workers' Party has had three different positions during a short budget harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3104	I suspect that when the budget ended up using one hundredth of what was used for tax cuts, for basic training, the Minister of Knowledge went home and thought: One hundredth – for an impact, for an enormous amount I have received on this knowledge budget, compared to what is used for tax cuts. That's the truth about the priority. So to another matter that the minister of knowledge mentioned in his statement, this so-called long-term plan for research and higher education. There is a part about research, and a lot of it follows up the research report, but higher education is mentioned on pages 12 and 13 under point 2.2.2 and forms almost one whole page. This which I keep here, on the other hand, is the long-term plan for the transport sector, the NTP. It is 340 pages, while this tile – the long-term plan for research and higher education – is 40 pages. It says more about the E16 between Eggemoen and Jevnaker than it says about higher education in the long-term plan for the next ten years. Is it a mistake that there is a long-term plan for higher education here, or is it believed that the long-term plan – 10 years of higher education – is one A4 page in a tile of a notification?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3114	The long-term plan covers both research and higher education, and one of the priority areas there are, for example: bet on world-leading environments. What is it? Yes, education. Research and scholarship positions are both part of the education system and an investment in basic infrastructure. As the representative Giske, who has had this job before, also knows, some of the most important research institutions in Norway are universities. I am a little surprised that the representative Giske says that this is our national transport plan, all the time the previous government – and they should have the credit for it – actually initiated the long-term plan and repeatedly stressed that this should not be a kind of national transport plan. What remains, however, is that this government has not only delivered a long-term plan, it has delivered a long-term plan called a milestone. It is certainly not perfect, but it contains concrete, binding escalations – something I cannot see that any previous government has been given.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3123	At first, I want to say that I am happy to hear that the Council of State admits that the investment in the profession is still a start, and I hope that the government can change its rhetoric and stop talking about a ‘professional boost’. That being said, the government proposed to cut its budget to all non-formal competences. Adult training, public higher education schools and student associations were dramatically curtailed, and in addition, the government proposes needs-tested housing grants, and that there should also be a need-to-be test for apprentice pay. In the opinion of the Centre Party, this is a cut to show that the government is not concerned with social and geographical cohesion. I also think that the government has a tighter definition of competence, namely that competence is what gives study scores or grades. What develops character is not so important. Does the Council of State consider that only formal competence is of value and deserves state support? If not, in what way does the Council of State wish to strengthen areas that cannot be measured in grades and study scores?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3134	The answer to the question is no, I do not mean that. And a good illustration of that is e.g. The 790 million. kr, if I don't remember completely wrong, we use in public schools, which we also suggested to use. So our cut in public high school was not a cut in the core business, that's the whole year's public high school, primarily aimed at young people or younger people, who are going to take a educational and exciting year that doesn't give a grade, but that can give a lot of other things. I think that's a good investment. I also think it is important that we maintain a great deal of support for the study federations. I think that there are opportunities to sharpen that support a little more – just as I thought it was a basis for sharpening support for public higher education schools a little more. But we're going to continue to support this. And then it's just to say that we now have a situation where it's no longer the case that the budget is determined in crinkle hooks in the department alone. The size is back. This budget, with the support of the Christian People's Party and the Left in the Grand Duchy, will be adopted when the majority has finished negotiating.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3143	It's been talking about bazaars here before today, and there's been talk about student associations and public high schools. As I also said, we in the Left and Christian People's Party are not used to having to return the prize after we have won, but we don't wrap it into grey paper and put it on a cake. On the contrary, we are proud of the victories we get. And even though evil tongues are going to have it so that the Council of State is struggling a little with fractionation and not getting it done, there's one thing I have full confidence in the Council of State, and that's that he understands the political game that's going on around a budgetary settlement. And now, in the Left and Christian People's Party, we've got the student federations through, and we've got the public schools through. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State understand that he will not have a majority for a budget if this is not in place next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3150	I guess it's not "bad tongues" that should make me work with fractional calculations – it's well documented on national television, so it's not just gossip in a remote hook. That being said, it is clear that we are dealing with what is decided by the majority parties. I think it's a little important to stress that point, because although the Right Party and the Advance Party are in government, we have a unique situation in which we now have an obliging cooperation agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left. So this isn't going to happen at random. It's not random every year which games we're going to go to. We have committed ourselves together to providing a budget, and the Christian People's Party and the Left have committed themselves to supporting the government, but of course also to stand firm on their matters and to negotiate. I think that's a good situation, not least for Knowledge Norway, because you've got a knowledgeable majority on Stortinget. I think that's good. The representative asks if I can guarantee that there will never be any rematches again. I may not be able to guarantee 100 pst., but I have seen clearly what the majority of people have thought about both student associations, public schools and tuition fees.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3159	In order for researchers to have the freedom to really think freely and to be the breakers we want in our society, it is important that they have security in the job. There has been a rather unison agreement here in the house that we all want to get the use of the temporary positions in the academy alive. However, the government recently announced that they would like to extend the right to use temporary employment. And I've also noticed that one has changed the reasoning a little bit in the budget as well when it comes to how a mentions a reduction in temporary settings. My question is: can the Minister guarantee that we will not see increased use of temporary positions in higher education, in research, in the institute, etc. in the future, but will it be reduced, as the plan was?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3166	Now we're talking about three different laws here: the changes that are now presented by the Ministry of Labour, the Labour Environment Act, the State is dealing with the Civil Service Act, and so is a university and higher education law. It can be said, in a slightly simplified way, that there have been stricter rules for temporaryity in the private sector than in the state. There is probably also one of the reasons why temporaryity has been somewhat greater in universities and colleges, besides the fact that there is of course a sector such as the United Kingdom. has a lot of research on assignments of shorter duration. I don't give guarantees that I'm not 100 pst. I am sure that can be honoured, so I cannot give such a guarantee, but what I can say is that what the previous government did by inserting the instructions in the letters of assignment that you should have the temporary period down, seems to have worked. We still have it, and if the temporary period does not continue to go down, we need to consider measures to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3173	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3176	The Labour Party is pleased that there is a broad political consensus to step up the funding for research and development. The appropriations in the last few years have increased steadily and are continuing in this budget. Under the previous government, public research appropriations increased by 6.7 billion in real terms. kr, a real growth of 32.1 pst. from 2005 to 2013. The growth this year and last year reinforces this picture, and the Workers' Party believes it is a right priority. A historian would hardly use an inconsistency concept as a ‘historical budget’, but perhaps rather point to a steady historical development, which continues with this budget. The commitment to internationalisation and, in particular, funding for the EU is good and absolutely right. A more active participation in research internationally will raise the quality of Norwegian research. However, the road to Brussels may seem long. And not only that, for some people, it probably also feels like that the road is bumpy, hey where it goes. It bumps and dumps in our box." Because it’s not enough just to pay a ticket, we need to support, push and help, so that more people arrive on time, or say otherwise, so that more people get into the competition for the funds. Therefore, the increase to the STIM-EU is a right priority. However, the challenge of participating in international programmes with a high level of funding is that although research funding is increasing, many research communities around Norway will not notice this growth. One of the reasons for this is that growth is concentrated in some areas, in particular the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Food, and in particular the activities of the Research Council. The Ministry of Oil and Energy’s appropriations are at the same level as in 2014, adjusted for price and wage growth, and the other departments are in effect reduced in research and development appropriations. The budget thus goes in the opposite direction to what the research report clearly stated, namely that each department must take responsibility for developing its own knowledge and competence in its field of competence. When it is cut into research funds for the Ministry of Defence, agricultural research, climate research, etc., it is unfortunate. Something is corrected in the agreement with the Stortinget, but that the other government councils are unable to give more priority to research, but instead of cutting to research, the Minister of Knowledge should worry. The appropriations allocated to universities and higher education institutions shall go to both research and education. The institutions themselves shall give priority to this in their own budget. But they are stimulated by different instruments, especially in research. Measures to promote the quality of education are, unfortunately, less. And in this budget, there's an additional commitment to research quality; I'm thinking about the 70 million. kr that are set to recruit top researchers from abroad to Norway, in excellent research environments. These funds are allocated in a way that violates the current funding principles. In general, institutions receive basic grants according to historical criteria, by publication score and by study production. In addition, all universities and higher education institutions may apply for funding in the EU and the Research Council's competitive arenas. This top research system is new and not searchable. Five universities are part of the scheme. The others had little opportunity to even be evaluated, although they may have brilliant research environments at their institutions. But the three new universities were still able to be included in the budget agreement here at Stortinget. Such a way of selecting specific environments based on a ranking of our universities and colleges in the first, second and third divisions, or A and B teams, as the Left’s representative Nybø commented on in the succession. This is done without discussion in large-scale messages or anchoring in Stortinget. It is also difficult to identify such categorisation in the long-term plan. So to the institutions' economy. How can it be that so many higher education institutions in the future — perhaps even at universities — are in a state of economic strain when the funds for research are increasing? There is a reduction of 140 million ‘debureaucratisation and efficiencies’. DKK to universities and 90 million. kr for the higher education institutions. In addition, some changes are made which, in sum, make the institutions fail to get out very well and that universities are favored. This has consequences. The Labour Party is concerned about the economy of the professional studies, in particular nurse, teacher and engineering training, which will provide society with many new candidates in the coming years. They need to improve the quality of education, they need to prevent apostasy, and it needs to strengthen research activity. Then it would have been a much better use of money to allocate this according to the political priorities and the societal challenges that are. This is not how this budget is going to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3193	This debate is very much about which items are going up, which items are going down, and who are the best of the parties to allocate money for good purposes. It is, of course, also part of a break-up and clarification of the options in Norwegian policy. However, let me start at a slightly different end, and perhaps a slightly more converging line than the committee chairman chose to start the debate with. Because although we disagree on many of the instruments, it is a unanimous increase that stands together on the importance of securing all people in Norway, regardless of social background, a good education. It is not just about the fact that high levels of knowledge in the population are important for the nation of Norway in an increasingly globalised world. No, it's primarily about giving people freedom, security and independence. Education is so important because the knowledge you have, no one can take away from you. What you've learned is just yours. The person who has knowledge also has a tool that can be used and that you can carry with you wherever you go. With knowledge, you have the independence and the freedom to control your life, and you have the security that you don't depend on others to feed yourself and yours. Therefore, education is also a very important defence against poverty, oppression and power concentration. With that as a hindrance, there's every reason to enjoy the knowledge budget we're going to adopt today. Although much is good in Norwegian school, we also know that despite good resource availability and many arrows pointing in the right direction, the students do not learn enough. We therefore need a policy for more people to learn more in school. So it's so that we can sit here and adopt goals, laws and appropriations. But we are not the ones who can implement the policy. If we're going to make sure that more students learn more in school, we have to bet on the knowledge workers who teach in the classroom every single day, fix the tests, follow up the students and talk to the parents. One of the most important public vows of the four non-socialist parties combined before the previous big shots was to bet on the factor that we know is most important for the students to learn more, namely the teacher. For too many years, the teachers had been waiting for the promise they had so long been asking for, that is, a continuing training promise. The previous government financed the increase in continuing training to a large extent by cutting back on training. To give more to one group by taking from the same group in another post is not to bet, it's to move. It's like losing his teddy bear and then just winning the same bear back on the bases -- the win goes up on the spin. Today, the government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, adopts a proposal to grant over 1 billion. SEK for continuing training of teachers. It's three times as much as the red-green granted in its last budget. The right does not think that more money automatically produces results. That's why it doesn't matter what the money is spent on. For us, it was clear both before and after the election that teachers should be given priority. Therefore, it is also with some surprise that I have registered that the Workers' Party has criticised the four cooperation parties for spending too much money and time on continuing training of teachers – that we simply give them too high priority in the public debate and in the budget. It is becoming clear why the bill for further training of some teachers under the previous government was funded by cutbacks in the training of some other teachers – it was not a tough priority that had to be made, it was a political choice. It had to be a new majority to secure the teachers' promise they've been asking for. I hope so, even in school. The right-wing Party government presented an offensive education budget, and when the four non-socialist parties sat down around a negotiating table to negotiate a settlement, the offensive education budget became even better. This is in stark contrast to a Workers' Party which, despite a 10 billion tax increase. Compared to the budget of the cooperative parties, the budget for education is less than that of the four parties. The few of us in the cooperation parties have a lot of firsthand knowledge of the inner life of the red-green government, but it's a picture of the rest cutting not being found in either the SV or the Center Party, but in the Workers' Party. After a round of negotiations that wasn't just jumping and jumping and twenty-hey and four parties sharing, we came up with a budget that we can proudly stand and adopt today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3229	Norway is a good country to live in, and Norway is a good country to learn. Equally right to education for both King Solomon and Jørgen Hatter have made us a forerunner in a world where education historically has been reserved for the few. Unfortunately, we also see many examples of this today. Although the right to education is equal to and we're at the top of the world in terms of the number of dollars spent at school, there's a little bit left before we can say that the results and achievements are in line with the resources we provide. It is a very good knowledge budget that will be adopted here today, and although it has become a cliché to say so, a good budget has become even better after the negotiations with the Christian People's Party and the Left. When we've said we're going to rust Norway for the future, knowledge is the most important component to get to it. Norway can never be the cheapest, but we can be the best, which we already are in many areas. At the same time, the government presented the long-term plan for research and higher education. It is an ambitious plan, which has reaped a lot of good things around the sector, among other things. by SINTEF, UNIO and the Academics. Although this plan is to be addressed in the new year, it may be worth dwelling on some of the content, as much is being followed up already next year's budget. By 2018, according to the government's proposal, 500 new recruitment posts will be created, 400 million. kr for infrastructure and incentive schemes for EU research – in particular Horizon 2020 – will be strengthened by 400 million. kr. The new Life Science Centre in Oslo and the upgrade of the Marine Technology Centre, Ocean Space Centre in Trondheim, are mentioned as the main construction projects. Already in 2015, the long-term plan is followed up by about 800 million. kr. Never have we been closer to the 1 p.m. target in public research appropriations. With a real growth next year of 4.5 pst. So we're going up to 0.93 pst. of GDP for research and development. Then it is worth remembering that during the previous ageing period, the average growth in research and development was as low as 2 pst. I am pleased that the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left have so strongly expressed that R & D is not only important, but absolutely essential for us to be able to transform Norway and realize the knowledge society. The investment in world-leading environments of 100 million. kr has gained criticism from several in this room. That's what I think is a pity, and it reminds me most of all of all about reverse countries. It is absolutely vital that some of our best environments are given the opportunity to become even better in competition with the great world of the wisest minds. It is necessary to pay extra attention to those who have already shown that they are well ahead in both national and international competition and knowledge arenas. The fact that this is met with criticism is at the expense of the critics, and I record that, in the absence of good arguments, it is claimed that it is the universities and the new universities that have to pay for the bet. Of course that's not right. I am glad that someone is ahead of their time, among others. NTNU, who is about to recruit John O’Keefe, the third Nobel Prize winner in medicine this year. Hopefully other institutions and environments will come up with this investment. In one of the comments of the opinion, the Committee of the Regions notes that ‘higher education is essential for building the country through new knowledge and highly skilled labour’. Of course, that's quite right, but if we put both of our feet on the ground and take a reality check, unfortunately not everything is pink. Norwegian students spend quite a few hours in the studies every week compared to other Nordic students. The drop-out rate is quite high, especially in some studies, the trade unions are often too small, and the structure is fragmented. The latter is well-lit by, among other things. NOCUT. I am pleased that the government is addressing these challenges, among other things. with better equipment for professional training, better university building and enhanced basic appropriations. It's a good start to improve the situation with respect to some of the concerns we see. As for the fragmented structure, I look forward with joy and anticipation to the big message of structure in higher education, and I think the Minister of Knowledge is quite right when he says that we have too many institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3249	Freedom of belief and life is a fundamental value in our society. A society based on fundamental human rights requires at the same time that we find ways to live with inequalities and contradictions. That's why I think it's important that we conduct a policy that facilitates dialogue across faith and life-seeking divisions. Dialogue builds on trust and supports democracy by providing the basis for a community of disagreements where different positions may be violated. The landscape of belief and life in Norway is characterised by increasing diversity, alongside a people's church that has long traditions and is still an important part of people's lives. In 2014, the community of faith and life outside the Norwegian Church will receive grants for a total of approx. 587 000 members, corresponding to 11,5 pst. by the population. The Norwegian Church has more than 3.8 million members. They make up 75 pst. by the population. More than 6 million people participated in religious services last year, plus 1.5 million visitors to different cultural events in the churches. The government wants a clear distinction between the state and the Norwegian Church. In the autumn, the Ministry, at the hearing, sent a proposal for amendments to the church law aimed at this end. The proposal follows up the Church Meeting’s request of 2013 to establish a national legal entity of the Norwegian Church. The priests and the members of the Council of Churches and the Councils of Bishops have been proposed to this legal entity, so that the employers' responsibility for them ceases. This will give a clear distinction between the state and the Church. The case is now being prepared for consultation in the Church Meeting in 2015. The aim is that the law and the budgetary implications should then be presented to the Stortinget and that the reform be implemented in 2017. I think it should continue to focus on achieving broad religious and political uprisings on the changes concerning the Norwegian Church. I noticed that the majority of the committee has gone in to grant 16 million. SEK in conversion funds to the Church in 2015. I see this as an expression of broad support for the direction of the church reforms to which the ministry refers. The government wants further independence from the Norwegian Church, and this is addressed as part of the work of a comprehensive law on religious and life-view societies. This is in line with the wishes of the Church Meeting. The recent consultations on reform proposals are important steps in this direction. The Norwegian Church shall be organised in accordance with democratic principles and values. The autumn of 2015 is the ecclesiastical election at the same time as the municipal and county elections. The government sees church elections as very important. Our proposal for a 76-million-dollar appropriation. kr to carry out the church elections in addition to the 5,5 million. kr that was provided in the revised budget for 2014 shall facilitate financial support for these elections. The Church must ensure commitment and dissolution, so that the elected bodies of the Church become representative of the members of the Church with democratic legitimacy. The church budget for 2015 is also a strengthening of efforts towards church buildings. The churches are perhaps among our most important construction works. The interest compensation scheme for church buildings will have an investment framework of 500 million. kr in 2015 as a result of the agreement, and a capacity of 2 million has been found. kr to secure, protected and protected churches. The interest-rate compensation scheme also applies to fire and theft protection, and I see it as important that the scheme be used as an incentive just to implement such safeguards. I am the Council of State responsible for the entire policy of belief and of life, and I will work to build a society where everyone knows that they belong regardless of religion or view of life, and where the fundamental respect for freedom of belief and freedom of life is just central.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3270	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3273	As the Council of State said, it is now announced that the next step in the state–church reform will be taken, and that the Norwegian Church will now be established as a national legal entity. This means, among other things: that Kirka takes over large-scale management tasks and, in particular, the responsibilities of the employer. That's about. 1600 employees to be transferred from the state to Kirka, there must be tariff, pension and special agreements between the parties, and there must be a new ICT system to work, to mention something. Everything should be in place on 1 January 2017. I am aware that in the agreement it was set at 16 million. NOK to the conversion, which we also support. But in the government's draft budget, it is not set at one penny for this purpose. Apparently, it was thought that it would keep putting money away in 2016. Does the Council of State really believe that such a major change can be made in just one year?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3280	We have had this matter out at the hearing, and the consultation deadline expired on 1 November 2014, almost a month after the state budget was presented. We have had no basis for promoting proposals for appropriations so early in this process. It has been our desire to get back to it, in the revised and not least in the state budget for 2016. Now I take note that funds have been put in, which I think is very positive. In particular, there is a need for the ICT systems to replace the common systems of pay, accounting, finance and staff provided by the Directorate for Financial Management, which Kirken receives free of charge today. Now there is a good basis for starting the process earlier and getting the necessary equipment to be prepared to carry out this major conversion that Kirken is facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3285	Thanks for the answer, but I also have another question. The churches in the country are important as God's houses, a place for important events in our lives as infant baptisms, weddings and funerals. In addition, they are concert venues, gathering places for young people and a safe place to apply for too many. In addition to all this, the Church is also a very central part of our historical cultural heritage, an inheritance we have to take care of. State studies show that our churches are in great need of securing, upgrading and maintenance. The Government Declaration states: ‘The government will contribute to a national commitment to the security work of peaceful and protective churches.’ However, in the government's draft budget for 2015, there is no related action in this area. In addition, there was no new investment framework for the interest-rate compensation scheme. As the Council of State itself said, this was corrected in the conciliation. But since I assume that the government was serious with its own draft budget, I ask the Council of State: how did the Council of State think it was possible to fulfill its own promises in the Government Declaration with the draft budget that the government itself presented?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3295	:In terms of the wording of the government platform that the government will contribute to a national commitment to the security work of peaceful and protective churches, I am very concerned about it and come back to how we should promote any case on this for the Storting. We'll have plenty of opportunity to get back to that. We run and collect information on the situation regarding the need for hedged work and upgrades. In the first half of 2014, interest compensation was applied for for refurbishment projects in the Church for less than 100 million. kr. We were also uncertain about the demand in the scheme and did not find a basis for proposing a new framework in 2015. But I record that in the last few months there has been good growth in demand, and we expect that large parts of the year will be used. Therefore, it is positive that this has been incorporated in the agreement agreed at Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3302	The councils have announced a review of what is left of the church system in line with the wishes of the Church meeting. I would like to stress that here in the Chamber there is so far no commitment to what it will end in, and that a very important thing for the Workers' Party – at least – will be how the future Church will be organized, not least democratically. As the Council of State said, there should be church elections until next year. There's been a discussion about having a democratic system in which you actually direct the entire Church meeting, or at least everyone who's through the dioceses, or whether you're going to have a combined arrangement where someone is directly elected and others elected by the councils of opinion. Once again, how does the Council of State view this? How will she help to ensure that elections can be conducted with the greatest possible participation and in the most democratic way possible, as this hall is also directly elected by the people and not by means of e.g. the local government?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3309	I agree with the representative that the Church must ensure both commitment and upliftment among people, so that the Church's elected bodies actually become representative of the members of the Church with democratic legitimacy, as I also said in my speech. It's very important. At the same time, it is important for us who are engaged in the Church, that we engage and are active in influencing the elections to take place to have a democratic and representative selection of representatives in which to be able to choose, so that there is no division of the Church's elected bodies. But this is up to the Church itself to start and have responsibility for. Then it's just to appeal that the Church as such has a responsibility, but also that we as members of the Church can be involved and contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3314	Faith training has become one of the Church's most important tasks. It is a challenge that the grant for religious training has not received an increase corresponding to wage growth, although compensation of employees is almost the only cost of belief training. That means that for every year that goes, this offer is actually weakened. I took this up with the Council of State in the budget debate a year ago, and I was pleased with the answer I received. Then the government replied that it is very important to focus on this, and that she herself will contribute to it. Unfortunately, however, no increase was proposed this year, which corresponds to wage growth, and unfortunately the Christian People's Party did not get through in the budgetary conciliation at this point. My question to the Council of State is: How will the Council of State help to ensure that the offer of religious training is not weakened, and that the staff in religious training may have the opportunity to gain a salary increase in line with others?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3321	Now, politics is a priority, and it's not always the way to make room for all the proposals that you really want to make room for. I think it is difficult for me today to say what is going to be the impact on the budget for 2016, but I guess we can have a good dialogue, not least with the cooperation parties the Christian People's Party and the Left, given the important priorities for the 2016 budget. We have not come so far in the process that we have taken a decision on what we should prioritise, but it is important for me to stress that the training of faith has been a success, and it is also important to bet on it in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3326	I was wondering if the Council of State could explain why the government wants to wind up the scheme of grants to private church buildings, all the time it is very concerned about grants to private school buildings. Then we know that there have been issues in the media about rooting with membership registration both in the Norwegian Church and within the Catholic Church. I wondered what measures have been taken to clean up, to get equivalence and order in terms of membership registration and grants.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3334	With regard to the post office for private church buildings, there have been 10 million. kr there. This year, it looks like we're going to spend $7 million. kr of them. There are many applications that do not meet the criteria. When we presented our budget, we assessed it so that there was no basis for prioritisation. Then it's 5 million. in connection with the conciliation negotiated in Stortinget. I think that's plenty to be able to meet the need for the next year. It is true that there has been a lot of discussion about the Catholic Church, especially with regard to membership registration. Now it is that the Ministry of Culture is actually the Board of Appeal. Now it is the County that is responsible for taking action and going through it and seeing if this is in line with what is going on – and we will see if there are any complaints about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3343	In Norway, we have many churches with a particularly high cultural historical value, not least in the big cities. That's why we put 40 million in the Left's alternative state budget. kr for the restoration of the cathedrals in Stavanger and Bergen. We did not get this through in the budgetary agreement in this round, but we believe the minister is aware that these are large expenditures that may be difficult to deal with for the host municipalities. My question to the Minister of Culture is whether she agrees with the intention of the Left and Christian People's Party that this is such a big and important task that the state should step a little further in the big cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3350	I think it is incredibly important that we agree in this Chamber to hold on to what has been a broad agreement, that the municipalities have a significant responsibility for the maintenance of the churches, and that it is the municipalities that bear the financial responsibility. Based on the figures for 2013, municipalities provide two-thirds of the funding of the churches, while the state provides only one-third. I think it is important to stress that this is a system that must continue in the future; that it is the municipalities that have the primary responsibility. Then we'll see in the future how you can possibly contribute in the form of the interest-rate compensation scheme, where you can be involved in solving problems involving the big churches in the big cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3357	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3360	66 million children worldwide are not allowed to attend school. Many of them are exploited as labour, used in military operations or as slaves. Yesterday’s speeches from the heroic peace prize winners made a strong impression. Yesterday made me even safer that the Norwegian high school is a priority we have to fend for as the dearest we have. Then I don't think of gold and precious stones, but of the near and dear. But as school politicians, it doesn't keep us leaning back and thinking that as long as the structures and systems are in place, the rest takes care of itself. Sten Ludvigsen put this into practice wisely when he overreached the NOU about the school of the future. He said, "Changes in society require school renewal. The content of the school must be based on a wide range of competences, both professional, practical, social and emotional. I could not have agreed more. But there is a discord between this and the government's policy. Because we must be able to say that the initial training budget of the Right-Fremskrit party government is one of the narrowest that has been put forward for a long time. Where did the breadth of competence come from, and where did the broad view of learning come from? We all agree that the teacher is important. We have promised continuing education together – good and hurrah. But the teacher's thing is bad in a solo game. Teachers depend on good working conditions, sufficient time, other professional groups, interested parents and not least engaged, healthy and motivated students. The working party has started the run-up to 1 billion. kr for early effort. Someone has hesitated that we have talked about a read, write and calculate guarantee. But what school politicians are we if we don't have an ambition that every child in our school can learn to read, write and calculate properly? No, you know what, the alternative is mildly said a failure statement. Learning to read, write and calculate is a prerequisite for building the country with teachers, nurses, electricians – or, for that matter, more Nobel Prize winners in medicine. For this reason, the Workers' Party will have more available pedagogues and new systems that capture students and take early action. We believe that more people should benefit from the supplementary and further training funds in several disciplines and from more competences. That is why we earmarked measures for ICT competence, and not least we made sure that professionals were given a very urgent opportunity to improve their skills. Research shows that there is a close link between learning outcomes, nutrition and physical and mental health. That is why we are proposing an ear-marked strengthening of the health care service. We also want to start with the introduction of one hour of physical activity in school — and no student has ever been hurt by an apple. We propose to establish municipal preparedness teams against bullying in all municipalities. A young boy said, ‘It doesn’t help to say from here, they don’t do anything from anywhere.’ We can't be aware of that, that has serious consequences. With proposals that build up under a broad learning vision, we're going to realize the wise school and the wise student, a school where everyone gets their potential for the best for themselves and all of us. But it's a trump card that surpasses all the individual measures, and it's the municipal economy. In the KS budget survey, the school is poor compared to other tasks. Then, as in the municipal debate, we can discuss until we get red and blue about how long it's been like that, but it doesn't move mountains. What makes a difference is what we do in the future. The Workers' Party increases transfers to the municipalities by 3.4 billion. kr in addition to the proposed government. I think it's amazing that despite the fact that we have more money to spend than ever and you give billions of dollars in tax cuts, the government can't do the necessary priorities for the municipalities, even if they say they're doing the opposite. It is possible that five and two are nine in the back blue government, but for us who live in the red future country, the answer is quite different – just ask the municipalities. Almost 60 pst. by the country's advisers, it is worse to make a budget this year than last year. It goes out of school.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3391	To our children who start on the path of knowledge, we can say, 'You'll get a day in a row that's clean and unused'. Now, well into December, we're halfway through the school year, and a lot of kids are on their way to life shaping their future and education. Unfortunately, many will not complete successfully, and forecasts show that Norway will lack 134 000 by 2030 with completed and relevant vocational training. Before the pattern or job was created in the industry as unskilled – ‘that was when it was and it was now’. When the labour market increasingly requires formal skills, unskilled young people face a tougher time, and we have to face this more offensively, with previous efforts, focusing on basic skills, more special education earlier in the school cycle and a more practical education. With the Right–Fremskritsparte-regierung, we have made a good start on our efforts, but also all municipalities have to keep this pressure up. Norway needs more skilled workers in both the private and public sectors, and today about half of a year’s coal in the professional sector begins, while only 15 pst. complete by letter of formal notice. Our goal is to reverse development, and the government has therefore launched the Vocational Training initiative, which is to take the necessary steps. Already in last year's supplementary bill, we increased the bet by 114 million. In addition to the red-green budget, and in just two budget years, we have now, together with the Progress Party, the Left and Christian People's Party, strengthened the apprenticeship grant by SEK 7 500. Only the increased focus on the professional right of the common subjects has given 900 teachers opportunities for continuing training, and the civil parties are able to deliver both a more offensive knowledge budget and a more offensive industrial policy, with lower taxes and better framework conditions. In comparison, the Workers' Party is increasing the taxes by 10 billion. DKr and thereby tighten up the business life to receive apprentices, while at the same time many millions less than the four bourgeois parties are charged with building the knowledge society. I think that's quite eye-catching. In the summer, VG reported that more than one in ten left high school with a grade of 1 or ‘not assessed’ in a number of subjects. This proportion has increased over the last three years, and in addition, about the same number were exempted from the character of some subjects. So we have a large share of high school with weak assumptions for higher education, and 87 pst. of those leaving grade 2 on average from high school, fall from upper secondary school. The fact that some in this context have proposed an additional school year for already school-ridden young people is therefore not a good solution. We have to make demands, but this challenge requires completely different approaches. We therefore need to provide alternative courses in higher education and to facilitate flexible exchange models. During the course of school, summer schools and new opportunities for exams and grades as well as private-sector solutions must contribute as necessary valves and opportunities for education. For example, post-secondary education must include: are used more actively, practice-oriented and identify those students who are best served with e.g. an exchange model. The latter allows for a softer meeting with higher education, where practice and theory are exchanged and the possibility of obtaining a letter of formal education. In higher education, the subject of a deeper education project must be used to get the students out of the classrooms and to meet with their professional teachers in the business community, where subjects are practiced in practice. In this way, trust can be built, practical skills revealed and different theoretical characteristics emphasised in the meeting between a student and a potential employer. More will be provided with opportunities and taught. I want to praise county councils and municipalities that are in charge of several apprenticeships, and not least schools that actively seek out business, enter into agreements, follow up students out of apprenticeships, and that do not depreciate them when they have completed Vg2 in school. Better economic conditions for the reception of apprentices, increased organisation of apprenticeships in public enterprises, strengthening of the hospitation and the Lektor 2 scheme, focus on the vocational school – to mention something – are measures that are important to the Right and that, with the Advance Party, the Left and Christian People's Party, we have strengthened and built up under the Professional League. I also look forward to the NOU report on the vocational schools, which is now being presented on Monday. If we make better use of vocational education and the opportunities to build further, we make the professions even more attractive as a route of education and can meet the future even more strongly equipped as a knowledge nation. It is also important to promote the strengthening of basic labour and volunteering skills. Programmes for basic labour skills, BKA, and the new BKF scheme, Basic skills in volunteering, will help many adults who are out of work and volunteering, acquire basic skills and later build on practical letters. Last, but not least, we have to see the whole human being. I would therefore like to refer to the Committee's joint comment on raising the role of higher education institutions in the education process. The core activity of higher education institutions through the long-term courses has given many young people a good learning environment and a personal boost, which undoubtedly has contributed to generalisation, public education and self-development in the educational landscape. In summary, I can conclude: the four bourgeois parties have gathered on an offensive and good knowledge budget, which builds the knowledge society.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3412	Norway is facing a shortage of skilled workers. At the same time, the need for employees without secondary education will decline. If we are to meet this challenge, we need to give students a school with more practice in the past in school, better and more relevant theory, we need to link school and work better together, provide enough recruiting of vocational teachers, and we need to create more apprenticeships. That is why the Labour Party proposes some 300 million in its alternative budget. more than the government of the professional and trade union professions. Some 6 000 professionals do not have a place to learn. In order to stimulate more enterprises to take responsibility, the Workers' Party will have a significant increase in the apprenticeship grant: 160 million. kr in 2015, approximately NOK 25 000 per contract. Many students today meet out-of-date training equipment. Therefore, the Workers' Party will have a stepping-up plan to update equipment in schools. The working party will give greater attention to vocational teachers and we suggest that they be given priority in the offer of continuing training. I know that it is more than the Workers' Party that is lacking in professional activity, for example. follow-up to the Annual Report on Occupations adopted last year by the Stortinget. In the government's teaching profession is referred to once: when it is established that the absence of a professional programme is a serious problem. And in the budget, where you spend a hundred times more on tax cuts than in school, it's talking about a professional boost. That promise was so difficult to see that we had to ask the Ministry of Knowledge what were the new initiatives in the professional field. The answer was 8 million. kr to professional networks. In 2015, therefore, the government’s professional profession is a new measure. When you add up all the reductions and additions in the field, you see that next year the government would use less in the field than it does this year. It's possible I'm naive, but for me cut isn't the same as a lift, that's the opposite. It is only ‘in reverse country’ that everything is going on. It is only in the rhetoric of the Right and Advance Party that cut becomes lifting, less becomes more, and stamina becomes progress. When challenged in a professional field, the right here consistently refers to a different budget from what we are dealing with today, to actions of the Christian People's Party and the Left through, i.e. the increase in the apprentice's grant, or measures adopted under the Red-Green Government, such as reviewing the supply structure, letters of practice and a wide range of other schemes. Our criticism is not necessarily that the government is thinking wrong, but that they are not thinking new. The exception is in one area. If we are to have more skilled workers, the status of a professional must be increased. It is impossible to weaken the rights of Norwegian workers. Already today, 70 pst. of young people under 30 years of age with low status in construction. About 65 pst. Same thing. Why is that so? Well, the students respond that the cause is concern for an unprofessional labour market with sneezing, a lot of renting and weak protection of employees. When the government will now amend the Working Environment Act with several temporary jobs and weakened rights, I wonder if they have taken on board that this is bad news for the recruitment of a professional. Young people who are to choose education are being scared away from industries that do not provide the security they want. The combination of a lack of professional education and the weakening of the work environment law is a rather accurate recipe for lowering the status of several professions. To put it another way: if the students are to be sent out to Minister of Labour Robert Eriksson's working life, it does not help what Minister of Science Torbjørn Røe Isaksen does with the vocational training. There is a need to invest in professionals in a broad sense. The Labour Party believes that it is right and fair that what the government refers to as a serious problem meets – not only with offensive rhetoric but with offensive action, for students, for teachers, for schools, for apprenticeships, for vocational schools and throughout the labour market. That must be the context of the policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3431	A competitive working and business life requires that we have strong and robust educational institutions and research environments. It is a solid budget proposal for the university and higher education sectors and a very strong research budget we are going to adopt here today. I'm glad that the opposition too recognizes it. A strong civil will for cooperation is reflected in a budget in which all the cooperation parties have strong ownership, a budget adapted to our economy, and which helps to equip Norway for the future. The university and higher education sectors are a pillar of our education system. The government strengthens the commitment to quality in higher education and research in a number of areas: in the budget, in the long-term plan, in the work undertaken for financing and the future structure of the sector. I am pleased that the civil parties prioritise higher education and research. Together, we've found good tools to strengthen the area, and here I'm going to bring out the 100 million bet. SEK to develop world-leading professional environments, the 75 million. SEK for the upgrading of university buildings, 147 new recruitment posts, where UiA, UiS and UiN will have half of the 100 that came into the agreement. I agree with the representative, Mr Nybø, that it is good news for these environments, which are in strong development. Furthermore, basic appropriations for universities and higher education are increased by 50 million. NOK in the agreement, and it is set at 60 million. SEK in increase of free project support, 115 million. kr for increased participation in Horizon 2020 and 100 million. kr to research infrastructure. This is a good follow-up to what the knowledge budget cooperation parties put forward last year, and we see that this government is delivering. There is also reason to promote the long-term plan as a milestone for research and higher education. For the first time, a plan provides predictability and long-termity for business and research and university environments. There are many people who have noticed in the sector. In the long-term plan, the government prioritises financing 500 new recruitment positions, strengthening the allocation to infrastructure by 400 million. kr and strengthen the allocation of schemes contributing to better participation in Horizon 2020 by 400 million. kr. A target has also been set to escalate public research funding to 1 pst. GDP. We know that the government's goal is to build the knowledge society, and we see that we are now prioritizing the most important thing for higher education, that is. study quality, student housing and student support. The cooperation parties have found room to give priority to 2000 new student housing. The basic support in the Loan Fund has been increased for the second consecutive year, and a currency adjustment for the loans of foreign students has been found. As a southerner, I would like to say that I am particularly pleased that both the Church, Education and Research Committee and the Business Committee have chosen to submit comments on the strong mechatronics environment in the South and the need for the regional community to establish the Mechatronic Innovation Lab at the University's campus in Grimstad. This committee is also responsible for church policy, an area that is important to very many people. Here are two things that I want to draw up in this article. It concerns the 16-million-dollar budgetary agreement. kr in conversion funds to Kirka. They are needed to prepare the process until 2017, when Kirka is planned to be established as its legal entity. The second thing I want to point out here is the new framework for interest compensation for refurbishment of church buildings of 500 million. kr, plus the additional allocation of 2 million. kr for the protection of church buildings, which also councillor Widvey was in. I welcome the constructive cooperation with the other civil parties in these matters. The government wants a strong nationwide church even after 2017, and this is a good contribution in the process towards it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3455	In a line change with me in the financial debate, the Minister of Knowledge was very honest about the draft budget we are discussing today. He said that the majority parties with the Christian People's Party and the Left have made the budget both better and stronger. It must mean that the Council of State believes that the budget he himself provided was not the best for the country. I fully agree with the Council of State, because if he and the government had got what they wanted, they had, among other things. National colleges were severely weakened, and the value of student associations across the country would receive 40 million. kr less, and the study centre Finnsnes AS and the study centre.no had been almost erased from the knowledge map. The Council of State has, as said earlier in the debate, been at a cake party to celebrate that one of his cut proposals was not implemented. There may be a lot of cake parties at the minister's office in the future. For those cuts, there are only a few examples of what was corrected in the conciliation, but which would have been true if the Right and Advance Party had had a majority. The proposals were both destructive and unsocial. In addition, the argument why the cuts were proposed was not convincing. Let me take some of the Council's own argument. In the Question Time on November 12, he said that the short-term draft of the Folkehochschule was sound because it hit what the minister himself described as rich people between 40 and 70 years of age. Here are a few examples of the courses we are talking about: the summer course for mentally retarded young people, the keliaki course for young people and families, the course in which the prevention of sexual abuse is the theme, the course for those with eating disorders and the writing course. I find it somewhat strange that the Council of State describes these as people between 40 and 70 years of age with good advice. But I'm not going to go into any debate with the Council of State about this, because we probably have different perceptions of what we mean by good advice, and whether learning and need for education are age-dependent. For the Workers' Party, it is important that we have equal rights to education regardless of wallet, age, gender and condition. One of the cuts that unfortunately were not corrected was appropriations for the Geneva School. It has now been removed from the State budget. Since 1931, the school has been an important venue for all trade union organisations, where trustees from all over the Nordic region have had the opportunity to learn about international, professional and political issues. But this is another example of the fact that the trade movement is not important to the government. A grant of NOK 700,000 would not have put the Norwegian economy at risk, but the blue-blues clearly believe that it is fair and reasonable to allow the other Nordic countries to take the bill for Norwegian students. Somewhere else the state council may be going to a cake party, is at the country's study association. Every year, the study associations arrange about 43 000 courses, and almost 10 pst. the participation of the population. Since the government submitted its draft budget, I have received a lot of suspicious e-mails and letters on this matter. They come from the voluntary cultural and amateur theatre environment of the country, youth teams, theatre groups, leisure clubs, choirs, corps, dances and from the organisations of the disabled, to name a few. Many say that much of the local study work would have had to be done if the government's draft budget had received a majority. The voluntary sector has been an important contributor to the development of our country, and many of them have made our society richer and warmer. They are a good addition to public offerings, and they are innovative and important voices in the social debate. Therefore, the Workers' Party supports voluntary action. Until we saw the draft state budget, we thought it was important for the government as well. I have long since come out of the census of how many times the Prime Minister and the Council of State have talked about the importance of volunteering, and when they presented their declaration of volunteering six days ago, it was said: ‘Freedom is an essential part of virtually all areas of society. Through the Declaration of Freedom, we will ensure the voluntary sector predictability, transparency, trust and accessibility in the dialogue with the government regardless of the department to which they are addressed. The fact that people engage and take responsibility in the community, prevent loneliness and build communities. It is the will to create good society.’ In addition, it was said: ‘ Voluntary organisations are glued to our society’. And... ‘Freedom creates joy, well-being and links communities. Therefore, it is important that both countries and municipalities provide the voluntary service with good conditions.’ This is well said, and I fully agree. The eye-catching thing is that this was said by the government a few days ago, less than two months after they put out a budget where they thought it was a good idea to cut volunteer without any justification. It was only in later debates that we were told that the cuts were necessary to ensure voluntary sector independence and credibility. I have to ask the Council of State: what does he and the government now mean that both the state and the municipality must give the volunteer good conditions? Or to put it another way: since I am from Hedmark and Prøysen have been quoted many times here today, I can ask the question: how is he going to make sure that the grass is green for bad?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3488	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3492	Everyone agrees to create the best possible school for the students. Most people agree that the school should work in a socially equal way. However, when it comes to the instruments, the consensus stops. So I decided to ask those who work at school. I challenged them to make representations to me about this debate via Facebook groups Working Time Negotiations and Status Teacher with over 30,000 members, where most of them work or have worked in school. In addition, I have received recordings from the Student Organisation. I've got about 150 recordings, and two things go on: more time for every student and KS' lack of understanding. First a little about ‘more time for each student’: here the signals are largely about class size, teacher density, bureaucracy of the teaching profession and municipal and county resources and priorities. There is no doubt that many teachers and other employees in the school experience a lack of resources and a bureaucratic everyday life that affects the students. There is a great distance from national goals to school life very many places. Municipal and county priorities and resources often contribute to making national school objectives impossible, and what many in school feel is not the raisin in the sausage, but as the stone in the shoe, is the seemingly weak school policy and provocative employer policy of the KS. We need to listen more to students, parents, teachers and other employees in school to develop a school where everyone gets the best possible follow-up. It might be about more governance, and it's definitely about more resources. It is also about making it more attractive to work at school for teachers and other professional groups. Working conditions and wages are important in this way. I know that the knowledge minister has received a time thief report today, well and well, but in school one already knows what the big problems are. They have to do something about it now. In the last few years, the school bat has been very much about how the school is going to change. All activities in society are and must, of course, be changing. I think that's the challenge for both students and teachers. In order to achieve this, it is essential that students, parents, teachers and other employees are given greater influence over the design of future school policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3505	The centre party is concerned that the school, in addition to being a place to acquire knowledge, should be an arena to grow as a human being and to be closed. Clay schooling is important in this context. Through a week of clay school, young people experience a lot of memory and learn a lot about different themes, about themselves and about others. There's no doubt that there's good social training in a week at the camp, and there's also a dimension of social smoothing in it, because everyone has to live under equal conditions – get the same food and get the same experiences. At the same time, while everyone is probably scouring the high level of clay schooling for the students, there is still a struggle for the funds in the municipalities. Regrettably, this leads to fewer elephants being offered, e.g. Only half of the students in Westfold are offered clay balls. There is reason to stress that it is necessary to target means to ensure clay ball retention for as many as possible. So we in the Center Party have seen 100 million. kr in our alternative state budget for the very purpose of the clay ball. It's a clear move to show that we see the value of clay schooling, and that we mean this offer and the non-formal competence you can get there, is an important part of the schooling.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3514	I understand from the debate, which I have followed from the office, that there has also been a discussion about the municipal framework for next year. The committee leader began by calling the scheme for the next year for a wretched scheme. He took a little stronger words in his mouth than that Helga Pedersen did Tuesday, she called it a lean scheme for next year. The scheme for next year has a real growth rate of 1.5 pst. in the municipal sector. In comparison, I can tell you that when Sigbjørn Johnsen was going to describe the growth from 2012 to 2013, which was then 1.2 pst., he called it neither skinny nor miserable, but a good increase. If this in the red-greens' time, when one had a less real growth than the one we're putting on the table now, it was a good increase, it would be totally wrong to call what's in the municipality for the next year, for a miserable and meagre setup. School policy is important for municipalities. The municipalities are school owners, and the foundation is funded through a framework where municipal politicians give priority to the school sector against other things. That is why school policy and today's debate are important. The human capital of Norway is the largest resource we have, and is 80 pst. of our national wealth. This resource should be used even better to translate human capital into value-creating innovation, but also to ensure that local authorities will have access to skilled labour in the future, such as health workers, engineers and teachers, to identify some groups. If we are to get the best possible exchange of our national wealth, human capital, we must have a good challenge offer at all stages from kindergarten to elementary school and adult education. Norway, as a knowledge society, is completely dependent on the acquisition of basic school pupils of knowledge to master the challenges they face in vocational training, in studies and in the workplace. Norwegian elephants need to learn more. For this reason, in its draft 2015 budget, the government has strengthened the already historic commitment to the further development of teachers. In the budget agreement, we also strengthen the small school stage, 1–4. class, with even more teachers, with an extra charge of 200 million. kr. The millions will be added to a good municipal framework, which will be on the table next year. The income frame, as has been said many times before from this pulpit, increases by 7.8 billion. NOK 4,7 billion. SEK of these are free income. So calling this a lean scheme, or even worse: miserable, wrong. The scheme for the next year enabled the municipalities to deliver good welfare services in schools, and it is quite wrong to say that the government is depriving the municipal economy of next year. All municipalities get more money, and all municipalities are able to deliver good services to their inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3527	Let me first sign the words of the chairman of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, Njåstad, that the municipal structure for the next year is a good arrangement, full of what has been delivered in recent years by the red-green government. But I took the floor to say a few words about knowledge policy. The focus on knowledge is policies that work. That is why the government's commitment to knowledge is also correct policy. Even I'm from Trondheim, and of course I'm a little proud of it every day, but all of Norway has reason to be proud of the heavy knowledge environments that generations of women and men have built up in this city. Nobel prizes have also been awarded in Stockholm this week. Norway is rarely represented, but this year we were. The performances of the Moser couple and the way NTNU has organized and given them opportunities, are also an inspiration for us politicians. The government then also follows up, as announced before the election and in the government statement. That is why the government’s research budget deserves to be commended. The Research Council announced when the budget was presented that they were pleased with a strong research budget. Sintef said that the government is providing a good research budget, and they were particularly pleased with the commitment to the Horizon 2020 programme, which is reinforced by 115 million. kr. It is focused on the development of several world-leading environments. 70 million. The aim is to improve the ability of the best professional environments to recruit the best researchers. In the Address Paper this week, we could read that NTNU spends money on creating fiddle layers with business to attract more competent professors, and at NTNU, there is room to promote quality. That's how I could still have-- and let me just do it. At the same time as the budget presentation came the very first long-term plan for research and higher education. Here the government announces a large-scale escalation, among other things. to equipment, recruitment positions and actions to involve more people in just European research cooperation. And as a trouser, I am particularly pleased that the oceanic laboratory of the future Ocean Space Center is being launched as one of the priority projects in the notification. In addition, it is gratifying to see that a unanimous committee identifies the specific position of the NTNU and that the Committee has registered the Governing Board’s strategy related to campus development in order to further strengthen the possibilities for fulfilling its national societal mission. Finally, we also have a government that prioritises strengthening student support, for the second consecutive year, and it is increasing beyond price growth. Where the red-green government failed, we strengthen the students' finances. In the government platform we promised several student homes, which we followed up in the state budget. And I'm happy with the students that the budget agreement gives a record bet of 2,000 student homes, much higher than in any previous years. Norway shall have high ambitions. Good knowledge policy equips Norway for the future, and the budget adopted tonight gives better hope for this future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3546	Research is important. In the debate on industrial policy earlier today, there were criticisms from several that the state budget was non-economic. But research policies are also important industrial policies, and they are very exciting in this area. It is such that a competitive working and business life has led us to have strong and robust educational and research institutions. The budget we adopt is the amount of time spent on research, with over 30 billion dollars. kr. Yes – the government has ambitious objectives for research policy. We need a world-class professional environment. To get that, we need to give priority and think about the long term. For this reason, the government is investing in research infrastructure, recruitment options and how to ensure good participation in European research cooperation. In the case of aquaculture, it is clear that this industry will be able to grow if we solve the environmental challenges and ensure that access to ingredients to feed is achieved in a sustainable way. Then it's important that we research this. We do that, and it's not neutral. Specific research will help solve environmental challenges, and feed and feed materials used in Norwegian aquaculture will come from resilient sources. Research and development of new technologies allow us to make better use of raw materials. New raw materials such as krill, insect mills, algae, yeasts and bacteria can become relevant ingredients. This is also an area where there is a lot of research activity going on, and this government and the Cooperation Party Left and Christian People's Party has delivered a lot of money in one year through the two budgets we received here in the Stortinget. Government and Cooperation Party The Left and Christian People's Party invests in knowledge of marine nutrition so that it can contribute to triggering the great value creation potential that lies in the industry in the future in a resilient way. For 2015 there will be an increase in the marine research effort of an additional 55 million. kr. The growth in marine research has thus increased by over 110 million. kr since the government change. Nutritional neutrality cannot be called when priority research bets are to provide more knowledge as a basis for sustainable growth in seafood. The University of Bergen has two strategic areas, marine research and development research. The university is running a new strategy process and has evaluated whether the bets have given away and added value. In the Official Journal of today we can read that it has produced results. It confirms that the quality of marine research remains high and is internationally recognised. Then it's important that we bet where we are good. This year's government budget will focus on strengthening key infrastructure, increasing the engagement of industry-related research and technology development, the development of marine bioeconomy, the live storage of fish, internationalisation and the building of knowledge and competences of the marine research institutes. This can not be called nutritional neutrality. This is about betting where we have the advantage.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3569	In the government's political platform, eight main fields of action are identified to further expand the country to meet the demands of the future. One of the main areas of activity is knowledge. Knowledge has also been given a great deal of attention in the government's political platform, where this area of activity alone has been given many aspects of the political document. A human being is from the very birth of longing for knowledge, something we shall be happy for. It is important to ensure that children are given sufficient attention already in kindergarten so that they can get the best possible start to life. Good kindergartens provide the basis for the knowledge society, and it is therefore important that everyone has the opportunity to have a kindergarten. Here the government follows up and allocates 112 million. kr to support those who need this offer the most. In order to promote the quality of kindergartens, the government allocates a total of 275 million. kr, which is an increase of 50 pst. in relation to the level a little over a year ago. The main single factor for students to learn is the teacher. The quality of the teacher in terms of both professional knowledge and pedagogical understanding is crucial. I think that's something that all of us who have gone to school ourselves have experienced many times. Therefore, it is also important to give the teacher priority first, and make sure that the teachers in our school are knowledge-rich in both the subjects they teach and as educators. This priority is again reflected in the government's budget commitment, where the government proposes to spend more than 1 billion. kr to make the teacher better than before. With this effort, the government has tripled the efforts to further train teachers during its first year. The acquisition of knowledge is life-long, and therefore it is very important that individuals bring with them a knowledge-ballast that has a good progress, from kindergarten level to home level, to stand on their own feet and start their future career. As part of the knowledge society, the government is committed to research, and the government will therefore strengthen the infrastructure system in the Research Council by 400 million. kr by 2018. For 2015, research infrastructure is strengthened by 100 million. kr. Timely research infrastructure is a prerequisite for research of high quality and efficiency. With the high cost level we have in our country, it's not realistic to think that we can be the cheapest, but we can be among the best in research, and in some segments we can also be the best, which we have many good examples of. Initially, I said that one of the main areas of government's activity is knowledge, and I have to say that I am very pleased with the way the government shows this, through budget investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3584	I think we all agree that the drop-out rate in high school is too high, and I also see that there is a consensus that the measures must be implemented early in school. A good basis from primary school is essential for good performance in high school. School and education are therefore required to invest in municipalities and county municipalities. It surprises me that parties that are highly profiled as school parties often show little interest in prioritising local government budgets. Quality costs. If we want more adapted training, higher teacher density or other measures that we believe increase the quality of education, we need to provide the resources required through increased appropriations. The size may be able to put in some bets through earmarked actions, but the rule is that the local economy is weakened, and the school is also weakened. 2014 has become a difficult year for municipalities. That's also going to be 2015. The framework adopted by the Stortinget for next year's budget does not take into account the tax failure of municipalities this year and is also expected next year. I'm afraid the school budgets in both the municipalities and the county municipalities will be among those who suffer the most under tight conditions. KS has recently reviewed the draft budget for 2015. A large majority of municipalities will have to make significant cuts in services next year, shows the survey. For the school sector, budget proposals suggest that expenditure growth is significantly lower than wage and price growth. Fewer students are to a small extent the reasons for cutbacks, the reason for this is poorer local economy. Cuts are made primarily through structural changes and cut into unbound items, such as adapted training, temporary budgets, etc. The central party budget for the municipal sector is more than 2.5 billion. kr more in free income of municipalities and counties. Earlier in the debate, the representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien has gone through some of the school-political ambitions that the Centre Party has and that can be resolved within these frameworks. The Center Party is thinking of early action. Then, throughout primary school, we have to provide all pupils with appropriate education and the ability to develop their skills. The Centerpartie School Party is also particularly concerned with strengthening vocational training in secondary school. Without competent health and social workers, crafts and service professionals, we are unable to meet the challenges Norway will face in the future. The decline in professional qualifications must be reduced, and this must be done through a better and more flexible organisation of the training cycle. Anyone who has spoken in the debate will strengthen the school. The intentions are good, there's no doubt about it. The test of whether we live up to our intentions will be if we give the school owners the opportunity to live up to their demands. The budgetary surveys carried out for 2015 do not promise well at that time. We can do something about that already when we're dealing with the balancing proposition next week. The local government sector needs to be provided with a framework to avoid using 2015 for budget cuts because of the loss of revenue it has suffered this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3599	With the State budget, the government has put forward the focus of time on knowledge, research and development. The Labour Party presented its alternative budget, and they did not impress at all with their ordinary budget, at least. But it happened in their revised budget, where they took note and did the same thing as the government parties and the cooperation parties the Left and Christian People's Party did. Several of the representatives of the Workers' Party have today brought forward the municipal framework, and at the same time they boasted of the former strengthening of the municipal economy. But I would like to remind you that a good and targeted school policy is more than a municipal economy, and the budget agreement gives real growth in total income to municipalities of 7.8 billion. kr. Of the growth, 4.7 billion. - free income. It's equal to 1.5 pst., which is at the level of growth in recent years. I also note that the rapporteur of the Labour Party in Fauske, Siv Anita Johnsen Breek, seems to be the municipal economy for next year. The Workers' Party proposes to increase taxes by 10 billion. kr, but still grants 16 billion. kr less than the governing parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left in the framework area. I am pleased that the government gives tax relief to the labour market and that people can keep more of their own money. At the same time, we are able to deliver a good education and research budget that ensures the development of today and the future. The right-hand party government prioritises the students and last year added an increase in student support of almost two percentage points above price growth. Now the government is adding an increase of another percentage point over price growth. The working party found no room to increase more than the expected price increase in some of their budgets when they sat and steered. The Labour Party proposes for the second year in row eleven months study support, but does not put a single crown on the table. It is clear that the Workers' Party changes its mind as soon as they move from position to opposition. Now the Workers' Party is in opposition and had a real opportunity to show that they really mean giving students eleven months of student support, but there is not one penny on the table. As I see it, this is simply tricking the students. In the last red-green period, no money was allocated to a single new scholarship position. With this year's budget proposal, there is a little over a year's budget allocated to almost 300 scholarship positions. This clearly illustrates a shift in the pace of education policy. We also know that the teacher is the most important one for the student's learning. I record that the Workers' Party is now trying to present the government's offensive teaching effort as a continuation of their policy. Let me underline that the Right Party government, with its budget for the year, almost triples the number of teachers offered further training.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3616	The Center Party's budget was described by the Norwegian student organisation in a blog as very strong on student welfare. We're small, like Teskekerringa, but we're not confused. We're concerned with the content and quality of what we're suggesting, and not just the quantity. We want those who choose to study to have time and opportunity to do it, and that means that we have to make sure that students have finances that make sure they don't have a full job next to the studies. Two of the main contributions to this is to increase student support and provide student housing that provides reasonable rental prices. The red-green government stepped up the student residence building considerably. The Bondevik II government proposed in its last budget money for 314 student housing. The expansion had been steady for about 300 new dwellings a year. The following year, when the red-green government took over, this number doubled, to 606, and since then this number has actually increased steadily. In the 2013 budget, the figure was 1,065, and it was increased to 1,438 in the revised budget in 2013. The construction of student housing has tripled under the red-green government. All the parties here are probably struggling a little bit about who's going to give the most to student homes, but at least in our proposal we have increased this number further. Because we have an ambition to increase the number of student homes and show this in our budget as well. If this is the case that a promise to expand 2,000 to 3,000 new student homes a year, as the government has actually done, then this has to be shown in the budgets. We know that high housing costs are one of the obstacles for young people who want to study. Another economic obstacle is study support. We went to the elections to increase student support to eleven months, and we show that we want this in the year's budget as well. This means that the students would have received approx. 11,000 more in the year from 2016, in addition to adjusting wages and salaries. In the autumn we also received a study on the health and well-being of students. Every five students state that they have mental disorders. It's twice as high as the population else in the same age group. We are concerned about this and have therefore proposed 10 million. to measures for the mental health of students. In addition, our efforts at health stations and the school health service, to which the representative Toppe will come back. But I hope the Storting supports the proposal to launch a new student life-cycle study, so that there will be a majority for that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3631	The Public Health Report 2014 from the Swedish Institute of Public Health shows a strong development of lifestyle diseases in Norway. Risk factors such as obesity and obesity are greatly increased. Lifestyle diseases can be prevented, but a much more targeted public health effort is needed in Norway than the blue government provides. The centre part will have a health promise among children and young people, where a school will be used as the prevention arena. Five areas need specific bets. The first area is physical activity. Norwegian youths today are as silent as pensioners. Only half of the 15-year-olds comply with the health authorities’ minimum recommendations for daily physical activity. Inactivity, according to the Health Directorate, is estimated to cost Norwegian society 239 billion. kr annually, and that is about the same as two hospital budgets. There are no counter-arguments left – all children and young people must have one hour of physical activity in school every day from 1st to 10th grade. The Centre Party shall give priority to this in its alternative budget. The other area applies to school meals. Dieting has been a class issue that increases social health differences in Norway, and cut into free fruit and green arrangements in the school was a fundamental unfair and unsocial decision made by the blue-blue government and applauded by the Christian People's Party and the Left. The central part of the 2015 budget prioritises free fruit and greenery throughout the backbone, as well as a system of set-aside for the gradual introduction of a school meal. Our third health lift is for fresh school buildings. School drop-outs and classrooms with a health-threatening indoor climate are commonplace for very many children – even if Norwegian municipalities had a deadline of 1998 to have all schools approved their indoor climate. Children and young people's right to attend a school that does not become ill must now be fulfilled. The centre party therefore prioritises a strong municipal economy, which is fundamental to continuing its work on rehabilitation and rehabilitation of school buildings. The fourth health lift of the centre party in the school is to build out the scholastic services. 15-20 pst. of children and young people in Norway with mental problems. The Skeleton Service is an important low-threshold service that must be easily accessible. We have proposed a five-year municipal mental health escalation plan, funded by ear-marked funds, and added 400 million. kr ear-marked means of such a promise in 2015. Plus 200 million is going to be going to be right over there. kr to the school health service in the municipality. The last but vital health lift of the centre party in the school is due to swimming. Half of Norwegian teenagers cannot swim. Norway is at the top of drowning hatches. Swimming must be a straight line for all the elephants to be met in the school. Then several swimming pools must be built, the swimming pool button must be reintroduced, symmetry must be defined in the training law and education must be strengthened. This will cost you $75 million. kr to strengthen swimming education in 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3646	One of the priorities of the budget is the commitment to the development of world-leading professional environments, and the draft budget is, as I said, 100 million. kr related to the recruitment of top researchers. For the 70 million. kr used for the five old universities: when the Workers' Party is critical that these institutions receive these funds, I would like to point out that they believe that this violates the principles of quality rewards through open competition, and they believe that this is in practice financed through cuts in the appropriations for higher education and the new universities. None of these claims lead to correctness. None of the institutions have been hand-picked for this effort to recruit top researchers to develop world-leading environments – the 70 million. kr is broken down according to pointed quality criteria. We are talking here about what environments have done well in terms of awarding centres for excellent research, centres for excellent innovation and research centres for environmentally friendly energy. Attention has also been paid to the Research Council's leading competitive field which embraces all disciplines, FRIPRO, where scientific quality is a crucial criterion for funding. In addition, the international dimension has been important in that the Ministry has looked at the ability of Norwegian institutions to win in the fight for the most high-end research funds in Europe. In this context, emphasis has been placed on identifying those who have been given the role of coordinators in projects under the 7th Framework Programme and those who have entered the competition for research funding through the European Research Council, the ERC. To develop world-leading environments, it is necessary to invest in those who have already shown that they are well advanced in national and international competitive areas, and the criteria used reflect this. There is no point in saying that neither the draft budget by the government nor the agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party means any distortion from colleges and new universities to the old ones. Rather, the 2015 budget represents a solid strengthening of universities and colleges in general, with growth of 2.6 pst. compared to 2014. And there might be reason to remember that this real growth also came up on a very good university and higher education budget for 2014, i.e. after the government change. The 2015 budget also includes measures that take both the breadth and the peaks of the university and higher education sectors. Among other things, there is a commitment to: in world-leading environments, equipment for important professional training, recruitment positions, strengthening of the EU incentive, basic funding of private universities, structural measures and upgrading of new university buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3658	A few weeks ago I read a chronicle in the newspaper that really impressed me. The chronicle was called the "Emergency Measurement in School", and it was a mother and teacher who wrote about her young child who went to a school that kept weighing and measuring her child. She writes that it may seem that there is a lot of good in all of these goals, but that they experience a different reality than that the child learns, namely to comfort a child who is afraid not to achieve the many learning goals for each week. It's become a daily exercise in family life. She also says that there is no light in sight, because the Right Agency here wants to have new ambitious goals and that ‘our students will compete with the best in Europe’. So you tell 7-year-olds at school. And then she says, ‘The new year is the completion of the self-assessment during the week. Instead of the teacher putting in his symbols for the students' goal attainment, the children themselves are going to cross under the statements I can't do this, I'm not sure, I can do this." So in this way, the students, the 7-year-olds, have to reflect on their own learning. I actually thought it was the parents and teachers who were responsible for this in the case of so young children, and I really wonder how children from difficult home conditions feel to have to assess their seas according to such criteria. And she writes: ‘Then it really hurts to think about how this merciless target regime is experienced by children who labor professionally or struggle with anguish of performance and low self-image. There is a clear message for the child: you are not good enough. You must get better." She writes that she now refuses to put her name under these tests, and then she finally writes: ‘And while politicians spend time discussing the causes of high school dropout, a little boy goes to school and grunts. [[...]] Every day.’» I have worked a lot with disadvantaged young people, especially through the mob project. The very first young people to learn from the mob project is that you're good enough. And then I wonder, Who in the world has taught them that they are not good enough? My soul has been working in kindergarten, and sometimes I wonder how the educational children who come from there, after a few years of school, don't want to learn. This target regime, which is about to be introduced in school, is destroying learning, and it is destroying the ability of many children. We have a purpose paragraph in school that is broad and good, and that must be our main goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3682	We live in a society where knowledge is important for getting into the world of work. The big social differences in society go between those who have jobs and those who don't, between those who are able to live on their own income and those who can't. This is why it is so important to invest in school, to prevent apostasy and to facilitate an educational process that equips young people for work. This is done by the government and the cooperation parties in this budget, through a policy of schooling and education and at the same time securing Norwegian jobs by providing tax incentives to invest in Norwegian business. An article in Today’s Business asked questions as to why the professions are so low in status. A study conducted by Norstat shows that 73 pst. of which less than 30 years consider that construction training is of low status, which is also reflected in the number of applicants for this training. The search has been reduced by 40 pst. Since 2007, and this is serious. But when half of those who, after all, choose to start a vocational education fall away, it's not just a serious, but a societal challenge that we have to do something about. Many are now making progress in the professional field as best they can, as demand is going to be high in the years to come. But if young people are not offered apprenticeship, why should they choose a profession? In Stavanger, the professions are highly trained, for there is a strong culture to receive apprentices. That's why more people have to look at Stavanger and learn from them. We can't just have young people taking university education and masters. We also need practitioners, craftsmen and skilled workers. For this reason, the government is committed to strengthening professional investment. The government provides for closer cooperation between school and working life, more flexible courses in vocational and vocational training and better quality and relevance in training. In the year’s budget, the Government has increased the apprentice’s grant and has allocated funds to enhance the skills of vocational teachers. The government also outlines a number of measures that it will implement to raise the professions. The government will look at the action structure in secondary school to ensure that the students are offered vocational training that is requested in the labour market, that the students are given more time in business, that there is closer cooperation between school and business, and that we will also work on a strategy to increase the number of apprentices in the country. State and municipality have the weakest apprentice culture of all. That's why it was nice to read in my local way, Budstikka, that the municipality of Asker has taken action and will do something with that statistics. The municipality now doubles the number of apprenticeship places in the health and education sector. Over four years, 30 apprenticeship places are going to be 60. The municipalities have chosen to follow the KS’ recommendation to have one apprenticeship space per 1000 inhabitants and become one of the country’s leading apprentice municipalities. The aim is that more students will then choose health and education. The municipality has realised that it needs to take some action to ensure qualified staff for nursing homes, nursing homes, kindergartens and SFOs, and the municipality has realised that ensuring a good apprenticeship can be essential if a student is to choose his/her professional skills. Focusing on professional choices means closer cooperation between state, state, municipality and business, and with this budget, the government has taken a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3695	It has been said a lot about teachers today. It's been a lot of good about challenge, because it's important. The Norwegian model, where everyone has equal rights to challenge, is nothing of course. One should not go back in history until one was dependent on well-being parents for challenge. In my home state of Sogn and Fjordne, the result in the base ball is in line with the very best in the country, in spite of small units and scattered bustet – factors that right-wing government looks like an obscurity, if one should believe the eagerness to merge and make everything big and big. Of course, there are many reasons for these good results. I think good teachers are the most important of them. How did one get these nice people to school in Sogn and Fjordane? One important reason is called the Hochskulen in Sogn and Fjordane, another called cooperation. But I want to say a little bit about the marble. I have many claims that the High School in Sogn and Fjordane is the most important institution we have in the county. I think it's a growing deal. The hive recruits from all over the country, and many of those who come to the state for challenge are staying. Of course, it is also important for our own young people. But the most important thing is of course that the high school gives public and private sector access to capable young people who would have been harder to recruit from Bergen, Volda, Ålesund or Oslo. In its centralisation tool, the Minister of Knowledge has launched processes for bringing together higher education institutions around the country. In Sogn Avis one can read today about the Student Parliament at the Hochskulen in Sogn and Fjordane, which is concerned about the Minister's signal, and is afraid that the højskulen will miss its distinctive character. The university board, where the students are also represented, has clearly stated that they do not want to merge. The school cooperates with the best educational institutions in the country before its subjects – Norway’s sports college in the field of sport, NTNU in technical subjects, etc. The Hochskulen has very good results, both in student penetration, well-being and professionalism. State Secretary Bjørn Haugstad was visiting in November. According to the leader of the Student Parliament, Tollak Kaldheim, the birthright was discouraging. They were given the clear impression that the State Secretary was making a forced emancipation for the high ball. Kaldheim does not see that the Council of State puts students in the focus of this process. As I understand it, the Council of State is not satisfied that the colleges and universities do not want to, and call in to the meeting on December 17th, and I would ask that one of the governments today confirm that one does not want to merge higher education institutions with coercive ones, against their own will, and thus risk lowering the quality of key education institutions. I want to ask for a confirmation that the government has respect for good results, good application, good student penetration, good professional results, and I can once again go back to the basic school, which shows that good teachers provide a good school – in line with the very best in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3710	One of the things that has always puzzled me most about Norwegian political debate is the constant competition between the various parties to spend as much money as possible. We are far too little concerned about targets and results and about the number of billions allocated to the state budget. Money is often important, but heads and ears should not be the goal, but rather the way to reach the goal. If this is the kind of debate the Labour Party wants, they would like to have it, because it is not what the representative Giske says that the knowledge budget is down-priority, under-funded or has lost in the fight against other good measures, for example. tax incentives for the conversion of Norway. If you take the framework we are dealing with here today, it is the Workers' Party that spends less money – 17 million. kr less for church, education and research – and not us, despite the fact that the Workers' Party has 10, 13 or 16 billion. kr more to be used, whichever tax scheme they choose from day to day. Where are they going to be the money? Well, the Workers' Party's cut in this important field goes straight into the giant oil fund of 6 200 billion. kr. The cut of the working party, for example: The Research Council, is going to buy tradesmen in London. It is possible to regard it as a good fiscal policy, but it is not a good knowledge policy. The Labour Party's criticism of this area is as bad as the Hunter Bomber. So that's what I was really going to talk about: student welfare. What the four cooperation parties have agreed on this year is very good in that field. Investing in students is not about giving yourself a better conscience, but about arming Norway for the future. If we're going to get good candidates out of colleges and universities, we have to get the situation ready to get it done. What students have said is most important to improve the student economy, so that more students get the opportunity to study a little more and work a little less, is the construction of student homes. This is a very good cheek egg, because it also dampens the pressure in the ordinary housing market, which benefits not only students but also other young people who want to enter the housing market. 2000 student housing for 2015 is very good. It's twice as much as just a couple of years ago. The relationships are happy, and the students are cheering. This is a good sign of the knowledge efforts of the four cooperation parties. During the red-green government period, the study aid was actually increased by a few per million. We are in front of it: last year we doubled the proposal of the previous government, and we are following up this year with a proposal that is well above the expected price increase. This means – together with, among other things, the improvement of the disease prevention system and the forthcoming change in the law of cooperation – that students get a slightly better life next year than they have had in previous years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3721	Education and research are one of the most important areas of activity for the current government and for our society. Providing children and young people with a solid foundation in the form of education and knowledge will make both them and Norway rusty for the future. In order to do this, it is important that new, skilled teachers are trained, and forecasts from the Central Statistical Office show that thousands of teachers will be lacking in the years to come. Recruitment and good teacher training will be part of the solution to the challenges, but once you have trained the teacher, it will be a new challenge to keep him in the job: one of three newly educated teachers is unfortunately dropping out of the profession after a few years. So it's not just about training new teachers for the profession, but also about taking care of those who already have an education and a teaching job, so that they continue in their profession. On the basis of this and of the fact that there will always be a need for further training, this has been heavily invested in the budget. Education and knowledge is a fresh product that the government maintains through the prioritisation of further training of teachers and an attractive five-year teacher training. Professionals have been mentioned several times in this debate, and one thing is certain – the professions need a status boost. In particular, the professional engagement in the budgetary agreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left is important, ensuring an increase in the apprenticeship grant. The increase is NOK 4000 in one contract and amounts to a total of SEK 78.4 million. So this is going to be the top of last year's increase. After a standstill of almost five years, an important step is taken to increase the number of apprenticeships for young people who choose a professional course. This is an important measure to prevent a problem which, unfortunately, has become larger and larger in recent years, and it is out of the question in high school — and which is particularly true for professionals. There are often different and complex reasons for the drop-out in secondary education. To combat this, enhanced cooperation between schools, homes, workplaces and students is important in order to ensure a good learning environment, increased motivation, and inclusion in school and working life. An important contribution to this will also be the new regulation for the research project on depression, which is out of consultation. It is important for students to spend more time in an enterprise to gain valuable experience in working life. It will also be a very important factor for students to be more motivated — for most professionals to participate in practical work. In addition, a further development of the FYR project, based on common subjects, professional correction and relevance, is given priority, and the government is targeted at raising the quality and status of professional subjects, so that more people can succeed in completing vocational training. As a teacher in the secondary school of daily life, I believe that overall there are a number of measures that are now being prioritised in this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3736	It is a narrow matter for the Church, Education and Research Committee at Stortinget to discuss school and education policy for hours. There are different priorities that separate the different parties, there are different solutions, and there might also be a slightly different level of knowledge. But when it comes to school, I think we still have to admit that we're very much in agreement, across party boundaries. But there is one field that is most likely to be developed as an area where there are still great ideological differences — and that is private school policy. I think that's right. Government parties opted for substantial liberalisation of the private school law. There has now been a proposal for consultation which is not a liberalisation to such an extent, but which aims to bring about a wider settlement in the United Kingdom. I think that's wise, and I'm very happy about that, and I'm excited about the treatment of the private school law in Stortinget. But even when we look at the budget, we see what the different parties say about fresh oils. And then here I get the idea that there's a lot of consensus. For the Christian People's Party, the starting point is clear. We need alternatives to public school, and we're committed to parental rights. Parents shall have the opportunity to choose a school for their children who are in line with their own moral, religious and philosophical beliefs, and this is a right that must apply to all. Then we're concerned that those boarding schools that we then believe have a legitimate place in our society, and that contribute to fulfilling this parental right, must also have good financial framework conditions to operate within. It is important for them not to take excessive student payments, so that colleges really do not just become an alternative to those who have slightly thicker wallets than others. This is something the department was also concerned about when it was red-green government. However, the red-green government removed the capital contribution to the primary schools in 2006. We got this back in again – as a cautious beginning, at least – last year. We got a boost this year. I note that the Labour Party does not remove it in its budget proposal, and I hope that I can take it as a sign that the Labour Party too now believes that we need to improve the financial framework conditions for the boarding schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3747	It is an example of so-called creative use of quotations when the representative Henrik Asheim from the Right says that the red-green people criticise the government for giving priority to continuing training too high. It's just that it's wrong. What we're criticising is that it's pretty much the only thing they really prioritize in the field of school. The continuing training effort has combined support here. The government would also be supported to invest in e.g. Early work and professionalism in its own budget, but it was therefore the opposition on the Stortinget, with the Left and Christian People's Party, which had to ensure that other efforts were made to the one great government. For students, the Workers' Party has a number of bets: mental health, living conditions, student housing and 11 months of study support. I'm really surprised at the criticism from the Right and the Advance Party, which criticises the Labour Party and the other red-greens in what way we choose to introduce something Right and the Advance Party is opposed. The natural way to introduce 11 months of study support is to do so from the academic year 2015/2016, i.e. for the whole year of study, so that students actually know what they have to do with. The criticism is also a little special in view of the fact that the Left proposes exactly the same as the red-green ones, i.e. from the academic year 2015/2016. When the representative Bente Thorsen says that with such a proposal, the students are wondering, it is a criticism that also affects the government's own partner, Left. It would have been interesting to know how the Left believes that the government claims that they agree to trick the students. I would also like to remind the Right and the Progressive Party that they voted against our proposal for increased study support last year. They're going to vote it down this year -- we're going to keep proposing it, because we're on the students team. So for student homes: after the agreement, the number of student homes receiving grants has increased. That's very good. I just want to say two things. Firstly, the number has increased, but this is probably the lowest amount spent on student housing for many years, because the grant model has changed. That means that the large costs will come in the next budget, and that is when the big test will come. What the Workers' Party is asking is whether we can give students, relationships and other predictability that this bet will continue, and that we will increase – not just continue, but increase – the investment up to 3,000 homes per year. The Labour Party has proposed a stepping-up plan to ensure this, so that we take the construction of student housing into the policy elite division, a commitment that can help solve the problem. We proposed this in ours – it was voted down. We're also proposing that this year – it's probably going to be voted down, but we're going to keep proposing it, because we're on the students' team.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3761	It is strange when more representatives from the Right and the Advance Party go to this pulpit and praise the budget we are adopting today. No one has talked so far and so much about the budget presented by the government, which is made up of the Right and the Advance Party. This must have been a party evening for the Left and Christian People's Party, for it is those who receive the honor of most, and, in my opinion, rightly. The local economy has also been honoured by the representatives of the Right Party and the Advance Party, and after Bente Thorsen’s contributions earlier today, I thought: If this is right, all municipalities must rejoice. But that's not what's in the country's newspapers, it's not the messages we get on our table. Last week I was at a meeting with several Hedemark municipalities, including those with the Right-Rapporteurs, and they told me about their concerns about the local economy and about cuts they now have to make. Then we can read in the media that there's schoolcuts all over the country. Some municipalities say that this is approaching the limit of what they think is right, and we hear about demonstrations in both Stavanger and Bergen, where all parents are concerned about the cuts that are now coming within, among other things. school. Then the party of progress is talking about Bente Thorsen running from election vows. I would like to stress that we hear this from the Advancement Party. As we would say in Hedmark: this is it's count to believe. There is certainly no party that has jumped to those degrees from their election vows after the election as just the Progress Party. A small visit also to the representative of Bjørnstad, who says that the Workers' Party is most concerned with buying handicrafts in London. Well, now it's the Progress Party that sits with the Finance Minister, and if they want to, it's just to sell those streets just when it had to suit themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3774	This budget harvest has been both informative and confusing at the same time, because we have seen how things work internally in the Workers' Party. When the Minister of Knowledge put forward a proposal for a budget, he proposed to test the needs of students in secondary school. Then the Workers' Party crashed and was opposed. Then they put forward their alternative state budget. That's what they were for. Then the four civil cooperation parties agreed not to need to test the alien grant. Then all of a sudden the Workers' Party was against it again. This is a kind of ongoing seminar that we have all been allowed to attend, and this was a seminar that only took place in the Workers' Party. It can be hard to imagine how it happened when they were going to negotiate with two other parties, in majority. The representative Trond Giske also went out on the Workers' Party's own website on the day the government budget came, criticizing the Minister of Knowledge for trying out the basics of high school. It is a need test that the Workers' Party has passed on both in its first and second alternative state budget, so there they seem to have landed at the same position as the government. The representative, Martin Henriksen, was somewhat surprised that this eternal promise of 11 months of study support was being criticised. It is worth remembering that the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party promised it for eight years in government, i.e. When they gathered at Soria Moria in 2009, there were three parties that were all for eleven months of study support, but they managed to get out of the negotiating room and negotiate what all three were for. After all, frustration becomes quite high in the students when one promises it every year in the opposition with words, but not a single penny. It is very easy for both the SV, the Center Party and the Workers' Party to grant an extra month right now. That's not having the eleventh month that's the point, that's a ten pst. increase in student support. I think the students appreciate real money, increased growth every year, instead of eleven months on the roof. Finally, when this government spends 1 billion. kr on continuing training of teachers, an amount that tends to be the same at all times when the Workers' Party makes its alternatives – they never go ahead, they always come after – well, the government takes a bill that the municipalities did not prioritize, because they could not afford it. The big difference with regard to the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left's continuing education policy is that you just take a bill the municipalities didn't take. That way, they can give it priority. But again, this shows the Workers' Party's education policy. They always come well after, but they never go ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3787	The representative Henriksen really asks if it is such that the government parties also criticize their partner Left to trick the students. When the government parties today have criticised the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre for not following up with money until what they have talked about, eleven months of study support, I see it as criticism of the Workers' Party, and at least it takes this representative with crushing calm. We have done exactly what the Labour Party has done – put in eleven months of study support, but it does not have an economic impact this financial year. What is the difference, and as I think the representative Asheim gave quite well, is that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have been sitting for eight years in a majority government where everyone was for it, but there was no money from it. One so that it was put in after the election was lost, and before the budget was presented. There are some small shades there that make me not immediately want to say that the government parties criticize the Left for having submitted study support. Another thing is that the government parties know very well that the left is for eleven months of student support, and that we are actually fighting to get a better student support. But it's not just student support that's important for the students. I think we've done a lot of good in other areas that are very important to students. These are student housing, which we are now delivering, in line with the programme of the Left – 2,000 student homes – a very important measure, with which they are also very pleased. We have agreed with the budgetary agreement that we should have a pilot project at Sex and Samfunn centres in Stavanger and Oppland, which is linked to student health. This shall be done in cooperation with student relations. The left had in its alternative budget set off a 15-million pot. for projects related to the SHOT study, the interconnections could apply for. That's one of the things I'm thinking about at least we in the left will work on. The study shows that there are a much higher number of students with severe psychiatric symptoms. Especially hit this woman, and that's something we have to take seriously. Although we've put these Sex and Societal Centers in place two places, there's something we need to have greater ambitions to do, because it's important for those students who are struggling with different things.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3801	I want to make two reflections as we approach the end of this debate. Several of the representatives have been in the Nobel Peace Prize distribution yesterday – two Peace Prize winners who both live by Nelson Mandela’s words that education is the most important weapon if we want to achieve change in the world. I have said in many respects that I am proud that we have a government that has an ambitious knowledge policy. I'm proud that there's a good budget, with a strong commitment to school and research. I would like to say, although it does not really belong in the area of the KUF Committee, that I am proud that our government is, in fact, so committed to the development of knowledge and competence in aid and development policy as well. It shows to me a consistency in our policy areas. When we are betting on school and education at home to build the country and equip Norway for the future, we are also betting on school and education to combat poverty, extremism and discrimination. It shows action, focus and implementation. It shows a government that sees the importance of ensuring value creation and development. But above all, it shows a government that understands that knowledge and development of competences are about people and people's ability to reach their potential. So another thing: I've noticed in the debate that the Workers' Party would like to talk down and away the government's strong commitment to continuing education. But when the government in the first year has actually tripled the investment in this area, I think that either the Workers' Party and the other red-greens recognize it or not, this is a historical commitment to quality in school. In addition, the budget agreement is set at 50 million. SEK to a new level of competence for non-qualified teaching staff at school, and there will be five-year master’s training from 2017. The government wants teachers to have the weight and security of the subjects they teach. The teacher shall be the specialist in the classroom. No one else can take that role in school. Here lies the core of the Teacher Lift. It's this government now following up, and it's affordable to keep focus on. To those who think it is strange to use the budgetary agreement as a reference in the debate: Yes, the budget we are about to adopt today is four cooperation parties behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3818	I'm typing at 90 pst. The debate has been about the snow as a fall last year. What if we could follow the best practice and stick to "You'll get a day in a hurry that's clean and unused", and just discuss what we're going to do in the future? That would be a nice discussion. That would be an entirely parallel value. I want to talk about research. About 70 pst. Norwegian exports are related to petroleum-related industries. Not only does it paint a picture of the Norwegian economy that is very little forward-looking and environmental-oriented, but it also makes Norway particularly vulnerable. We're not as petrodependent as Kuwait, but we don't have to go any further than the United Arab Emirates to find an economy that is as one-sided. They don't have 70 pst, they have 67 pst. petroleum-oriented by its economy. Think, changes in one price can fill an entire newsweek, send the price and interest to the bottom and the value and endanger large parts of the industry and workshops. Norway has a precarious need to plan a new course, which makes Norwegian business more often and more environmentally friendly. There is little in this year's budget that is close to representing powerful initiatives to lift other industries and equip Norway for the future, as the phrase goes. A cut in the wealth tax for the wealthiest is the big one-off effort, but it has professionals far too far-reachingly rejected as less accurate than just making the rich rich richer. Then it is a great paradox for me that no one in this room agrees with SV that it should be important for research. Why should we use public funds for research that aims to extend the oil age? Why does the great plural support it? Part of oil-related research goes to HMS, e.g., in offshore. It's important research. But I'm talking about the research where the intention is to extend the oil age, as the purpose of the Petromax 2 program is. In particular, the environmental parties are not included in SV's proposals. It's also special that the right hand side, which is otherwise so busy with public funds, is not targeted. What if we could use these funds for researching renewable energy sources, which can help lift an industry that is not close to having the same potential as the big petro industry to research? What if we could raise the free groundbreaking research, the one that we don't know what will give, but that we know will be decisive for what the future society will be like? Here, too, there should be a connection between words and action. The transition to the Norwegian economy from being comparable to the combined Arab Emirates to becoming a viable economy is only possible if it also affects knowledge policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3833	Martin Henriksen has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3836	The representative Asheim's creative use of quotations is soon becoming so extensive that I have to ask him to include documentation in the room on all the claims he makes, for example. in the case of refugees. Trond Giske wrote on the homepage of the Workers' Party, after the state budget was presented, that the government had one big initiative – continuing training. Swallowed teachers had to pay the students for through the cuts the government did. It is natural that the Workers' Party will also have more bets, and that makes us visible through our alternative budget. That we also spend more money and adjust the sums after the agreement, is not so very strange when the government finds hundreds of millions in modified estimates, construction, etc. Of course, the Workers' Party should also use them. It is not that it is the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the private money of the Left, or does the representative, Asheim, think that we should take them out of the budget and spend them on handicrafts in London? Finally, I would like to say: I note that the representative Nybø has become so happy in the Advancement Party that she takes with her crushing calm that the representative Thorsen from the Progress Party also characterised the Left's proposal as tricking the students. Then I just have to end by quoting Prøysen: ‘It’s good for you to philosophers When a woman’s people are able to change than you do’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3848	Bente Thorsen has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3851	It was Henriksen's comment on eleven months of student support for the students who made me take the floor. I have to say it's a very impressive care that the Workers' Party now shows to the students, when they're in opposition. It's just so sad that they didn't use the same opportunity and took care of it when they put in power for eight years, because then they had the full opportunity to do this. In order for the representative Henriksen to get it in with teaspoons, I think it is important to clarify that there is a difference between the Left and the Workers' Party. The left has not been in position, which has allowed them to grant 11 months of student support. On the other hand, this has been done by the Working Party and the other Red-Greens. Thus, you shoot with cannons when you accuse the Left of being involved in this. Now it is also the case that the Right-Fremskritspart-government has increased the study support by 3.1 pst. In addition, we have increased the credit card limit for the students, as well as even more benefits. I think the students see who [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3860	The number is out. Henrik Asheim has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3865	It's received! I was asked by Martin Henriksen to provide documentation. It was so nice that you asked for it, because I brought documentation – the quote from Trond Giske is on the Labour Party's own website! I'm absolutely sure Martin Henriksen also has that address, but I'll read the quote: ‘Last year, Minister of Knowledge Torbjørn Røe Isaksen removed the students’ cultural school to finance other purposes.’ [[...]] So that's a cut they're on this year. Further: ‘This year, he is joining the scholarship of high school students to pay the bill.’ So the quote is actually a little bit better than I was supposed to show you for the first time. And once again, you're not responding to this with eleven months of study support. That is, the Labour Party, SV and the Center Party are hiding behind budgetary techniques. If you'd thought the students would have 10 pst. For the first time, you would have found the money in the eight red-green budgets when you had a majority, and then you would have found it in the first and second alternative budget you provided. You have not done so, and those promises are not for believers!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3886	The President must remind the last two speakers that all speeches must be addressed to the President and not to the representatives in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3889	That was a good quote. It was about all the school effort of the new government being taken from the school budget, and that is what illustrates the point: We are aggressively betting, with fresh money. It is interesting in this debate that there is simply no one defending the school budget of the government; there is absolutely no one talking about the budget that the Right Party and the Advance Party put forward was good enough when it came to school. It was a sad performance for the Minister of Knowledge. No one defends a budget with no regard to early action. No one defends a budget with no regard to bullying. No one defends a budget without anything in terms of teacher's density. No one defends a budget with no regard to the teacher's time. No one defends a budget of only 98 million. kr in net growth: it is a net cut in areas other than continuing education. New solutions and new ideas have been put in the drawer. Even Henrik Asheim spends most of his speaking time on the Labour Party budget. Anders Tyvand from Vestfold has received twice as much increase in the knowledge budget with his campaign on increasing teacher density between 1 and 4. steps than the Minister of Knowledge himself has had at two budgetary conferences and numerous government conferences. It tells us a little bit about a historically weak minister of knowledge who is presenting a school budget this year. And not enough with it: he doesn't even get through here in the hall all the cuts he's suggesting. So not only in the government, he has a historically weak impact, even here in the Grand Duchy, the Minister of Knowledge is simply put under administration. He will be governing next year after a knowledge budget that is fundamentally different from what the Right in Government put forward. So here's the crutch to the current. Knowledge policy is laid down by a very different majority in this Chamber. Bente Thorsen was inside our budget. She thought we were lower on the knowledge budget than the conciliation itself did. By the way, Henrik Asheim believes that it is so terrible that we ‘only’ are 633 million. I would like to say a few words about how poor the budget that the Right and the Advance Party themselves put forward was. All right, 50 million. kr has moved to the municipal budget in the case of continuing education and training, so just that we are well above it. In addition, we have a formidable bet on, among other things. Apprenticeship grants, higher education equipment packages and other things – on the municipal budget – so we have a total of 1.3 billion. kr over the government's proposal, and SEK 0.5 billion. kr over the conciliation. Finally, the Minister of Knowledge has highlighted things that do not create change — a bullying law that does not change the law, character requirements without character requirements, skills requirements that do not come before 2029 — a lot of talk and little action. Let me end by quoting the Prøysen: «The nutmeg makes so many strange jumps, from three to three, and stems down and up, forgets the school and everything; he makes throws and bounces and scatters, picks many fine nuts; he is a nut-tank himself.»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3905	Kristin Vinje has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3909	Then I get to use my little minute to say that ‘in reverse country, where everything can go on’, for the spouse of twisting and turning on how the Right Party and the Advance Party talk about the government budget, I have never heard of it. If the workers' party representatives have not heard that we have spoken well about the government's budget for school in terms of the Teacher's promise, for higher education in terms of strengthening the student's workforce and the higher education sector, and for research in terms of a formidable effort both in excellent environments and on many good strengths of nutrition research – such as the BIA, as the TaxFUNN, as a commitment to enabling the technologies, etc. – I don't get it. To Knag Fylkesnes, I want to say: this budget is about the future – it's about equipping yourself for a future, it's about investing in research, it's about investing in infrastructure, and it's about reducing taxes, so that we can keep jobs in the future, because that's actually what we live on.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3916	I would like to say thank you for a good debate and just comment on a few of the recordings that have come. I agree when it is said that there is a need for further education for the professions. I think it's good that the bulk of the population is impatient with that. And that's absolutely right, we're following up Report. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. Liv Signe Navarsete boasts of the High Sphere in Sogn and Fjordane. Right there you should listen to her – that's where she knows very well what she's talking about. At the High School in Sogn and Fjordane, they're very nice, and that's probably one of the reasons why the schools are doing well there. This is something we have to do with any aggregation. Karin Andersen is concerned about merciless measurement. As far as I know, there are many of the things described in the Newspaper Chronicle, educational tools that teachers and the school themselves have chosen. Very familiar is not something that is imposed, or that is intended to be done. I believe that the teachers must have the freedom to choose their own pedagogical approach. But I agree that we should be careful that we measure and weigh so much that we lose the core of the school, namely the knowledge. So to what some of us might think about in this debate -- or that might not be so strange, because the Workers' Party chose to stand outside the Department of Knowledge for eight long years and gave the Department to SV. It is clear in some of the confusion that currently prevails in the Workers' Party's knowledge policy. In many areas they are quiet as oysters, for example. in the structural debate. We hear little about the views of the Workers' Party on research policy. We know what the real growth in research policy was in the last three years – it was minus growth one of the years. Now it's a formidable increase. In other areas, the Workers' Party has had several different positions during a short harvest, I have mentioned the residency grant. I accept that there is disagreement with the Workers' Party about the national colleges and the short courses, but it is nice to get criticism when the Workers' Party itself was involved and supported in its alternative budget, for example. cut from ten to nine months of school support. Similarly, it's funny to hear the Workers' Party talk about a lift for student housing, when it had to go all the way to the financial position in their alternative budget – once again, the majority who led it – before they put in as many student homes as the majority. Let's just learn that there's now a new political situation. It is not that there are three red-green parties inside a government office – and then they come to Stortinget with a finished arrangement. We have a historic cooperation agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, a cooperation agreement that we can all be proud of. It is a knowledge-friendly majority, which, among other things: has led to the highest level of R & D investment in the past – which was, moreover, a strong investment in the government’s budget – which has led to a strong teacher’s lift and which has led to a new and high level of investment in the UH institutions. We see that the Workers' Party has had to come crawling through the autumn – in areas by area.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3935	State Council Røe Isaksen says it's up to the individual teacher to choose the method. No, it's not like that. The example I referred to is how the school owner, and in this case the municipality of Oslo, governs. It says in the chronicle that I pointed out that it is not up to the individual teacher to decide how the school's measurement and assessment work is to be carried out. Reasons have been requested from both the principal and the school bureau, but no answers have been received. To date, more people have mentioned the situation in Sandefjord, which triggered some of the teacher’s strikes. That's the exact same thing that's being told there. You use measurement methods where you don't just have to judge the student all the time, you also need the student to judge himself. This is that you should put grades on yourself, like, "I'm not good enough for this," very often ruins the education of many children. I think the Minister of Knowledge understands this very well, because I don't think he shares the knowledge behind these types of measurements. What is important to understand is that the school should develop maritime respect and abilities. You have to learn to take care of yourself and others and be able to be safe to dry out with greater boldness in many areas of life. If you're going to be trained that you're not good enough, and that you have to keep judging yourself – what about children like that. come from immigrant families? The teachers in Sandefjord told of how the students should characterize themselves in how they, for example, were doing so. have been able to participate on an outdoor day in Norway. Children who came straight from abroad as refugees were supposed to characterize themselves in how they had managed to contribute well on this trip. The reason I'm dealing with this is because I think the Minister of Knowledge needs to be interested in how this measurement system is developing in the schools. It's not like it's up to the individual learner to do this. The teachers are pressured to do that, they won't, because they will take the time to help the students grow as humans and to develop both a good sense of sea and a desire to learn. You learn a lot of different ways, and then it's very important that the school is able to make it easier for students to learn in different ways. This judgment of students, judged both by themselves and by the teacher, hardly brings anything good with them. I am one of those who have had problems reading, and I remember very well the times the feedback was negative. They haven't made me a better person.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3948	Trond Giske has spoken twice earlier in the debate, and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3951	I notice that the historically weak minister of knowledge now believes that the cooperation agreement between the Christian People's Party and the Left and the government is also historic: so there is no end to what is historic. When the Minister of Knowledge asked for the word for a new three-minute post, his second post for the day, I thought he would talk about the draft budget that he had submitted. He didn't now either. He said in an earlier post that the budget was not finished, for now the process has moved to Stortinget. That's right, but his budget was over. The Minister of Knowledge had made his proposal on what the knowledge budget would look like in 2015. The government had presented its proposal. It was done with the matter. Now it was the government parties in the Grand Duchy, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, who came up with a budget. Fortunately, they came up with something quite different from what the Minister of Knowledge had presented. Unfortunately, the head of the Federation says that such a budget is unacceptable — not least under a government that raised school as one of its main issues during the election campaign. It's the school that gets soft, for both the community layout and the budget that's being adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3958	Sivert Bjørnstad has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3961	There are a few things hanging in the air after this relatively good debate. First of all, with eleven months of study support: there is no requirement from the students that this increase should come in July. The students are busy with 10 pst. increase over the whole year. The working party delivered few pro-mills during their eight years in government. Had that rate continued, they had to sit for 60 years to have reached 10 pst. increase. Finally, with minority government and majority rule: it seems that the Labour Party representatives are indignant that we are talking about the settlement. Of course you have to talk about the deal, but 98-99 pst. of the Minister of Knowledge's budget is, of course, firm. It's left after the agreement. It is clear that we need to talk about the conciliation, which is the budget that – together with the original one – will be adopted here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3970	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3976	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e3983	A total of 16 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party proposals No. 2-11, by Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, proposals Nos. 12 and 13, by Else-May Botten, on behalf of the Labour Party, proposal No. 14, from Pål Farstad on behalf of the Left, proposal No. 15, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 16, from Torgair Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 14 from the Left, in the course of the debate, has been turned into a transmission proposal and reads as follows: ‘The size of the budget recommends to the government within the adopted appropriations of Chapter 2421, items 51, 53 of the State budget for 2015 to establish a new nationwide seed fund of 400 million in state and private capital as soon as possible. A pre-seed fund aimed at TTOs and incubators of SEK 200 million in State and private capital shall also be established. The size asks the government to come back with facilities and, where appropriate, other clarifications, including budgeting, in connection with the RNB 2015 relating to the pre-seed fund.’;» The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without any responsibilities. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 16 from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The biggest demand is for the next two seed funds to be located in North Norway and the West respectively.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e4028	There is a vote on proposal No. 15 from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to set a clear deadline for Norwegian chicken and poultry production to be free of antibiotic resistant bacteria.’ The Greens have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e4047	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12 and 13 on behalf of the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess schemes that are more likely to facilitate business start-ups such as MOSH in Oslo, Mess & Order in Stavanger and Flow in Tromsø.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to extend today’s Innovation Norway pilot project for business angels to a national strategy.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e4071	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3, 4, 6 and 11 from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to suspend the conversion of Innovation Norway until the Storting has received a major notification of the instrument, including Innovation Norway.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to maintain the scheme of grants to the Purchasing Consortium for the purchase of power.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The size of the government in the context of the revised 2015 national budget calls for action for the Stortinget where SIVA’s objectives are adjusted for the purpose of investing in pilot and demonstration facilities, in line with the intentions set out in the Report. St. 22 Growth Tool [[2011-2012]] In this context, reference is made to Input. [[2011-2012]] 365 S Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The majority agrees that the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries in 2015 may: 1. sell shares in SAS AB in the context of an industrial solution. 2. reduce the State’s holding in SAS AB to 7,5 pst. in the case of future conversions of debt securities into share capital in the company.’ Socialist Left Party has notified that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e4114	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2, 5 and 7-10 from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to develop a bioeconomy strategy in cooperation between industry, organisations and the government, promoting overall and concrete measures to strengthen the bioeconomy. The strategy will be promoted during 2015.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to the Stortinget in the context of the revised National Budget for 2015 with a plan for the creation of new seed funds.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The size requests the government in the announced revision of the production grant regulation to continue the current provision on formal joint interests as a basis for cutting production subsidies and to ensure that the production grant in agriculture cannot be granted to limited liability companies and cooperatives. This is important in order to prevent vertical integration and ensure personal and local ownership of Norwegian agriculture. Any proposals for changes are promoted for the size of the notified agricultural notification.» Proposal No. 8 says: ‘The government is asking the government to develop a bioeconomy strategy in cooperation between industry, organisations and the government, promoting overall and concrete measures to strengthen the bioeconomy. The strategy will be promoted during 2015.’ Proposal No. 9 reads: ‘The government asks the government to change the name of the Food and Veterinary Authority.’ Proposal No. 10 reads: ‘The government is asking the government to stop the notified privatisation process of State Forest, including the work being done in State Forest to investigate the privatisation of the forest business.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e4158	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget requests the continuation of the Agricultural and Food Ministry’s arrangements for cooperation agreements with non-governmental organisations.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e4168	The President makes it clear that this is a sharp vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e4171	The left also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e4176	The Left has also announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e7339	The Committee's position on A XV is first voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e7349	A vote is taken on the Committee's position on the rest of A and on B and C. The President makes it clear that XVI under A is not in the vote because this Roman number in the incurrency setting has come twice and is equal to XIV under A. The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e7365	The Committee shall be consulted on the position to be taken on D. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party have notified that they support the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e8648	It is first voted over in Chapter 2421, item 70. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e8663	The Committee shall then vote for the remainder of the Committee's position on I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e8770	A total of 11 proposals were put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-5, by Trond Giske, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 6-11, from Torgair Knag County, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 10 from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to come back with measures to reduce the temporaryity of scientific staff in higher education and research. Financial penalties shall be assessed.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e8796	The proposals are then put to the vote. 6 and 9 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce a teacher resource standard for the entire primary school.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess the total amount of public research aid in order to reduce its contribution to the promotion of petroleum industries and to promote more renewable and forward-looking industries.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e8820	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7 and 8 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess the establishment of the SKAP National Colleges in the municipality of Mandal and the Shunkhatten in the municipality of Fauske.’ Proposal No. 8 reads: ‘The government asks the government to assess the role of the study centres and training centres in parallel with the further work on structure in higher education and research.’ The Central Party has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e8844	There is a vote on proposal No. 11 from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the promotion of a strategy for the lifting of competences in kindergartens as we currently have primary and secondary education.’ The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e8863	The proposals from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left are being voted on. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking to return to Stortinget in 2015 with proposals to introduce letters of practice as part of the offer structure in secondary education, with a county municipal obligation to offer letters of practice.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish a national competence register as the basis for an extended ID card scheme in the construction industry. The register is managed by Vox.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the prompt start of work on the next student life course survey.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e8890	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 5 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a stepping-up plan for the construction of student housing.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for 11 months of study support during the current ageing period.’ The Greens have announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e11869	The Committee's position on the whole of A is the first to be voted on. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e11883	It goes over B.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-11.ana.ud2111e11902	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
