ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e199	Two permit applications are available: on the leave of the representative of Mr Sonja Mandt on 19 and 20 June to attend the Parliamentary Baltic Conference in Lithuania of the representative of Mr Arild Grande on parental leave on 19 and 20 June On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representatives of the Vara, for the Nord-Trøndelag counties of Jorid Holstad Nordmelan and for the Vestfold counties of Steinar Gullvåg, are called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e231	Jorid Holstad Nordmelan and Steinar Gullvåg are present and will take the seat. The representative Per Olaf Lundteg will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e236	It is a pleasure to make two proposals, the first from Marit Arnstad and myself on measures for a knowledge-based natural management, and the second from me to facilitate the convening of new state councils under Section 75h of the Constitution for consultation in the Stortingen on the professional background.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e241	The representative of Ola Elvestuen will also put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e244	I am delighted on behalf of myself, André N. Skkelstad and Terje Breivik to present a proposal for a representative on the role of DIFI in environmental and social responsibility in public acquisitions. Then I also have a proposal from myself, Trine Skei Grande, Terje Breivik and Abid Q. Raja to give municipalities concrete tools to reduce air pollution and climate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e251	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e267	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e281	The procedures for determining wages and salaries have for several years been added to a Commission, which sets out the salaries of the Grand Duchy, the Government and the Supreme Court according to what they think is right in relation to wage developments elsewhere in society. This way the Storting has done it for a long time, and SV has been critical of it, because there is one way in which the Storting is trying not to take political responsibility for the level of wages we have. We put it over to others, while we have to vote over it anyway. In practice, it is the Storting that has to adopt its wages; no one else can do so. For several years, SV has taken up proposals, as we have wanted a wider discussion of how the level of salary of the Storting should actually develop in relation to the rest of society. There may be different opinions about this, but SV believes it is important that our wages do not increase by a percentage, because then our wages in dollars will move from the average in the population. Great pay is good – they have to be. But there's no reason why the Storting should have a salary level that makes us live in a completely different reality than the average population that we're set to rule over and to be part of and facilitate so that it's possible for everyone with completely different financial assumptions than us to have a good life in this society. For a number of years, we have suggested that we do not have pay supplements. For example, during the financial crisis, there was no reason why the Storting should have increased wages when there was a great deal of uncertainty elsewhere. In normal years, we believe that the principle must be that we have a crown supplement, and that we calculate what is the average crown supplement for the other groups of society that have got their paychecks through. Of course, once we've calculated this, we've taken into account pay-rolling, overtime — all sorts of technical calculations — which means that we're going to land on a proper number. But the important thing about the principle and the proposal we are promoting today is that there is an annual crowning amount in the increase in average earnings in Norway. We discussed the agricultural situation a few days ago. Then several parties were very concerned that when you were going to close the pay gap, there was a raise in the crown. I also have a relatively long seagoing time in the trade movement. There we were very concerned that it was going to be additions, because percentages on a high number are a lot of money, while percentages on a low number are little money. Some people think it's equal to wage developments when social welfare recipients get 5 pst. pay increase like when we get it. I have a deep disagreement. No one goes to the store and trades with those percentages. That's the heads we can pay for our food, our rent and other expenses. That's the way it is for everyone. Therefore, it is most reasonable and correct that the Storting has an increase in earnings, which is determined on the basis of an increase in the annual crowning amount of an average salary in Norway. That is what we are proposing today. We also promote concrete suggestions about what it means in dollars and cents. We hope that the Storting will consider this seriously, because we believe that it should be a very correct and important signal to send to people that in terms of percentage calculation, which can be an advantage for each of us as individuals, as we get a little bit more money, we nevertheless adhere to the principles we believe are right, namely that it should be a crown supplement that is equal, and not that we through our way of calculating it gets more than others. This is also a proposal that meets those who think we should have a wage trend in line with others, because this is in line with others. In any case, those who feel close to the left side of Norwegian policy and the trade union movement should seriously consider this, because it is traditionally the way you have thought when negotiating wages, not to increase the differences between groups, but, on the contrary, to try to reduce them over time. Of course, it is also the SV's political objective that we should have less economic differences. Then it is important that the Storting has a payroll system that is in line with it and that does not increase the salaries of the Storting more than the average of the other gets in their payroll.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e296	The President interprets it as that the representative has taken up the proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e299	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e304	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e307	It is a unanimous presidency that is presenting this proposal for wage adjustment for government and big business. It's a proposal based on the starting point of the payroll commission and the system we've been using for the payroll adjustments over a few years. The adjustment is at 3.3 pst., which is the same as calculated as annual salary growth in both government and local government as in the private sector for the period we are in. With regard to Andersen's posts, I would like to comment that I believe that the experience we have with today's system, i.e. with a payroll commission, is useful. There was a reason that the scheme once existed. The pay discussion in the United Kingdom became difficult. It also became difficult in relation to the public because it set its own salaries without having a kind of corrective body that was invited to have an opinion on the level of pay. And it's not like we're depriving ourselves of responsibility for the decision, we're actually making the decision, and at this moment we have a debate about it. I think that's important to emphasize. So what we get from the payroll commission is a piece of advice that we can choose to follow or not follow. So, of course, it can be convenient just to land on it and do it completely without any reflection, but I think we have experience that there is reflection around this. We have a debate on it almost at every crossroad. I believe that it is perfectly legitimate, in this case for the SVs, to believe that we have too high wages on Stortinget. Personally, I don't think we have it. I think the salaries at Stortinget are at a level that makes sense in relation to the responsibility we bear, the work we do, and that, let's say, the position of bearing the responsibility that we have as a magnification representative is. It should also be reflected in what salary is taken into account. Whether we should switch to another system, for example. that instead of percentage regulation, it is a slightly larger question that I think needs to be investigated in more detail, but for my part I cannot see why we should have a different system here than what is most common for determining wages and salaries. Whether by percentageing we bring ourselves into a kind of spiral that allows us to withdraw from low pay groups is something we can also regulate in the annual debate that we have on this. I would also like to mention that it is a point that we are not slowing down either, because it is important that we have a salary level that, as I said, reflects the responsibility of a wholesaler, and as I think it is important to stress that it is the responsibility of a wholesaler. So I don't think the presidency is going to take any initiative to add up to another system for this in the future -- at least I won't. I believe that the adjustment we are making this year is justified, and, as I said, in line with the developments we have seen in this year's pay bill for the rest of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e324	I'm talking on my own. I totally agree with SV. I see no reason why we should not prejudge a wage policy that is in line with that trade movement and some others claim, namely that one should have a crown supplement so as not to increase the pay gap in Norway. It may be extra important now to go in for crown supplements because a person experiences and sees a policy that also gives tax cuts to those with the highest incomes. Ergo gets both a wage formation that increases differences and a tax policy that increases differences; it doubles. I am not afraid that the proposal for the SV will be poor by the bigotry representatives, the state councils or the prime minister. NOK 850 000 for a deposit representative is probably approx. twice as much as a nurse earns, and 1.2 million. kr to a government council is probably approx. Three times more than a nurse earns, and 1.5 – then you approach four times. I think you can afford both butter on the food and a little more with those salaries. If one then gets a supplement based on the average wage growth in society, it'll be constant. So I'm not afraid that someone is suing after – if it's slowing down after someone as a staging representative has twice as much in wages as, for example. and nurse. But of course, one is slowing down after those who have the very best wages in society, and perhaps the leaders. This might be a signal to some others in terms of wage formation, that now we're going ahead and showing the way and working actively to get a crown supplement, which is the usual thing in pay settlement, and not a percentage supplement. Because it's clear that a percentage supplement to a salary of one million, or two, is going to be someone quite different than the same percentage supplement to a normal employee income or what a social welfare beneficiary gets. I don't see this either as a lifting of the payroll commission. This is just a new mandate for the Wage Commission, a much better mandate for the Wage Commission and a much fairer mandate for the Wage Commission – a mandate that means that we do not contribute to increasing the pay gap and social disparities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e335	I'm a new magnificent and I think the pay here at Stortinget is fine. I'm neither poor nor rich to be here. I think it's very important that you stick to the principle of percentage additions, precisely because you're also supposed to be able to recruit large-scale representatives from the wider community, and not just those who have the salary level that's reflected as normal. Maybe someone thinks it's high here on the Storting, as I understand SV. I think that it's not easy to get rid of half the house so that one should be here for four years. One must have room for someone to spend a lot of money, and that not the entire salary is going to go to the store and shop. One has failed in all other expenses – even before one came to Stortinget – and one must be able to take care of the private interests one has for as long as one is a staging representative. So I think we have to go for the system that is, and don't add up to any new race.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e346	The next speaker is the representative Karin Andersen, who now has a speaking time of up to 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e349	Thank you, President, it's a voice with speaking time today! First, I would like to say thank you to the Grandfather who opens up for the opportunity to discuss this. I think that's good, because several of the other times we've discussed this, the tone has been different. It's good that it's allowed to reflect on this. The fact that the Grand President is also so clear that the Storting must actually take these decisions, that we should not blindly follow the payroll commission, and that we are responsible for the decision being taken, regardless of what the payroll commission has said, I am very pleased, because that means that we have a different climate of debate around this. I'm very happy about that. So I didn't say we have too high wages, but I said I think they're high enough. I agree that the salaries at Stortinget should be fairly good, but I'm a little uncomfortable with the debate on responsibility, because there are very many positions in society that have a significantly lower salary level than what we have, which is also responsible, actually for life and death for people. So I think it's a difficult debate. I've, when I'm going to talk about this, in a little popular way said that whoever can't live off the payroll can't control money. And I mean that. There are many people who have lower wages than us, who also have expenses, who have mortgages, who have student loans, and who may also lose their jobs. In this house we sit and decide what those who lose the job are going to do in benefits – or those who lose their health and the job at the same time. One of the important arguments here is that we're going to have a salary that's good, that's good, that's good, that's good, that's good, that's good, that's good without economic concern, when you're a magnificent, but it can't be an economic world other than the majority of the population we're going to rule. That's where the comparison should go – not the other way. That is quite right: what we are proposing now is another assignment to the payroll commission – to the extent that a simpler assignment too – and it will help to ensure that we do not withdraw from the Storing. The percentage is that if you calculate percent of a high number, you get a high dollar amount. If you count percent of a small number, you get a very low crown amount. It's heads, the difference in money that you have, that make up the economic differences, not the percentage. I think it's pretty uninteresting for someone who has to live on a low performance, has lost the job, or has a very low salary, whether there's a growth of 3 pst. or 4 pst. That's the heads that count. I guess that's why someone here wants us to keep that system, because it gives more money. We disagree that we're going to have a system that allows the technique we're using to give us a higher cost than the average.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e366	This is an interesting debate. I understand the point of the representatives Karin Andersen and Freddy de Ruiter, and I think it's interesting that you now want to change the system after you've left the government. It may not be so surprising that you come up with such a populist representation. So that's the party that's been more honest in these questions. But what I wonder about is why you don't show the solidarity that you think others should show. It is true that those who are highly paid – they were concerned that they seemed to earn too much and had too much remuneration – can only give up this money, in solidarity with the nurses and all the others. You could possibly use this money you have received to give it away. No, they can't – Karin Andersen shakes his head – it's completely impossible to do. But if you have such good advice that you don’t need the money, why in the world do you have to burden poor taxpayers on the whole country and those who have low wages, who also have to pay taxes and taxes, because – according to Karin Andersen – they can pay too much compensation to the depositors? So I'm going to encourage Karin Andersen to give you the money. Give them for a good purpose. Send it over to the nurses' union or someone else.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e378	Still, all the speeches are going through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e381	I shall be very brief, because I think the representative Thommess has explained well what is the presidency's position. There is more to the precision of terms and language formulation. So they don't have any pay. Skulling representatives have compensation. Storing representatives also have no position and are not in a job code. We have a job. It's based on trust. Lover is not indicative in this country, and the Working Environment Act applies to people with a job. But for us it doesn't. For representatives, the Working Environment Act does not apply, and we have seen no regulated working time. When it is always mentioned in the report that representatives have a salary and a position, it is not of the type of names that belong to representatives. It is about trust, it is about compensation, it is about employment, and it is therefore no regulated working time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e390	It's a little strange to be called populistic because if an attempt is made to raise a fundamental debate about the differences in Norwegian society, including the remunerations of the big business representatives. It must actually be law without being called populist. If it's populism, I can live with that label from Tybring-Gjedde. The argument of giving away I've heard before. That's the most populist argument. But one could perhaps intend to return the challenge to the representative Tybring-Gjedde. Maybe we should all go in to set aside the excess amount – we could do it here today – so the difference between the SV proposal and the proposal adopted by the payroll commission, and then you could agree to set that amount aside for a good purpose. If Tybring-Gjedde would agree to that, it could be a straightforward solution. But that's not what this is all about. This is about whether we're going to contribute to increasing pay differentials in Norwegian society, or whether we're going to go ahead and be clear that crown supplements are the kind of pay-fixing we want in our society to contribute to not increasing the differences, and not increasing the differences between us and people the most. I stress again that I represent myself and not the Workers' Party in this matter, so there will be no misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e401	I really didn't intend to take the floor in the debate – I sat here waiting for someone else. I just want to say, that we're not on that very wrong track, indicates two things. The first is that almost everyone who's had the word has said that they think we're at about the right level. We don't earn too much, and we don't earn too little. And the press release is empty. That means there's not a big debate out there in society about whether big business representatives serve too much or serve too little. We are not a country where you have representatives who serve so little that you have discussions about whether someone is corrupt. Neither are we a country where we serve so much that we are told to have a distance from the people. The vast majority of us who are sitting in this room today have gone or taken the trick to the Norwegian potion. That means we're not so bad out driving, seen in relation to those we're set to be trustees of, and the job we do. So we're not going to turn this up into a much harder debate than it is. What I think is important is that we are constantly on guard against that difference becoming too big. That's why I think Karin Andersen's articles are quite ok to have a discussion about. But right now I think we're on the right track. There's no gap between those we're chosen for, and those we're going to represent, which is so big that it can't be defended, but I think it's important that we have a debate all along on how to find the right tipping point. If you look at the salaries of parliamentarians and parliamentarians around the world, there is no link between good parliamentarians and good wages. The good balance is when you have a balance between what you have, in a somewhat equal society, and trust-chosen people who feel they're getting paid for the job they're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e410	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e424	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e438	In the proposal for a representative we are now discussing, the representative and the prime minister, Olemic Thommess, are proposing to establish a new national human rights institution that is being organised under the Stortinget and linked to the Civil Ombudsman. The Presidency agrees that it is a good solution for the National Institute for Human Rights to be reestablished as a body governed by the Storting. The Presidency further believes that the Stortinget has a responsibility to contribute to ensuring that human rights are upheld in Norway. We do that both by agreeing to the ratification of Norway's international obligations and by ensuring that the government follows up the human rights obligations of society towards its citizens. The size of the population has just adopted constitutional changes aimed at strengthening the place of human rights in society. The Presidency believes that an active and outspoken national institution for human rights can be an important instrument both to contribute to increased awareness of human rights in general and to focus on human rights issues in public vocabulary. The Presidency believes that it is in line with the role and responsibility of the Grand Duchy to commit itself to setting up a new national institution for human rights. The organisation of the institution during the Storting process will also contribute to the institution’s prominent status as such. The Presidency departs from the draft representative on an essential point. This concerns the link with the Civil Ombudsman. The Presidency has received a number of recordings, such as: pointed to less fortunate experience in the fact that the Centre for Human Rights has also acted as a national institution, and the recommendations given to the Presidency by several teams have been to establish an independent institution with its own identity without formal links with the Civil Ombudsman. These recommendations follow the presidency of the current suspension. The Presidency has stressed the independence and independence of national institutions. This is a central element of the UN principles for national institutions, called the Paris principles. In the nomination, the Presidency advocates the establishment of a new national human rights institution under the auspices of the Stortinge — in other words, without formal links with the Civil Ombudsman. Let me make it clear that Vice-President Kenneth Svendsen had primarily wanted to place a national institution directly under the Civil Ombudsman, as an extension of the Ombudsman's human rights mandate as a national prevention mechanism. However, the representative, Mr Svendsen, substantially supports the proposal in today's vote. The independent and independent position of the national institution is underlined by the fact that the head of the institution is elected by the Stortinget and is given an independent responsibility for its professional activities, by the fact that the institution is to report directly to the Stortinget in the form of an annual notification, and that the allocation to the national institution is to be shown in a separate chapter of the State budget, in line with the other external institutions of the Stortinget. However, the Presidency believes that there are good reasons for an administrative link and co-location with the Civil Ombudsman, such as: to use some common administrative services. The Presidency assumes that the mandate and tasks of the national institution shall be in accordance with the framework for which the Paris principles provide instructions. This will be a prerequisite for the International Coordination Committee for National Institutions (ICC) to be able to recognise the institution as a fully-fledged national institution and to award it A status, which is an internationally recognised quality stamp. This gives important rights in the context of international human rights and will strengthen Norway's reputation and role as a credible player in the field of human rights internationally. According to the Paris principles, it is essential that the institution be given a broad mandate to promote and strengthen human rights in accordance with the national and international legal standards that we have committed ourselves to. In the run-up, the presidency has highlighted several core tasks for national institutions, such as monitoring the human rights situation in our own country and conducting investigations, in particular in societal areas facing human rights challenges. Where necessary, the institution shall be a driver for action. The institution shall provide professional advice on human rights issues to both public authorities and private actors and shall be open to requests from individuals. The Presidency considers that the institution should not deal with complaints, but of course it will be able to refer to relevant bodies, such as existing ombudsmen or the judiciary. It is also stressed that national institutions must have their main responsibilities in national matters and that they must have sufficient weight and competence in their field of competence. The Presidency shall promote in its nomination a proposal that the Storting should empower the Presidency to draw up legislative proposals and instructions for the national institution. In this context, it is important to establish a rapid selection of trade unions. The mandate and tasks of the national institution will be further explored in this context. The Presidency considers that the Storting should be given the opportunity to adopt laws and instructions during the harvest session, so that a new national institution can be established as from 1 January 2015. Finally, I would like to mention that the Presidency believes that it should be legislated that the Stortinge should appoint an advisory board in relation to a national institution. This will include, inter alia: represent non-governmental organisations, the ombudsmen, the Sameting and the academic community. The Committee will have an important role as an advisory body for the activities of the institution and could contribute to the coordination of the efforts of different human rights actors. In particular, the Advisory Forum will reflect the diversity to be dealt with and maintained by the national institution. I recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e470	In Norway, as a picture of us, we are very good at human rights. When the Left promoted a Document 8 proposal on this in the previous period, many journalists told me – when I was trying to advertise it – that there was no sense in having human rights monitoring in Norway, because in Norway we were so good at it. We're not. Norway can get a ruling against it under the European Convention on Human Rights, the EMC, and experience government councils at press conferences in the hiking hall talking about it. In Norway, it can be seen that — for example, in this room a few days ago – a beg ban is adopted. In a number of other European countries under the auspices of the EMK, a judge has been given to say that begging bans are illegal under the EMK. It is not even part of a public debate. We have implemented a number of human rights in the Constitution, but a number did not come, because some human rights were worth more than others. This is a debate that is quite funny in a number of other countries. The picture we have of Norway as the great nation of human rights is wrong. We are a nation with a high level of well-being. We're a nation that has many other opportunities to show that people aren't being bored, but from a human rights point of view, we're not always that good. We have legal scandals associated with our state of law, and we should be very ashamed that these could happen. Many of these legal scandals don't come up either. However, when politicians start to make mechanisms, such as the Resumption Commission and others, it doesn't work. That's why this is very important, and that's why the Left is very, very happy that we're now getting a majority in this room for something that was driven by in the last period. I would particularly like to thank the President. I think that if the president hadn't taken this initiative, we wouldn't have been able to do it. I would also like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs – I have to do that through the Minister of Defence, she is here – for helping this actually come into place. So to the setting itself, where there are two things I want to record that we're quite critical to. We might have wanted a separate institution, not one that is somehow subject to the Civil Ombudsman. I hope the presidency takes it into consideration in the further processing, that this is not our ideal order. We should have wanted our own. You have to include it in the way you want to organise it, that you have the most seaworthiness in the unit itself. The second is what is written in the option on the ability to record individual cases. Human rights violations are not something you can theoretically relate to. These are very often isolated cases, and these are individual cases that often do not come through the usual institutions we have. So for us, it's very important, at least, when it comes to deriving mandates, regulations and frameworks for this work, that the possibility of directing individuals, the possibility of assessing individual matters from an MR perspective – that this is not going to be more limited than it is going to be. Because it's only in the meeting with the individual human being that human rights can be lifted in the way they should. It's kind of a belief that human rights have something to do with a debate of rights that you've had in the past. Human rights are the fundamental rights of every individual in society. It also provides a framework for policy-making – as clearly as possible. I think it's interesting to discuss that we in this room fence about freedom of expression as strongly as we do. We have a constitution that really promises freedom of expression. In Norway, you will be allowed to say exactly what you want, and you will have the opportunity to express any political wish you have about change. So you can stand on Oslo streets, you can get there and find a box and say exactly what you want about the social development around you. But the question of ‘can I get money?’ is that only interested organisations and lobbyists against Stortinget are allowed to say, not an individual who feels that the world around is bad. It is a restriction on freedom of expression that I believe should be part of a debate, for example. about begging here in this hall. It's like that in a bunch of cases, where we forget the perspective of human rights and fundamental human rights in a fight against something. Where I hope such an institution will contribute: contribute to the debate, contribute to putting the various issues in focus, contribute to perhaps setting some framework for how much intervention to individual individuals this room can do. For me as a liberal, it's important. So this is an important step forward. Not only do we get out of the B status as a human rights nation, it's going to raise awareness of MR issues in the Norwegian public debate. That is the important thing, and we see daily in this Chamber that we should have had a bigger debate on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e500	Since we first operate with thanks, I can well think of thanking the President of Storing. I'd like to add both one and the other beyond that, not least the presidency and the work they've done on the matter, which I think has improved this further. The representative, Skei Grande, held a good post. She gave several examples of major human rights challenges in Norway. Others could have been mentioned. Our practice when it comes to custody prisons gets whimsical criticism from the international independent assessments of Norway. Our use of coercion in psychiatry is another field that is completely open to human rights challenges. But then it's also allowed to say that in very important areas of society, Norway has made great progress when it comes to human rights in the last decades. In this case, it may be worth stopping only by perhaps the two most important reasons for it. One important reason is that we in Norway have strong forces that have organized to work out changes and improvements in human rights, for themselves and others. But another reason is that we have a tradition that independent — researchers, institutions in Norway and the international community — see the authorities and their practices in the map. It's just that, that role, that institution will be a strengthening of. Norway has supported the creation of national human rights institutions in a number of other countries. They are important in many other countries. Such an institution would also be important in Norway, if we make it work. So SV is fully behind the presidency setting. Then I have to stop by a little thing that the representative Skei Grande also said. She said, if I understood correctly, she didn't quite like the model that's suggested here now, because the institution is now being placed under the Civilombotsman. But that's not what's in the configuration. That's the exact opposite. The suggestion had embedded it. So I just want to make it clear that it's not quite possible, I feel, from Storting's speaking seat, that we're some of what we're actually doing. Because what's in the setting is that: ‘The new national human rights institution shall be established as an independent institution, subject to the Grand Duchy’. And then it's argued over several sections because it's just an administrative connection to the Civilombotsman. For SV, this is a very decisive part of the setting, so I think it's important that there is full agreement about it from the Stortings page when we now create this institution.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e520	I see that some speakers might add a little bit more to the presidency setting than what you can actually read into it or assume. This is the starting point for the launch of a process that will thus lead to a special law for a new institution, but it is the Stortinget that will have the final word in all legal cases, including this one. It also means following what is good preparation and investigation of legislative proposals. Alternatives should be discussed, the economic and administrative implications should be considered, and in particular, this should be assessed in relation to other institutions in progress in order to obtain the best possible interface, so that good themes do not get lost – let us say – to the public. That's the one trap. The other is, of course, that there may be competition about which institutions have the competence to decide or comment on some issues. Then I would like to remind you that the starting point for our Constitution is that it is this hall that adopts general legal norms. Then we have courts, which take the individual case and weigh what might be opposing considerations, because a good part of the lawyer's everyday life is also to balance and contribute to the harmonised interpretations of competing legal norms. It's very important that the two functions are separated, because otherwise we get a politicization of the court. So we're not going to have a politicization of the individual case. At the same time, I also note that there are many who speak so warmly because what we can say is ombudsmen-like institutions, which are basically – especially when they are given free mandates, where it is unclear on what basis they say – take the right to be social actors without any research justification or mandate from any hinterland. I would say that the parties in many and many things represent better ombudsman institutions if they listen to those they come in contact with. So I'm taking this article to stress that with this we haven't put out games the general division of labour that's between politics and law. What made me take the floor, I felt, was the post from the representative Skei Grande. She had a reference to the revision of the Constitutional Work that is simply not correct. It is not that, because some civil and political rights have been stressed in the context of a revision of the Constitution, they are said to be worth more than other rights. This is the case, which I also think the representative should have acquired in the course of the rather in-depth debate we had, that in Norwegian law the entire UN human rights spectrum has been incorporated: we have incorporated the World Declaration, we have incorporated the civil and political rights and the economic, social and cultural rights. Both last two conventions were adopted on 16 December 1966. We have said through the Human Rights Act that these provisions have direct and immediate effect in Norwegian law and with step height above normal law. This means that the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Convention on the Equality of Men and Women, etc. is entitled to pre-emption if there were to be a Norwegian local rule that would, in some way, be in conflict — if you believe so — with these. So you can ask, what do you need a monitoring board for, as you say, this is going to be? It is true that the current monitoring body has been under the legal faculty of a Centre for Human Rights. It's got B status. Once again, through the President, I must stress that Norway has not been given B status in human rights matters; it is the institution that has not been sufficiently professionally developed and that, with its dependence on the other economy of the university, is not independent enough to give us the A status that should be the point in this context. But that's not what makes Norway a possible B-nation on human rights issues – we're not. I think I've underlined it. So I'm going to end by saying that I'm responding to the further work. I assume that we follow the principles behind all the legislative work in this room, that we are based on the principle that is to be found in the investigation manual, and that for our own legislative activities we do not have any worse preparation than what we demand from the government of the documents.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e539	Thank you for a rich, reflective and wise debate, that has deserved this matter. All honours to the representative Olemic Thommess – and then also to the President of Storing – who put this matter on the map of the day. Finally, the representative, Michael Tetzschner: Yes, we have to follow the usual principle of power distribution that the Storting should adopt laws, and that there are courts to exercise the laws we adopt, including in this case. So it's right, as Bård Vegar Solhjell says, that the institution we now want to set up is an institution that is to have its autonomy, which is to be subject to the Storting, but which is co-located with the Civil Ombudsman in order to use the synergies that such co-location can provide in terms of administrative links – and only that. It is important for the presidency to underline. Then I think that the representative Trine Skei Grande has good points about this with individuals, and that it should also be reflected in the work that is now to be done in the working group that will work beyond the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e550	I'm not going to help prolong the debate, but I just want to point out some things. Yes, there is a lot about how ‘self-contained’ this unit should be within the Civil Ombudsman, but it is still being put together. I had hoped that this would lie alone, but I've lost it, and then we'll see how that institution is going to evolve over time. So to Tetzschner, who thinks that you don't rank human rights because everyone is incorporated, but then my question is, why do you put someone into the Constitution and someone doesn't -- that's really an argument for not adding anyone into the Constitution? By adding someone to the Constitution and not others, I believe we rank. Michael Tetzschner may agree or disagree with that, but it was at least a big debate when we discussed the Constitution here. So it's clear: Norway is not a u-country on human rights, but I think we're much worse than what we do give a picture of, and what the public debate actually gives a picture of. It's not that often — it's not that many times a month — that we get a verdict against ourselves in the EMD, but we do, and we're one of the countries that doesn't care about it very much. During the previous government, we had a government council that, after judges in the EMD, held eloquent press conferences about it in the hiking hall, so that nothing could be done about it legally. And the left had a proposal related to custody, which we stood quite alone about in the last few days. So it's not that EMD judges have a very strong influence on Norwegian policy, so I hope this is an institution that's going to contribute. I'm really happy today. It was very little faith that we would get this done when we promoted the proposal in the previous period. So the fact that we saw early – in the next period – that we were going to be able to do it, I think I'm great, and we have a lot to thank for.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e563	Before the President gives the floor to the representative Michael Tetzschner, the President will carefully note that what is actually being debated is the creation of a national institution for human rights – so that we do not now start a new constitutional debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e566	It is quite timely that the President reminds us of what was the heading of the case. Now, however, it is the case that if there are arguments that are partly about labeling us as a B-nation on human rights issues, and the small figure is made that confuses Norway with a centre of human rights which has obviously not been fully professional at the height, and has also had an organisation that is problematic in relation to the Paris principles, then there must be an opportunity to approach such a production. That's also what makes me take the word again. Because in its reference to what is included in the Constitution, the representative Skei Grande adds a general misunderstanding – that it is the importance of the themes in the Constitution, that is, that everything that is very important should be included in the Constitution. But that's not how it is. The Constitution is a foundation for cooperation between state bodies, so there it is quite exactly as special law. In addition, it contains the State’s relinquishment obligations, i.e.: the space which the State must allow its citizens to enjoy real freedom. This is the task of the Constitution. But otherwise, it is very much in our legislation that is of vital importance, which is found in common law, and which, with a common concept, can rather be characterised as the ‘requirements of the State’s activity’ – the obligation to intervene in relation to which this enlargement wants to do something. It's not that any rules are finer than others, depending on whether they're in the Constitution or not. In fact, I would also like to strike a battle for legal thinking and a quality requirement for the general legislative work that we are going to do here in the Chamber. I also notice that the representative, Skei Grande, refers to other national decisions, for example. something that has been controversial in more countries than ours, namely the prohibition of begging. But it is precisely because it has been up to national legislation – not based on a statement of what international human rights are – that the rules have been created for which order regimes you want in each country. Nor can I just sit and listen to a comment that says that the Stortinget – according to the representative Skei Grande – has adopted general legislation in this Chamber, which is contrary to human rights. The last point concerns the belief that the state of Norway will never be able to make decisions in the EMD against which the government lawyer agrees. In fact, many of the concrete application of the law is based on a balance between equal and good considerations, for example: between freedom of expression and privacy. Those boundaries have tried to draw in an excellent way, at my discretion, the Supreme Court of Norway, and these are issues that are raised every day in the European Court of Human Rights. If these boundaries are sometimes drawn differently, this does not mean that Norway has been wrong or that Norway has violated a human rights clause. This simply means that the legal clearance between national and international judicial clearance bodies has had a somewhat different approach to individual cases. Therefore, with this article, I would also like to try to get the representative Skei Grande out of the notion that the fact that the EMD sometimes comes to conclusions other than the government attorney is the same as that Norway does not comply with human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e585	The representative, Trine Skei Grande, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e588	I don't need to use Tetzschner's arrogance, but I can try with some facts. The reason we got B status was not the Norwegian Centre for Human Rights, but because of its independence. It fundamentally breaks with these things. I still don't think Tetzschner's line of argument as to why some human rights are to be incorporated into the Constitution and others are not related. His argument should really end with not including any human rights in the Constitution. The attitude towards political processes versus the legal rights to protect the individual from the abuses of the majority, I think, is about a fundamentally different view of democracy. I believe that the point of democracy is that the majority does not always have the power, but that the minority has something to say, and that you cannot be fooled by majority decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e600	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e614	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. The President will also propose that those who are on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e625	The size currently deals with a proposition where the government asks the Stortinget to be allowed to implement step 3 in the development of the Joint Strike Missile, JSM. Step 3 will prepare the missile for production and integrate it on Norway’s new fighter aircraft, F-35. Producer of JSM is Kongsberg Defence & Aerospace, KDA. The development of the missile has KDA done in cooperation with the Defence, Defence Agency, FFI, and of course also the manufacturer of F-35, Lockheed Martin. JSM will, on successful development, become the superior best missile in its class in the future. JSM is a long-range anti-surface weapon. JSM is a further development of Norwegian sea target missile, NSM, which is the world's most advanced class. NSM has a range of 200 km and the battlehead weighs 125 kg. The JSM range is 280 km. The battlehead weighs 120 kg. The KDA has managed to export NSM, and the price of a missile is between 15 million. NOK 20 million. kr. Of course, it is Norway’s ambition that KDA also achieves exports of JSM. JSM is a stop to evolution after 50 years of missile development on Kongsberg. JSM is full of computing power and electronics. The missile processes optical data and makes its own choices in line with the mission's purpose. The missile is probably more intelligent than most in this room. It has been an ambition to turn the further development and integration of JSM into multinational cooperation. The size has previously decided that international cooperation must be a prerequisite for the further development of the missile. The intention was to share the costs of further development, so that the cooperating countries could possibly acquire JSM for their own fighter aircraft at a lower price or be introduced to the project in a wider context. KDA failed to do this. Australia, Canada and, in part, Italy were potential partners. But they've made it known that they don't want to go on. This implies that the costs of step 3 must be borne by Norway alone. The fact that these countries do not want to split up further development does not mean that they are not potential buyers of the missile. The consequence is in any case that the development, qualification, integration and acquisition of JSM will be 2.2 billion. kr more expensive than previously estimated. The cost of the JSM project is increasing from 6 billion. kr to 8.2 br. kr. As a risk reduction measure, the defence has concluded an agreement with the KDA that binds the company to missile prices for Norway, in line with the 2012 agreement. In this proposition, the Government asks that the increased costs incurred in 2014 be covered by an additional allocation of 200 million. kr. At the same time, I would like to stress that the Progress Party expects that all the SEK 2.2 billion announced will extend the framework of the F-35 project. Kongsberg's deliveries to F-35 are a Norwegian industrial venture. It will give the company work for decades to come. KDA’s development of missiles and components to F-35 ensures a number of Norwegian companies contracts as subcontractors to KDA. It is estimated that the KDA will involve 60 Norwegian enterprises linked to step 3 of the JSM project. The hulls of NSM and JSM consist exclusively of composites. This ensures the development of advanced fibre technologies at Kongsberg. Today, Kongsberg Aerostructures has 18 apprentices – I repeat: apprentices – as well as others who work on this. Today, Norway has not received composite education, which is why these apprentices have gained their skills in other countries, particularly in the United States. It should consider establishing Norway in the future. The question is, what are we going to live on in the future? There is one question that more than the Progress Party should ask. Industry and technology development are crucial. Large, advanced international development projects bring technology to the fore, and it is only by participating in such projects that Norway can maintain technological competence. Export-oriented Norwegian companies should note that the parties Left, Christian People's Party and SV choose to stand outside the majority opinion. Such an attitude would have to have consequences, not least for the many district farms that depend on JSM cooperation with Kongsberg. Today we inject money into, among other things. Innovation Norway. The hope is that IN will find areas that can contribute to development and create jobs. The trend in such investments is that they become relatively simple and that they are a modest basis for advanced export technologies. If Norway is to live on something other than gas, fish and the return on shares, there are precisely projects for which F-35 and JSM Stortinget should support. Norway does not have the opportunity to subsidise technology companies because the Competition Directive suggests that this is not the case. The defence industry is excluded. The defence industry is exempt because it is considered to have a defence industry which is very important for the defence of its own country. We have to take this further. We must be no more Catholic than the pope. We need to understand the importance of building technology companies that provide opportunities for us to get advanced technology elsewhere. The oil industry is a good example, where we actually invested, and it has created hundreds — thousands — of very important jobs for Norway. We must not believe that we can produce advanced cheesehills or special editions of goat's cheese and live on it in the future. We have to bet on technology development, and then an enterprise like Kongsberg is absolutely crucial, not just for the Kongsberg area and Buskerud and the areas around, but for the whole country. I remind you that in the United States, F-35 is produced in absolutely every country, to support the project and create technology development and jobs in every country. This we should think about and not believe that saving some hundred million here is a reasonable saving, and instead use them on Nav. We should create jobs and create less need for Nav. Finally, I refer you to the committee's recommendation as it appears in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e672	Today, the size will again deal with a matter related to one of the most advanced military development programmes in Norway. With the proposed approval to implement step 3 of the development cycle of the Joint Strike Missile, JSM, Stortinget is primarily following up a very important operational capacity for the Norwegian defence. Together with the NSM, which is already in place on our coast corvettes, it provides both maritime defence and air defence with a modern and relevant capacity. Secondly, the government is continuing with the development of a weapon system that – if the Kongsberg Group succeeds – will have a major impact on the realisation of the ambitious industrial plan for the Norwegian defence industry linked to the purchase of the new fighter aircraft. The development of JSM Step 3 consists, as demonstrated by the proposition, of the remaining part of the development as well as of parts of the qualification and preparatory integration of JSM on the fighter aircraft F-35. This means that after completion of JSM Step 3, the missile will be ready for production and integration on the new fighter aeroplane. Successful integration and development of JSM is a very important part of the process of acquiring new fifth-generation fighter aircraft for the Defence. The aim of the development of JSM is to equip Norwegian fighter aircraft with a weapon providing F-35 with the ability to take out well-defenced long-range maritime and land objectives, in addition to maintaining a specific competence in the defence industry, as the case-rapporteur was also concerned. This is an important capacity because it will contribute to the strengthening of the Norwegian war-prevention threshold. Any opponent must therefore take into account that the use of military power against Norway can be very costly and risky. Through the development of JSM, Norway also contributes to the development of capabilities and technologies that strengthen both national and allied defence capabilities. This is how we demonstrate both the will and the ability to emphasise multi-national cooperation in defence policy and that we invest in our own and alliance security. It is in many ways a Norwegian contribution, within the framework of NATO, to contribute to the development of ‘Smart Defence’ and focus on our neighbourhoods in NATO. For the Workers' Party, it has been important that large acquisitions into the Defence Sector contribute to increased value creation in Norway through good industrial agreements and cooperation between the Defence and Defence Industries. Success with JSM will be important, and probably the most crucial single component of the industrial effort associated with the acquisition of fighter aircraft. The missile is also expected to have a significant sales potential for other countries acquiring aircraft similar to ours. Of course, successful development will mean a lot for Kongsberg, but Norwegian defence industry succeeds with later sales and production of JSM, this will have significant ring-fences for small and medium-sized defence companies across the country. But at the same time, I want to express concern. So far, the contracted amount for the Norwegian defence industry has been around 2.2 billion. NOK, and we haven't seen any significant increases in recent times. In a short time, Norway shall decide in the next budget on the possible booking of another six aeroplanes in the main acquisition. I would like to take this opportunity from the House to stress that the progress made in complying with the industrial plan is very worrying. I expect the Secretary of Defense and the Ministry of Defence to be very clear to the manufacturer Lockheed Martin and to the US authorities about the impatience of the Stortinget. We entered into this project with clear expectations and assurances that the Norwegian defence industry would be able to compete for tasks related to the production of F-35. I think that we are many on Stortinget who are soon expecting to see concrete results, in concrete contracts. I therefore look forward to the government returning to the Stortinge in connection with the budget in the autumn, and I also look forward to a necessary and thorough debate on how the further implementation of the industrial plans for the acquisition of fighter aircraft is being followed up. It's important to succeed with both JSM and APEX. It will benefit other Norwegian companies that contribute to the production of the aircraft itself, including the exciting thing that is happening on Kongsberg in connection with the large investment made in composite production. In addition, it can provide important industrial opportunities for support and maintenance, and I am thinking in particular of AIM Norway and engine maintenance. We expect the government to ensure that this is anchored in Stortinget. As indicated in the submission, Norway has not succeeded in bringing several countries into the project and contributing to the cost of development and integration. That's not what the Storting meant. I note that it is now assumed that Norway alone has to bear the total costs of integration. This leads to a total development, qualification, integration and acquisition of JSM of 2.2 billion. kr more expensive than previously estimated, together with an increase in the cost of the JSM project from 6 billion. kr to 8.2 br. kr. It assumes that the government will return to Stortinget with a detailed explanation of the collection of these costs. Furthermore, the majority of the Committee, all except the member of the Socialist Left Party, notes that the amount of the increase in costs incurred in 2014 is proposed to be covered by an additional allocation of 200 million. kr and join this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e704	Events in recent years in Libya and now in Eastern Europe have once again underlined the importance of a better burden-sharing within NATO. Norway wants to take part in the security responsibilities of the alliance through further development and strengthening of its defence. JSM is one of the most advanced military development programmes we have ever had in Norway. It's been going on since 2004. So the goal is to equip the Norwegian fighter planes, F-35, with a weapon that allows them to take well-defenced sea and land goals over long distances. I join those who have said in the past that such a capacity will contribute to the strengthening of the Norwegian war-prevention threshold, and that any opponent must therefore take into account that using military power against Norway can be both very costly and risky. It's reassuring. New fighter aircraft with JSM will be important to strengthen the national war-prevention threshold and at the same time the northern region of NATO. Through the development of JSM, Norway also contributes to the development of capabilities and technologies that strengthen both national and allied defence capabilities. This shows our ability and willingness to invest in our own and alliance security. JSM is a long-range and precision-driven anti-surface missile developed through a partnership between Kongsberg Defence & Aerospace and the Defence. In many ways the missile acts as a small self-guided aircraft, which can solve a specific mission and give the Defense an ability to take out, as I said, well-defenced targets at a long distance. The main objectives will be modern marine vessels with advanced self-defence systems, but JSM can also be used against landmines. In order to carry out these tasks, JSM must be able to achieve the right objective, avoid the defence systems of the target and take exactly where it is intended. This results in JSM through a unique combination of technical solutions. Several of these have been developed from scratch in Norway. The missile is also the first of its kind specifically designed to fit the inside of the weapons room on F-35. This allows F-35 to carry up to two JSMs inside — one missile in each weapons room. The fighting light thus retains its low radar signature and remains difficult to detect for the opponent. No other known missiles, either in production or in development, have this combination of technical solutions, and JSM will therefore collectively offer a unique operational capability for both Norway and other users of F-35. Therefore, this is also an exciting Norwegian industrial development project. I remember in this context that supplies of 3,500 F-35 aircraft have been ordered so far worldwide. Here in Norway, a one-voiced magnification has announced its agreement that it will be ordered up to 52 aircraft. The objective of industrial cooperation in the field of fighter aircraft acquisition has been to ensure value creation for Norwegian industry, corresponding to the value of the aircraft itself or a little over half of the total cost of the fighter aircraft programme. This is planned to be achieved throughout the lifetime of F-35, i.e. approx. 40 years ahead in time. We get hope and see if we don't introduce this. Much of this comes through the delivery of parts and technology for the production of F-35, but even more will come as the delivery of weapons and in the form of support for the planes throughout their lifetime. JSM is important for industrial cooperation and therefore the possibility of selling missiles to others is significant. By comparison, Kongsberg has sold over 1,000 Penguin-type marine missiles to a number of different countries for use on both ships, helicopters and aircraft since it was introduced in the early 1970s. Development of defence technology is expensive and JSM is no exception. Not only is technology very complex – it is quite unique, so much needs to be designed from scratch. The development of JSM has until now been implemented within the cost framework set by Stortinget. An independent evaluation of the technical design of JSM conducted in winter 20l3 to 20l4 has confirmed that JSM has the technological maturity as foreseen at that stage. I am pleased with the large majority in this matter – a matter that we in the Right believe is a very important measure for our operational capability, for the Norwegian defence industry, for the burden-sharing in NATO and not least for the alliance as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e730	Norway has agreed to buy new fighter aircraft, US F-35. In order to make the most of the capacity of the aeroplane, it must be equipped with a wide range of weapons adapted to air objectives, targets and sea targets. To meet the operational requirements and to build on the investment in Norwegian missile competence, a development work has been carried out on the Norwegian side to obtain Joint Strike Missile. The total cost of developing and purchasing JSM was estimated to be 6 billion in 2012. kr. The development of stages I and 2 has been carried out within the framework and the plans of the Stortinget have previously been briefed on and taken into account in its decisions. On the other hand, the cost of step 3 in development has been 1,05 billion. kr higher than expected in 2012. In the 2012 cost estimates, it was considered that the integration costs for JSM would be shared equally with two other party nations. Following the implementation of stage 3 JSM, the missile will be ready for production and integration into Norway’s new fighter aircraft F-35. One must now assume that Norway alone must bear the total costs of integration. The overall consequence is that the development, qualification, integration and acquisition of JSM total will be 2.2 billion. kr higher than previously calculated. Compare with the cost picture presented in Prop. 1 S for 2013–2014 results in an increase in the cost of JSM in isolation in expenditure that was not taken into account in the overall fighter aircraft programme. Based on this factual picture, we can hardly imagine a further increase in the cost picture without having consequences for the implementation of this development project. This process reminds me a little bit of the Archer artillery system. After spending 550 million. kr on the development of a new artillery label together with the Swedish, it was terminated. It was announced in a press release on 6 December 2013. The total value of the contract was 2 billion. kr. Now there's something that suggests that Norway can be sitting around with the entire bill. I Prop. 84 S, Investments in Defense, we experienced a cost increase of 57 million. kr in new border stations in South Varanger. This is mainly due to the relationship with technical infrastructure and the increase in prices has been greater than initially expected. These recent examples show how difficult it is to design and develop heavy, complicated weapon systems. Also, when it comes to the development of JSM Step 3, there are changed assumptions. Steps 1 and 2 were, as I said, carried out within the framework and regulations of Stortinget. It is worrying that Norway must take development costs on its own. There is little doubt that Joint Strike Missile from Kongsberg can contribute to the industrial success of F-35 procurement, but then the weapons must be bought and placed on more planes than just the Norwegian fighter planes. The goal of getting more F-35 countries to cover this cost is, despite the strong efforts of Norwegian government and Kongsberg Defence & Aerospace, to the extent that it does not succeed. This means that the development, qualification, integration and acquisition of JSM total will be 2.2 billion. kr higher than what we've believed in the past. The central party expects close financial management for the rest of the project period and has suggested that the government return to Stortinget on how the remaining part of it increases the cost of 2.2 billion. kr for development, qualification, integration and acquisition shall be covered. For the Central Party, it is a premise that our national defence capabilities will not be reduced as a result of the additional costs of implementing the development concept of Joint Strike Missile.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e756	There have been considerable efforts to develop JSM into our future F-35, and hopefully several of them. An important part of developing this has been the aim of establishing multi-national cooperation on the integration of JSM after stage 2. It has not succeeded so far. As more people will be aware, it's in the Inner East. 441 S, for 2010–2011, to Prop. 110 S, for 2010–2011, that if multi-national cooperation were not achieved, there would be no basis for progressing at later stages of development. Later, Mr. Stortinget will deal with the defence's long-term plan, Prop. 73 S, for 2011-2012, A defense for our time, where there was a framework for the pooling of money, with an additional promise outside that we should have in connection with the plan. The extra amount was especially the reason for the large amount of fighter aircraft investment we're facing. I – and the Socialist Left Party – have come to the conclusion, under any doubt, that even if we said that we would not move forward without achieving multi-national cooperation, there is a project in which great resources have been put in, in which we should have great faith, and that is why it is right to move on. But it is important that we hold to the clear commitment to a comprehensive economic framework, to which an aggregate increase has joined in the treatment of the long-term plan. It is very important – no matter what sector it applies to society – that one does not control the way that a first set of a clear framework, one can count on, from experience, that there may always be some money in addition, if one does not get it anyway. That's why we want one to take the extra resources that are being invested in the development of JSM, from the existing defense frame and the one that one has been through, at the top of it. We are making an own proposal on this in the Chamber, which I am referring to here. We're going to vote against the recommendation for decisions in the plural setting right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e769	The representative Burd Vegar Solhjell has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e772	The proposition we are dealing with today is very important – both for the security of the nation, for NATO, for the defence and for the Norwegian industry. The government has stressed the importance of presenting to the Storting a detailed proposition, precisely because there are many aspects to this acquisition that are important to know. Firstly, the development of JSM is a very advanced technological development. The production of JSM will involve a large number of enterprises, in addition to Kongsberg Defence & Aerospace, KDA. The most important thing, however, is what JSM will provide of operational capability for the entire defence, namely a long-range anti-surface weapon, with maritime and land-based capabilities, especially against well-defenced marine vessels. JSM is the only weapon planned to be integrated into F-35, which fully meets these requirements. The combination of F-35 and JSM will constitute a significant strengthening of the war-prevention threshold. It is against this background that the government recommends that JSM development stage 3 be implemented, even without a partner at this stage. It is important to stress that this will give the entire Defence Force an increased operational capability. Just as we don't buy new fighter planes just to the Air Force, the missiles are also a strengthening of our entire operational capability. A significant part of the development of JSM has been implemented and the basic design has been completed. The missile is technically sufficiently mature according to the requirements of the start-up of the integration of F-35. The development of JSM is therefore considered to be on track, with a view to achieving full operational capability for Norwegian F-35 in 2025. JSM is, as many have been involved, a further development of Naval Strike Missile, NSM, which was developed over the 1990s in cooperation between the Defence and the KDA. Further development of the NSM to JSM, for use on new fighter aircraft, increases Norway’s ability to exert long-range influence and provides the Defence Force with the ability to combat over-distance landings. The government today asks for the Storting’s approval to implement step 3 of the JSM development cycle. The development of JSM then takes place in three stages, of which steps 1 and 2 have been implemented. This proposition deals with step 3 and the elements of the qualification and integration to be contracted with KDA. This applies to the production of test missiles and related KDA engineering support. The defence is primarily responsible for facilitating the qualification and integration of the missile. The qualification shall certify that the weapon can be delivered from a fighter aeroplane, in accordance with the given requirements. This is an area where US testing and development environments have particular expertise, and this service will therefore be acquired through US authorities. The integration of the missile is the work on the aircraft itself, and in particular the aircraft's software. The integration itself will be part of the first upgrade of F-35 after the development phase has been completed. This first upgrade of the aeroplane is known as Block 4, and this upgrade shall, on schedule, be fully operational for 2022 to 2024. The acquisition of the missile by the defence is carried out as part of the fighter aircraft programme once the development has been completed and the missile is integrated into the F-35. The Stoltenberg II government considered it a realistic goal to establish multi-national cooperation for the integration of JSM after JSM development stage 2. Norway has received sufficient support from the multinational partnership to ensure that JSM will be integrated already into the Block 4 upgrade of the aeroplane. In addition, there is a strong interest in JSM from the partner countries Australia, Canada and, in part, Italy and the United States. Japan has also shown great interest in JSM. I am pleased that today I can present completely new information to the Stortinget that a partnership related to the integration of JSM on F-35 is now planned. Australia has signaled that they want cooperation related to the integration and testing of JSM on F-35. Furthermore, they wish to look at the possibility of contributing to the development of missile competence and industrial involvement. Through a dialogue over the next six to twelve months, we will have clarified the content of a formal agreement. In the implementation of JSM development stage 3, Norwegian industry participation will be significantly extended. The KDA has estimated that they will involve 60 Norwegian companies as subcontractors in the project. This includes multi-area component suppliers, including mechanics, electronics, wiring, explosives and telemetry. In addition, several enterprises are involved in other technical deliveries. The KDA itself has estimated that JSM will have a significant industrial impact and has estimated the potential for national value creation up to 20-25 billion. kr. JSM development stages 1 and 2 have been implemented within the framework and assumptions previously informed by the Stortingen and taken into account for its decisions. Steps 1 and 2 have given both the KDA and the Defence a more complete picture of the remaining challenges related to the development and integration of the missile. As a result, several areas have been identified within the last part of the development where more work is needed than previously foreseen. As a result, together with several technical changes, the cost of the last part of the development will be higher than that previously foreseen. Overall, the cost of the third and final phase of development is 1.05 billion. kr higher than the calculation made in 2012. In the 2012 cost calculation, it was considered that the integration costs for JSM were to be shared equally with two other partner nations. For the time being, it has to be considered that Norway has to bear the total integration costs alone. This therefore implies increased costs for Norway, although the price of integration itself has not increased. Compared to the cost calculations made in 2012, the integration cost will be 1.15 billion. kr higher than the calculations made in 2012. Overall, the overall result is that the development, qualification, integration and acquisition of JSM totals 2.2 billion. kr to the right of the previous estimate. In total, this increases the expected cost of the fighter aircraft programme from 64 billion to 66.2 billion. kr. There has been a long debate with the KDA, it started last August. From the Ministry of Defence's side, we have been concerned about getting the best possible solution, and it is also reflected in the setting which is the main elements of the agreement that has now been negotiated. Nevertheless, I would like to stress that, on the part of the Ministry, we are now also launching an external assistance review to identify what is causing the programme to become more expensive. In the proposal, the government proposes to cover the additional cost of 200 million. kr in 2014 as an additional appropriation for the defence budget, i.e. outside the current defence framework. The government, as in steps 1 and 2, will return to the Storting in the usual way, through the ordinary budgetary processes, recommending the recovery of the remaining part of the increase in costs. I am pleased that the Committee joins in the implementation of the JSM stage 3. It is absolutely central to ensuring that Norway will be able to achieve full operational capability on the new fighter aircraft in 2025. The combination of F-35 and JSM will significantly strengthen our operational capability and not least strengthen the war-preventing threshold. It will also further consolidate the role of KDA as a missile supplier and as a technological spearhead. In conclusion, I would like to make a few comments on what many have been concerned about, namely industrial return and industrial agreements linked to the programme. The lifetime industrial return objective up to 2054 is at the base of 40 billion. kr, which is the purchase price of the aeroplanes themselves. There are in particular three things that will contribute: JSM is in a separate class with regard to the possibility of industrial returns, but we also have APEX ammunition and composites as important, large areas. Agreements have now been concluded for approx. 2.2 B.C.E. kr. It's not too high a number, and we also have clear expectations and clearly express to Lockheed Martin and the US authorities what expectations we have. That's what I do when I travel to the United States, or have a meeting here with the fighter aircraft program in the United States, our fighter aircraft director, does the department, and so does the Stortinget in their meetings with Lockheed Martin. And then we're going to continue with our impatience. We're going to keep pressing, and we're very clear that this is as clearly expressed from the Storing as it can be. At the same time, we should also remember that right now the production of aeroplanes is relatively low – entirely according to the plan. When that production increases — including that under the plan — it is also more likely that the volume on the Norwegian side will increase as long as we are able to keep the Norwegian defence industry competitive so that they can deliver on the best value principle, which is the basis of acquisitions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e814	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e818	I listened with interest to the last time the Secretary of Defense said, because it is important that Norway is very active towards both Lockheed Martin and the US authorities in getting proper industrial agreements. As underlined by the Council of State, Joint Strike Missile is in a special position and class in terms of both innovation, jobs and industrial development – not just in Kongsberg, but with a number of subcontractors. However, I would ask the Council of State to be quite clear that industrial agreements are also involved in addition to joint strike missiles, composite production and other things that are now underway. I would also like to ask the State Council if she is willing to go on to get JSM on several flights, at several partner countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e825	To the first question, it is clear that we have a wide range of approaches to industrial return in this fighter aircraft program. When JSM is mentioned, and so on, APEX and composite, like the big one, it's because that's what has the potential to give the most industrial return, but that's not the only thing. There are many companies involved, both as main contractors and not least as subcontractors. Only the development of Step 3 will provide the potential for around 60 new companies that can only be involved in this project with Kongsberg. Then it's also important, as the representative Nybakk is involved, that we also work for more countries to buy the missile and have it on the planes. This is important for several reasons. One is that it is important for the operational capability of NATO that our partners have the same missile, but it is also important industrially for Kongsberg – and I would also say for the state, because there is a royalty agreement if the missile is sold to other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e832	Now, I'm sure the Council of State was a little surprised. I'm going to ask an industrial question, about something that I also raised in the pulpit, about the production of composites, which the Council of State also mentioned – and many may not understand how advanced actually is – and the many jobs and technologies developed at Kongsberg. I have received several enquiries from actors both within the project and outside to receive composite training in Norway. If we are to succeed in the future, it is natural that we are also able to train those who are going to work for us. Is there anything that the government, the Ministry of Defence, the Defence or Kongsberg consider talking about, and might consider starting?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e837	I was unknown about the problem that there is no education in the composite. But as the representative Tybring-Gjedde quite rightly mentions, it is a very large environment for the development of composite – a technologically demanding material, too, and it is built a large composite factory just to take into account that one should be able to do this industrially. What education is created is for the Minister of Knowledge to assess, but it is of course an interesting thing to discuss with the Minister of Knowledge. Like generally wanting to invest more in technological education in Norway, this is something that can go into that discussion, so I want to take that with me to the Minister of Knowledge. I also expect the representative Tybring-Gjedde to deal directly with the Minister of Knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e842	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e845	The background to the JSM project is that engineers working with the NSM target missile in 2004 created a study in which it was concluded that there were good opportunities for a new missile based on the NSM to fit into the bombing space of the Joint Strike Fighter. Since the beginning of the JSM project, there has been a team work where the Defence Department, the Ministry of Defence and the FFI have played each other well. Kongsberg could not do this alone, but it is natural that developments take place primarily on Kongsberg. At the same time, an external independent study has shown that NSM and JSM are successful missiles far beyond what is on the market today and in the coming years, as the Foreign and Defence Committee was highlighted when we visited Washington DC. Later analyses from other partner countries confirm this. However, industrial and national interests mean that even leading products need strong support to succeed, and in this way the defence industry is special. I am pleased with the news presented by the Council of State in its contribution, on partnership with Australia, and on the commitment to launching new partnership projects. In the past, the size has, among other things: Int. 388 S for 2011-2012 related to Prop. 73 S for 2011–2012, underlined the importance of JSM — operational, industrial and for research purposes. It is important to reiterate the importance of JSM for industry. As part of the national industrial effort, JSM is important in order to achieve the Storting's industrial cooperation objectives and ensure national value creation over time. The development of the NSM, the maritime target missile, has been a success, and it is now in production in Poland and Norway. The airborne JSM of F-35, Joint Strike Fighter, will have a major impact on future activities and jobs in Kongsberg. When Kongsberg’s weapons factory had problems and had to be restructured, there were 4,500 employees there. Now more than 8 000 people work in the industry – high-tech industry – in Kongsberg. There is one of the strongest industrial clusters — if not the strongest — in Norway. If the missile becomes the standard on the planes, there can be many new jobs. At the same time, it is important to stress the operational importance of JSM for Defence. JSM enables the Air Force to perform critical national tasks where no other solutions are currently available. We are now developing a missile-adapted fighter aircraft for the future. It will mean a powerful low-risk capacity that fully exploits the advantages of F-35. It is great to see the development that has taken place at Kongsberg after the restructuring of Kongsberg Arms Factory. There has been a formidable growth in employment, and the development of weapon technology has been a driver of other technological developments, for the oil industry and for other important sectors in Norway. That is why it is important that we support this project.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e858	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e872	The applicant's rapporteur shall not make a long statement. I would just like to point out that this concerns changes in the State budget for 2014 under the Ministry of Defence, Changes in the ‘Regulation for additions to outsourced compulsory ratings’, which concludes with a regulation based on the salary settlement between the State and the main organisations. It considers it reasonable to join. This is an increase of 2.3 pst. The reason why I asked for the word is, in fact, to refer to a small remark in the wording, that ‘it is important that the device of the initial service needs to be developed in order to be as adapted as possible’. Defence needs, but also the needs of society – and not least ‘the needs of the individual guardian’. This is not the subject here, but it could be worth a debate of its own. We'll see if we can get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e881	To confirm the statements made by the rapporteur: I fully agree with this. We are now running two processes in the Ministry of Defence. One is to make practical arrangements for us to introduce – with the approval of the Grand Duchy's next harvest – a general duty of protection. We have to do a lot of grips to make it possible. The second is that for the autumn we will set down a separate sample that will work on precisely the questions the representative named Nybakk mentions, namely how we can ensure that the content of the initial service is modernised and developed in line with the needs of the Defence. It's a work I'm looking forward to. I think it is important that we do so – also because there is a broad consensus in this room that the duty of protection should be maintained. In order to maintain the obligation of protection, it is important to develop the initial service in a good way. This work is under way – and will continue until the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e890	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e904	According to the Constitution § 75f, the Stortinget is “to submit to the minutes of the Council of State and all public reports and papers;” After Stortinget's Rules of Procedure § 14 nr. 9 the Control and Constitutional Committee shall "examine and make an adjustment to the size of: (a) Protocols of the Council of State, etc., as set out in: Basic law § 75(f). Fredrik Sejersted writes in his legal dissertation ‘Control and Constitution’ that when the control regime of the Storting was established in 1814, control of the State Council protocols was the cornerstone itself. The scheme was incorporated into the Basic Law § 75, according to the Swedish model. During the relatively strict distribution of power, it was in principle important that the Storting thus had a constitutional requirement of transparency in the central body of the executive. In addition to the 1800s, protocol control also played a real political role, both as an information resource and as a starting point for dealing with individual issues. Until well into the middle-war period, the annual adjustments to the State Council Protocols were often very extensive, and the debates were used to settle with the government in some individual cases. Later it has gradually gone downwards. Formally, the system is preserved, but in reality, this control has almost completely played its part. The attitudes are brief, and there is usually no debate. This may be due, inter alia, to: that the Government is now controlled by the Storting by other means, so that there is no longer any need for the annual settlement of the previous protocol debates. The Committee has no comment on the minutes of the Council of State for the second half of 2013, either in respect of admissibility cases, appointments of office or laid down, amended or repealed rules. In its opinion, the Committee states that it ‘will further discuss how the regulatory review can best be managed within the available investigation capacity and competences’. Previous committees have also regularly discussed the possibility of making more use of the ordinary protocol control. There has been a desire to use the protocols as a starting point for the ongoing control of government regulations to see if they have been maintained within the limits of the powers and assumptions of the Storting. The problem — and this is important — has been to achieve something more than mere formal control. In a modern regulatory country, the size depends on being able to delegate legislative powers to the administration, but no ongoing consultation procedures have been established. However, the size may follow-up control of the government’s regulations. The Frøiland Committee assessed whether more real and systematic procedures should be put in place for the parliamentary control of regulations, but did not propose concrete proposals on how to carry out regulatory control. It was assumed that the control committee itself was closest to evaluating this. That is why my message today is also directed at the presidency. The challenge is that one should come back to this at a later stage in what is called an appropriate form. It will be absolutely necessary for us in Stortinget to discuss our ability to carry out proper and precise regulatory control, as required by law.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e932	First, I would like to agree with the committee chairman's comments on this matter. At the same time, I would like to add a few comments to the regulatory review. As we all know, regulations are important. In a number of specific areas, it is the regulations that demonstrate the practical application of legislation. My responsibility concerns regulations under the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment, and I have some comments on this. While all the regulations of the Ministry of the Environment contained in the present document are governed by the Nature Diversity Act, four regulations are laid down in the Marka Act § 11. These are the regulations for the protection of Schännungsåsen, Godbecken, Hauktjern and Spinneren open-air areas in the municipality of Oslo. I would just like to stress that Section 37 of the Natural Diversity Act, on nature reserves, is considered to be the basis for the protection of areas with special qualities due to natural experience values, but it has a different protection purpose than the Marka Act § 11, precisely because the Marka Act § 11 is not intended to provide professional, biological qualities. The requirements of the four above-mentioned open-air areas are therefore properly provided for in Section 11 of the Marka Act. Privately owned areas of regional or national protection value are open to protection by means of a voluntary protection process, under the Nature Diversity Act § 37. But this is to be done according to professional biological qualities, and not because of natural experience values. That's where we're at a very fundamental distinction. Paragraph 11 of the Marka Act does not, therefore, apply to professional biological qualities, but to natural experience values of special quality. In order to protect under Section 37 of the Nature Diversity Act, it is the professional, biological qualities that must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e943	I would like to support the rapporteur's comments. We have a somewhat complicated administration, and the regulatory diversity – or what I'm going to call it – is incredibly big, and different governments use it differently. Today's government is signaling a lot of activity on the prescription page. They have every right to do so, but the Storting and the Control and Constitutional Committee are responsible for ensuring that this is in line with the law we have, and what the Storting has adopted. It's a very, very comprehensive process. The representative Lundtägen was up and explained one example where one has to weigh, look and then find out what law it is actually based in, and see if it should have been based in another law, etc. It's very complicated, and I don't think I'm taking my mouth too full by saying that this is practically not feasible with the resources we have available today. That's why I'm also very happy that the committee's chairman says that you're going to bring this back to the presidency in an appropriate form. We are obliged to say that we have checked all these regulations, but in practice – I think I should be so honest to say – it is simply not possible to do so. I think most of us feel a pretty big discomfort by saying that we've done it, when it's actually not possible to do it in practice. I think we had to extend the session quite significantly and staff the secretariat with quite a number of posts if we were to go through it that way. I would urge the presidency – when it gets this enquiry – to take this seriously, and that we go through it, so that the Storting is actually able to control and take responsibility for the checks we carry out, that we are doing it in a way that is in line with the obligations we have to be imposed at all times, and that we have the resources to do it properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e954	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e968	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that the debate be organised as follows: The case rapporteur shall be given up to 15 minutes, then each group of parties and the Council of State shall be given up to 15 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no opportunity for a change of line. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e979	The case concerns the price control in the concession law. The background is a letter from the Council of State Listhaug of 4 December 2013 to municipalities, county councillors and State Agriculture Administration, where I will quote the last sentence: ‘The Ministry therefore recommends that the price agreed by the parties is not given decisive importance in the assessment of whether a concession should be granted.’ On this basis, there has been an exchange of letters later between the Control Committee, the Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture Listhaug. The last meeting of the Committee asked whether it was in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to consider the matter in the Control Committee when the matter was recently discussed in the Business Committee, Document 8:29 S of this year. Questions were asked whether the proposal for a decision should be rejected as a result of a provision of Section 38 of the Rules of Procedure. The Constitutional Department here in Stortingen has decided that the proposals are different enough for this to be no problem. So the foundation is present for treatment in Stortinget today. What's shown in the setting is that we as parties don't agree on anything. The progress party and the Right have their own comments from the first sentence, and I expect that the sails will justify their vision. All parties, other than the Party of Advancement and the Right, point out that the law on the concession for the acquisition of immovable property, the law on the concession of 28 November 2003, is the end of a development introduced by the Civil Code of 1888. The concession rules have been policy tools in the governance of society throughout this period. In Section 9, first paragraph, No. 1 in today's concession law, on specific conditions for agricultural properties, states that: ‘In deciding on the application for a concession for the acquisition of property to be used for agricultural purposes, particular attention shall be paid to: 1. whether the agreed price corresponds to socially sound price developments’. The majority point to the fact that according to the comments of Gyldendal Rättdata on the concession law, note 76, last revised on 12 June 2012, states that: ‘The moments referred to in the first subparagraph may be weighted more than those referred to in the second and third subparagraphs’. In addition, note 77 states: ‘The conformity of the agreed price with socially sound price developments shall be assessed. Otherwise, the concession application may be rejected. With socially sound price developments, it is necessary, inter alia, to: is understood as a price which contributes to the achievement of the objectives of agricultural policy. This does not apply if the property is acquired for non-agricultural purposes and it is not foreseeable that the property will be maintained as agricultural property in the future. Where it is objectively foreseeable that agricultural holdings are eligible for production subsidies, price controls shall be carried out’. And on the other hand, ‘The starting point for the price evaluation is the yield value of the productive land and the re-encapsulation value of the buildings. These include: indicated a minimum value for agricultural land in different areas of the country and a framework for adding housing value; in circular M-1/2010, the upper framework for adding housing value is now set at NOK 1500000. Additional soils may be provided with a supplement of up to 50 pst. A capitalisation rate of 4 pst has been established. Circular M-2/2012 provides that if the price of a built-up property is less than NOK 2,50000, price evaluation shall be omitted.’;» And finally, about the regulation: ‘I ‘Procedure for the examination of proceedings, etc. in the municipality in cases under the Concessions Act, the Soil Law, the Odelsgesetz and the Forestry Act’ laid down by the LMD on 8 December 2003, the amendment of 23 June 2009 in the second paragraph of Section 1 provides that in cases relating to the application for the concession of property to be used for agricultural purposes, the decision shall show how the price assessment has been made in relation to the individual parts of the property. [[no 1480]] [[no 831]] Where, on a discretionary basis, a price different from that at which the valuation of the individual parts is based is obtained, the main considerations which have been decisive for that purpose shall be stated.’;» This is part of a complete record of Gyldendal Corrective Data on how to understand the provisions. Therefore, the claim of the Right and Advance Party in the comment on the reference to the Golden Valley Straight Data – that those comments are not complete – is incorrect. It's a positive error. Your claim that the record from the current law gives a distorted picture of the content of the law is therefore also incorrect. The majority of the Committee points out that in its letter of 4 December 2013 of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to the municipalities, the counties and the State Agriculture Administration, entitled ‘Practisation of price controls’, among others. is: ‘Price control may have adverse effects on agriculture, including: because it can dampen the desire for investment of the owners.’» Further: «A viable and dynamic agriculture depends on a well-functioning market for the marketing of agricultural property.» Further: ‘The government wants to increase the turnover of agricultural properties and has the ambition to review legislation with a view to simplification. However, this may take some time.» End: ‘On this basis, the Ministry considers that price control practices should facilitate increased turnover.’ And then the decisive sentence comes: ‘The Ministry therefore recommends that the price agreed by the parties is not given decisive importance in the assessment of whether a concession should be granted.’ There is a clear understanding in the Committee that the content of the circulars on price assessments has changed over time. There has been a lot of discussion about the content, but at all times these circulars have laid down the basis for the price of concessional property, whether it was within a socially sound price development. When it has been so central, it is seaworthy because in agriculture and agriculture income policy targets are defined. It is income policy objectives for agriculture and income policy objectives are not linked to return on capital. The objective is linked to the work payment to be made by the work well done. Thus, the context is that if prices are too high, the remainder remaining for a seafarer for labour income will be lower. Therefore, there is a clear link between the general economic policy of agricultural policy and the law to ensure that the income targets are met. That's why we have the price control in the concession law. What has now happened is that at the letter of the department of 4.12.13 the price control is again just like a shell, without content. The real content is being removed, and that's why this case is where we are, because it's a breach of the constitutional basis for the ministry's work. At the same time, on the day that the Ministry sent out this letter, they also sent out the ‘Proposal to repeal the provisions on ‘price control’ in the concession law’. The Ministry then wrote in its letter of consultation: ‘The Ministry of Agriculture and Food proposes to repeal paragraph 9 of the first paragraph. 1 of the concession law of 28 November 2003 No 98.’» On this basis, a majority of the Committee shall depart from this. And the members of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left will point out that there is a safe administrative tradition that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food through circulars has clarified the principles underlying price control in the concession law. This has not previously been done through recommendations from the Ministry. By letter of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of 4 December 2013, the previous circular describing the principles of price control was effectively terminated. Furthermore, the members of the Committee of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party say that the Ministry's letter of 4 December 2013 prejudges the Stortinget's consideration of the government's consultation proposal to abolish price control in the concession law. This majority believe that it is critical that the government sent letters to municipalities, county councillors and the State's agricultural administration to in effect disregard Section 9, first paragraph, No. 1 in the treatment of concession, because the government proposes to cancel it later. What is more, all parties, including the Left and the Christian People's Party, point out that the hearing on the abolition of price controls ended on 1 February 2014. The hearing opinions show that the view of the price control was shared. The same majority believe that there are good reasons to look at the regulation of price control in the concession law, but look at it, look at the principles that exist and follow the secure administrative tradition that has been, namely to have circulars defining the content of price control. On this basis, the same majority say that it was unfair for the government to send letters to municipalities, statesmen and the SLF to in effect disregard Section 9, first paragraph, No. 1 in the treatment of concession, because the government will propose to cancel this. The letter from the government presupposes that Storting's legal handling of the government's announced proposal to abolish price control in the concession law. Finally, on this basis, the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party promote the following proposals: ‘The Commission asks that a letter entitled ‘Practice of the price control of 4 December 2013 to the municipalities, the county councillors and the state agricultural management to disregard Section 9 of the First paragraph of the concession law. 1 immediately be withdrawn.’;» I recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1077	First, I would like to say that I fully agree with the legal review of this matter by the rapporteur. It's very worked through, as he's presented it. There is no doubt that the legal aspects of the case are to be understood as the rapporteur has presented it here from the Spokesman of the Stortinge. Everyone who participates in this debate knows that this matter has been going on in Stortingen for quite a long time, and has been dealt with in different ways. The last time we discussed it was after the opinion of the Business Committee, where the same questions were also discussed alongside the actual realities of the case and the impact on agricultural policy. I would like to add that it was the content and form of the debate that led the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs to reopen this matter once again, because the Council of State, Listhaug, in that debate, did not appear to be in attendance for what was obviously also the opinion of the majority of the population that this was an unfair behaviour towards the Storting. She knows that very well where she sits, that it was said, and that is why this case has come back here today. So I would say the following: Agriculture policy is, as we have discussed earlier, a front line in Norwegian policy, as it has evolved. It is that we have clear differences in the opinions on how agricultural policy is to be pursued also for the future, and the significance it has for the Norwegian community – very clear differences between what I call a little bit slightly the right and left sides. That's really just the way it should be. There's no problem that there's a disagreement. It is only good that people read, write and participate in the debate in this important policy area, and perhaps more than before. So what's the point here from the Control and Constitutional Committee? That's not the reality of the question itself, that's the way the government goes about it. If the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs is to play an active role in the Storting, this is at the heart of the Committee on Control, namely to ensure that government and administration apply the law adopted by the Stortinget, and as the Stortinget believes the law is understandable. That is not the case in this case. Also in the position presented here, there is a very clear majority who say that the government's understanding of the law is contrary to the letter of the law, as explained by the rapporteur, and contrary to the Storting's own understanding of what the law is like today. Nevertheless, in this case, both the Council of State chooses Listhaug and the Government as such to disregard it — apparently, if the Council of State does not say anything else here today. It's a serious situation. There's someone who says we're doing this to plague the Council of State, Listhaug. No, she can come here with a proposal, get it adopted as she wants, as she might have got – I get to say maybe. Then everything had been fine. But that's not what they're trying to do. They're trying to bypass the Stortinget as a legislative authority. I put in what I had to have of authority as head of the control committee and I say, we can't have this going on! We are going to discuss later today a matter that lies in exactly the same street, namely the question of snowmobiles and test system. Then another government council comes to the Stortinget to explain it. Also in that case, we now have the Civil Ombudsman's clear statement, which says it's against the law. On that basis, the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has also had to re-examine that matter. I don't know what the Minister for the Environment will say later today, but I guess she'll be on the same line. The Minister of Agriculture provides a justification for his political action based on the Government Declaration. She says, ‘In the political platform of the Solberg Government, the government has announced that it will give each farmer greater power over his own property by making changes to agricultural property legislation.’ Then, of course, we've got the clarity of what the Solberg government wants. It will, as the rapporteur said, sell agricultural properties to the highest bidder. The problem here is that the Council of State confuses a declaration of government with the law. A government statement does not bind Stortinget in that way, it is a political document. That's the law, and before you've changed the law, you can't do what the council has done, that's to send a letter that says you can ignore the law, until a new one is adopted. This is the responsibility of the control committee, and the confusion and political argument reveals the political tactics of the government, namely: the political argument is to be put into practice, and then we get to take the law as we reach it. But it is so urgent that we have to get this policy started right now – in violation of the bulk of the population. This is of course a principal and serious problem for the Storting, and it should, in my opinion, call on the entire Storting's attention on a principle basis. However, it must be a political challenge for the Christian People's Party and the Left that surely, for what is called 'parliamentary reasons', will not today be voting for the proposal that the rapporteur has made and which I strongly support, because then it will be a so-called'situation'. But the comments are quite clear. They are not to be misunderstood, and I quote the note where all the parties, except the two government parties Progress Party and Right, say: ‘However, the majority consider it impeccable for the government to send a letter to municipalities, county councillors and the SLF to in effect disregard Section 9, first paragraph, No. 9 of the concession law. 1 in the case of concession treatment because the government would propose to abolish this.» That's what the argument is. In addition, the note states: ‘The government’s letter presupposes the handling by the Storting of the government’s announced proposal to abolish price control in the concession law.’ In any case, in relation to the Christian People's Party and the Left, it is actually being promoted that the Christian People's Party and the Left will support such a bill when it comes to treatment in the Stortinget. I have not heard any representatives from the Christian People's Party and the Left express unconditional support for such a development in terms of price control. Not once have I heard them say it in public space, in committee or here in the Chamber. So it has to be very uncertain, and it further underscores my point that you're pushing a decision that you don't have inside, which you haven't even promoted for the Storting, so that we know the concrete content, but you still zero out a very decisive rule in the law. That's what's not going to happen. I also notice that government council Sundtoft uses the same technique. We're going to discuss that later, but I'm going to say that because it's basically relevant in this case. Sundtoft refers to the government statement as an argument for an attempt to undermine the Test Act. It's the exact same thing that happens, and then the question is, is this just something these two councils are defending, or is this government's policy towards the Storting? That's what's at the heart of this case. That is why I would like to end by saying that on this basis, of course, we support the recommendation. It would be quite correct if the Storting now said that this letter had to be withdrawn on a principle basis, in order for us to be able to clean up the legal process and in the relationship between corruption and government. This is elementary knowledge of the relationship between state powers – elementary knowledge! – and we should not be challenged from a minority government in this way as the Council of State, Mr. Listhaug, does in the very matter in question, on behalf of the government. I understand it's hard. I say that, and I really fully understand it, as I have said. But I would once again urge the Left and Christian People's Party to vote for the vote. It is the only natural conclusion to the comments and opinions that the two parties also have in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1120	It has been interesting — as a phenomenon — to hear the first two posts. First, we heard the case rapporteur, who is one of the largest followers of the regulatory economy, and I do not overlook the fact that the underlying attitude towards regulating – in this case the price of agricultural property – may have infected the legal outlay we were given. Despite the immediate agreement of the head of the control committee, I would nevertheless prefer to say that there are some faulty premises in the argument here. We are still insisting that we have not been able to reproduce the current law either in the notes or at the layout that has arrived here today. It is simply due to the fact that the law itself provides an indication that there are five aspects to which particular emphasis can be placed under the first paragraph of Section 9 of the Concession Act. The decision as to whether to authorise the transfer of property will therefore depend on a test as to whether these five considerations are present — whether they are present in the individual case and with what weight they are present in the case on the table. Then you make a decision after an overall assessment. These considerations are therefore, as has been pointed out, the desire for socially sound price developments, consideration of the location in the area, operational conditions, suitability for the acquirer, consideration of generally sound resource management, for example. the protection of the cultural landscape, and there are other elements in the second and third paragraphs which can also be weighted. When the legislator, i.e. the Storting, has previously used the term ‘among other things’, it is a warning that the considerations mentioned are to be properly taken into account and assessed. But that doesn't mean that there's been an exhaustive calculation once and for all of the considerations that can be attributed to weight. Thus, other elements can be considered when they are relevant in order to fulfil the purpose of the concession law. It has been a practice for differing ministers of agriculture and food to send circulars to assist in the uniform administration of the law of the concession authorities. Among other things, a 2009 circular states: ‘Concession authorities must decide on the extent to which the different considerations apply, i.e.: whether they are relevant in the case and with what weight they act in the case. Special attention shall be paid to the law, with a high degree of emphasis. However, in an overall assessment where such considerations are to be assessed in relation to other relevant elements, it is not always that such elements have a decisive impact on the outcome of the case. There may be various reasons for this, such as the fact that the other elements together draw towards another solution, or that the consideration which is to be given special attention under the law does not apply with particular strength in the specific case. An example is the acquisition of properties in areas where the purpose of residence is not, or only to a small extent, applied. In such cases, less attention may be given to this consideration in the circumstances than to other considerations relevant under the law.’;» The interesting thing is that this I am now quoting is a circular drawn up – one can almost doubt whether that is true – by a party trap by the case rapporteur, Lundtägen. It has been developed by former Minister of Agriculture Lars Peder Breck. The assessment made in the circular is in accordance with the legislative will expressed in this Chamber. This assessment can be found in the preparatory work and is based on practical decisions, including: a decision in the Ministry from 17 October 2008, which states: ‘The system of law, however, is not such that a concession application should be rejected without further delay even if the price is too high on the basis of the guidelines. There is an opportunity to take into account other relevant elements which fall within the scope of the law.’;» This shows with all due clarity that when a new circular under the current Council of State states states that pristine reasons are not necessarily to be given decisive weight, a tradition from the past is included. And ‘decisive’ means that when the price is on one side and the other calculated considerations are on the other, it is not that the price question alone should lead to the transferee being rejected. It is also interesting that regulators take it for granted that regulated prices should be low in order to take account of societal developments. I want to stay at that reasoning a little bit. Thus, the term ‘socially sound price’ refers almost to the synonymous meaning that there should be artificially regulated underprices at the same time. We have gained quite animal-bought experience with price regulation that has worked over time in the agricultural sector, but not least outside. What's our experience is that price regulation strips the owners of the outback by owning property, while the owner has to bear the full downside risk. In addition to the sales situation, which the concession law aims to regulate, such regulation also reduces — i.e. pressuring people to convert to underprice — the suitability of the property as collateral for loans, it undermines the foundation of agricultural mortgages. I heard an economic comment from the case rapporteur, but if we first address the social impact, we must also look at the effects of the fact that owners of such priced property also have to bear higher financing costs for investment, typically by extension, by modernisation or by extensive maintenance taken at regular intervals. Thus, it can simply be argued that the objective of the law on socially sound pricing is precisely to emphasise the realistic market price, which is at the same time the most socially sound one. This could be achieved without changing the law, by reference to the purpose clause of the law, through dynamic interpretation of the law, the interpretation of the law to which the rigid wording of the law is to be adapted to a new reality and new experience. Now the government has announced that you want a review, you want an updated law. Of course, what is then the evaluation theme of the control committee is not the regulatory approach or the view of agricultural policy, it is whether the letter of 4 December 2013 from the Minister of Agriculture and Food respects the law or is on the outside of the law we have. Then it's perfectly obvious, with what I've shown, that you've also explained in the past in the same street and from the same reasoning that the current Council of State has done, that you've been loyal within the limits of the current law. In this picture, it is very timely that the Council of State has given the concession authorities a reminder of the degrees of freedom that exist within the law as it is today, without foreshadowing – of course – the law that comes. I would also like to say that if you quote several parts of the letter, instead of characterizing it quite unfairly as setting aside the law – zeroing price regulation – you will see from a concrete review of the letter that has been criticised here by the case rapporteur and the chairman of the control committee that the letter itself shows that there is still a price control, while recommending to the municipalities that they make the overall assessment that has also been based on previous circulars. The law no longer lays down the decisive emphasis on price when assessing whether to grant a concession, and this is – as I have mentioned – in the preparatory work of the law, where it is demonstrated that the discretionary assessments to be made can be adapted to changes in the development of society and changing policy considerations. Thus, the provision is designed to enable it to take account of the fact that the view of what is socially sound price developments can change over time. In relation to the purpose of the law, Ot.prp. No 79 for 2002–03 stated that the law could take account of changing assessments. The proposition reads as follows: ‘The word is so liberal that it allows for development and change of an actual nature in technical, economic, social and other areas, including: with regard to needs and resources. It provides, among other things: playroom for changing perceptions and reassessments.’» What we see in this case is that it is this room of action that has been used, loyally within the current law, when the letter was sent out to the municipalities, the county councillors and the state agricultural administration. It is not a space for action that the Council of State has taken, but a space for action, the Storting knowingly and willfully opened up in the 2003 Act. So, of course, you can ask: does there any independent purpose serve to remind you of the space of action in a law that you have notified formal changes to if not for long? I want to say that the answer to that is also an obvious yes. But it's not for the sake of the political sphere, it's for the sake of the users of the law today. The Ministry's letter of 4 December was sent to avoid creating uncertainty in municipalities and among sellers and buyers about how the practice of price control should take place until Stortinget has made the clarifications in the law that one wants. The letter therefore intends to contribute to the treatment of applicants by different municipalities in this intermediate phase, which is in the same situation, which is also a foundation of good administration. And once again, the letter goes into an undisputed practice where it has just been up to the serving Council of State to define more precisely what is being stressed within the boundaries of the law. It is therefore of course not in any way critical that the government sent out the letter in question. The reason why the letter was sent out was precisely the desire to avoid uncertainty in the market for the marketing of agricultural property. Such uncertainty could also have as a social unfortunate consequence that turnover would stop pending the handling of the law by the Storting. Consequently, there is no cause for Stortinget to ask the Ministry to take steps to recall the letter. I see the attempts made on this occasion, which – let us say – are more political in the context of an underlying reality of agricultural policy, which is not really within the remit of the Control Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1172	The Progress Party believes that this should not be a matter for the Stortinget, and has in the past also completed that topic in the Committee. Now the red-greens especially wanted to take this up, and that's why we have it as a case now. On 4 December 2013, the Minister of Agriculture and Food sent letters to the municipalities, county councillors and State Agriculture Administration, recommending that, in assessing whether a concession should be granted, no decisive emphasis is placed on the price agreed by the parties on the acquisition of agricultural property. Questions have been raised by the members of the Control and Constitution Committee, with the exception of those of the Progress Party and the Right, whether this is within the scope of the law and in line with current price control legislation. I see the concession law as a flexible law, which is designed to continuously evaluate different social conditions. Already in Chapter 1, Section 1, which deals with objectives and instruments, it is said: ‘The purpose of the law is to regulate and control the movement of real estate in order to achieve effective protection of agricultural production areas and of the most beneficial ownership and use conditions for society, inter alia. to meet: the needs of future generations. the agricultural industry. the need for a basis for development. consideration of the environment, general nature protection interests and open-air interests. consideration of the settlement.’;» This involves making a number of discretionary judgements to adapt practices to changes in development and changing policy views. Over time, the needs of future generations will change. The agricultural industry as such is not static either, and among other things. housing considerations will also differ according to changing interests and wishes. One should expect the Minister of Agriculture and Food to continuously assess what is most beneficial to society in terms of ownership and use conditions and the protection of agricultural production areas. Section 9 of Chapter 4 of the Concession Act refers to five aspects of whether or not to grant a concession. These are: whether the agreed price corresponds to a socially sound price development as to the purpose of the transferee, taking into account the location in the area where the acquisition involves an operationally sound solution if the transferee is considered fit to operate the property if the acquisition takes into account the overall management of resources and the cultural landscape; As stated in the reference in Section 9 of the Concession Act, there are five different aspects to consider when considering an application for a concession. In the preparatory work of the law, it was said in its time that the list is not exhaustive, and that other elements can also be involved in the decision. The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party consider it to be critical that the government sent letters to municipalities, county councillors and the State's agricultural administration to in effect disregard Section 9, first paragraph, No. 1 in the treatment of concession, because the government will propose to cancel this. In the recommendation for a decision, the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party propose the following: ‘The Commission asks that a letter entitled ‘Practice of the price control of 4 December 2013 to the municipalities, the county councillors and the state agricultural management to disregard Section 9 of the First paragraph of the concession law. 1 immediately be withdrawn.’;» I must say I am surprised at the content of this proposal for the Stortinget. The Minister for Agriculture and Food has not said that one should disregard Section 9, first paragraph, No. 1st@item: inlistbox This isn't right. What the Council of State has said in its letter – and I find reason to refer it again – is: ‘The government wants to increase the turnover of agricultural properties and has the ambition to review legislation with a view to simplification. However, this could take some time. On this basis, the Ministry considers that price control practices should facilitate increased turnover. The Ministry therefore recommends that the price agreed by the parties be not given decisive weight in the assessment of whether a concession should be granted.’;» Unfortunately, with the proposal for a decision by the red-green parties referred to in I, it may seem that the Stortinget is led to believe that it has been asked by the department to disregard Section 9, first paragraph, No. 1st@item: inlistbox This is not the case. The Ministry has recommended that the price should not be given decisive weight in the assessment of whether to grant a concession. It's something completely different. Otherwise, I would like to refer to the very good response of the Council of State to the Committee of 6 January 2014, which is attached to the matter. Finally, I would recommend the Committee's recommendation to II.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1242	In the view of the Christian People's Party, it is unfortunate that the government sent out letters to the municipalities and the county councillors about almost abolishing the price control in the concession law, because this can be seen as an advance on Storting's handling of the bill. In our opinion, it was imprudent to send out a letter which almost takes it for granted that the proposal will have a majority in the Grand Duchy, especially when the parliamentary situation in the Grand Duchy indicates that this will not be the case. The political situation in the Grand Duchy has changed since the last elections. We're back to what's been more normal in the last decades: a minority government. This means that power is now in this hall. Today's government must therefore deal with several parties in order to secure the majority. This gives the power of the Storting. That is an advantage for democracy, and not least it means that the distribution of power again becomes a valid principle in our country. The government shall be the executive, while the Storting is the legislator. These are the realities of the Christian People's Party, which expect the government to deal with, and which also means that neither single-state government nor government can take the consent of the Storting for granted. This must apply in agricultural policy as well as in all areas where the majority of the Grand Duchy had to have positions other than the government. Although not the content of the agricultural policy in terms of price control and the concession law, is the starting point for dealing with this matter today, I still want to use a few words on our party's position at this point, since several others have been involved. For the Christian People's Party it is important to keep price control on agricultural property. The removal of this instrument will create a much smaller degree of predictability for Norwegian agriculture and not least make it more difficult to ensure recruitment to the farming profession in the future. In particular, in the areas around the cities, the prices of agricultural property will be easily driven by persons and firms wishing to develop farm properties for dwellings or leisure properties, thereby cutting down on the farm you might have today. This prevents farmers wishing to purchase agricultural property for the purpose of operating the uses, as the market value of the property without price control will not be defended with the income that the farm will have the opportunity to provide. One objective of the EEA is that recruitment should be part of the agricultural policy objectives of the Norwegian agricultural policy. However, a price-free policy would be detrimental to precisely this recruitment – and not only to it, but also to resource use, which is in contrast to the Stortinge’s goal of increasing food production and increasing self-sufficiency. Although we believe that there may be reasons – and good reasons – to look at the regulation of the price control in the concession law, we are of the clear opinion that it was unbidden by the government to send letters to the municipalities, the county councillors and the state agricultural administration about what we consider to be really ignoring the concession law § 9, first paragraph, No. 1 for the treatment of concession. We experience that the letter has created uncertainty and interpretation problems for both municipalities and county councillors, and this contributes to a lack of predictability. We experience this as unfortunate. The Christian People's Party is not today going to support the proposal put forward by the Red-Greens, but we have nevertheless clearly expressed our view of the government's handling of this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1259	First of all, I would like to endorse the statements made by the President-in-Office of the Committee, Martin Kolberg, and, in fact, almost all the contributions made by Mr Gruvan, except for the very last one. This matter is not really about what kind of agricultural policy we are going to have, it's about whether the government can intervene with this type of letter and change the law until it's changed in practice. What makes this matter special politically, too, is that the government has failed to secure in advance a majority for the amendment it has sent out – at least it is a little surprising that the Left Party, which may have to be part of the parliamentary majority on which the Council of State is based, is not present in this Chamber today. But the left obviously dares not to show up today. This is not about considering different issues within the current law, as several representatives have been involved – that is correct – but it is not that one has said that one can ignore one of the concerns of the key governance mechanisms in this law. Then you can discuss whether price control is correct or not. SV believes that it has been absolutely necessary for those who are going to buy a use to afford to live on it, because then what the use throws off must capitalize what it has purchased. It is part of the ‘deal’ between society and agriculture that we have such arrangements that it is possible to live on the uses you buy, so it has a good purpose. SV means it, and now we hear that the Christian People's Party clearly also means it. The government doesn't think so, but the government has sent out a letter asking the municipalities, who are responsible for practicing this law, disregarding one of the important points. And that is what is critical. That shouldn't have been done. You can come to the Stortinget with a bill on this, where you say that we are deleting this now, and then get a majority for it – before you go on. This is the important task of the control committee in this matter, but it is now a picture of a government which, through this type of action, has not always secured that majority in advance. You are, as I was in the middle of it, very good at using regulations, but you also send various kinds of signals to direct a policy. I want to ask the Christian People's Party and the Left very clearly whether they're satisfied with the direction that it now seems that they're letting the government rule, where the government gets to go very far in its direction, and then you're saving it a little bit back into the Stortinget. We saw the same thing in the agricultural business a few days ago, we've seen it in the debate around ostetoll, we've seen it in several cases: the government and the government parties say they have their policies, and they're still standing on it, and then you have to come to the Biggest and get a majority that dampens it a little bit. My advice will be that those who are supporting parties for this government now have to see that the time has come to put the foot down – at least I expect you to put your foot down when it comes to not dealing with the law that is in force. You can disagree completely about the policy, you can both change and eliminate the laws – I can disagree politically, but that is not what this is all about. If you are to have confidence in a government, you have to know that it does not, consciously, use a tactic in which other channels ask for areas of responsibility, for example. to practise this law, to disregard parts of the law before it is amended. I am not surprised by the government, but I am surprised that the Christian People's Party and the Left – especially the Christian People's Party, after the post that was held here – do not conclude in another way. It remains to be seen, when the matter comes to Stortinget, whether it gets a majority or not, but it should be so – and it is the task of the Monitoring Committee to ensure that it is so – that until the law is amended, the law we have today applies. That's what this case is about. This is a matter that is important to many of us, and that is very important to them. Too many people might look small, but the problem here is if this principle fails. Then we are in a serious situation, and then it is also about the fact that a large number of people have to be able to dry out even when your own makes mistakes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1280	There have been many rounds of letters from the Ministry on the practice of price control, both in the Committee on Control and the Constitutional Committee and in the examination by the Stortinge of proposals for representatives. I believe that most things about the letter have been said on my part. I would like to stress that I am not taking lightly the criticism that has come. At the same time, I believe that there is a basis for noticing the explanation I have given. My short version is that I believe that laws should be observed and that the letter is within the scope of the law. I would also like to clarify that it has not been my intention to prejudge the treatment of Storting by sending out the letter. The reason for the broadcast was that it was desirable to avoid a situation where the turnover of agricultural property stopped. So there was a good reason to make such a recommendation to the municipalities. I have also pointed out to Stortinget that it is not new within this law that a letter is sent to the municipalities with a recommendation on the practice before a legislative change has been adopted by Stortinget. In its examination of Document 8:29 S for 2013–2014 on 8 May this year, the Storting stated that they believed the process around the letter had been inexhaustible. At the same time, there were different perceptions in Stortinget about how I should correct what they thought was an unfortunate process. The Christian People's Party and the Left wanted to get a proposition where one could look at the regulation of price control again, while the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party wanted a new letter to be sent out. I said at the time in Stortinget that I would of course deal with the Stortinges opinion on this matter. I have dated 6 January 2014 in a letter to the Control and Constitutional Committee, showing that my goal has been for the Stortinget to receive a proposal to terminate the price control for treatment during the spring 2014 session. As a follow-up to Stortinget's treatment in May, I have submitted that proposals for the abolition of price control in the concession law can be promoted for Stortinget tomorrow. The size will thus be given the opportunity to deal with the core of this case when one meets again in the harvest. I have therefore done my part to ensure that the Storting now gets the matter processed. I am looking forward to a good and constructive dialogue with the Stortinget on this important proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1296	Property law and the interaction between property laws have contributed greatly to the diverse and family-run agriculture that we see in Norway today. Together, property law balances the need for long-term and sustainable resource management and food production and is also a prerequisite for a diverse national use structure. It is therefore the case in Norwegian agriculture that ownership — and therefore the possibility of operating — is an option for many, not just a right for the few. There is often a urge to create an impression that Norwegian agriculture is pervasive and detailed. It is often used in rhetoric, especially from the right. But agricultural property law has a strong historical foundation. It has its background in the concession law, which in turn derives from the Civil Law Act of 1888. But it is not that the text of the law is unchanged from that time until today. It is quite correct, as several representatives have pointed out, even under the red-green government, the regulation on price control was softened – twice – in line with developments and needs in industry. However, there was a anchoring in the majority of Storting, not through sudden letters from the department. It also occurred as a change within the purpose of the law, not through a change that in reality disregards what is stated in the law, namely that price control should focus on whether the agreed price corresponds to socially sound price developments. So what's different from the previous one is that one tries to bypass wholesale treatment, probably on the basis that one is uncertain about whether one has a majority in the Stortinget. In the past one has also made changes and adjustments, but then with a clear parliamentary majority basis in the Grand Duchy. The centre party is open, as is also evident from the setting, to look at adjustments in the regulation of price controls. But there were strong signals about keeping price control in the hearing that has been done in ours, and I hope that it will also be taken into account in further legal work. In addition, the Central Party will come back to the aspects of price control at Stortinget's processing of the bill notified by the government, which the Council of State has now confirmed will go to the Council of State tomorrow. The size has previously addressed the content aspects of the Minister of Agriculture and Food's letter that prices should not be given decisive weight. The matter was then discussed in the Business Committee. Both in the comments of the majority and in the debate on the matter at that time, there was strong criticism of the behaviour of the government, and there was also an expressed expectation that it would be cleared up in line with that criticism. Then we all know that the answer from the Council of State and the Right representatives in that debate was such that the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee so that it is necessary to re-examine the issue of price control. Because, in fact, it is that the Council of State does not consider its conduct to be pre-emptive of legal proceedings, is not sufficient to reassure the Stortinget. The majority still say that the letter should never have been sent. The Christian People's Party and the Left also go so far as to say it's all inexorable, and so did they in the nutrition committee. In other words, what we stand back with here is a very uncertain parliamentary basis for the decisions made by the government and the ministry, but we are also left with the government putting the Left and Christian People's Party in an incredibly difficult situation, and politically putting them in a difficult situation. I also believe that the contributions of the Christian People's Party here today confirm that it is not easy to deal with this situation of the Left or Christian People's Party. I must also say that I am a little surprised at the relationship of the representative Tetzschner with the political aspects of this matter. His contributions also bear the mark of an attempt to overlook the fact that there is very uncertain whether there is a political majority for what the government is doing. That's what's at the heart of this case, that the Left Sea is not here today, and we can't hear their opinion, it's not that one can ignore the views of the political majority, especially to such a central issue relating to property law in agriculture. I also feel that the representative Tetzschner, on the one hand, is trying to minimize the content of the circular sent out, saying that it is not so much more than what you did earlier, while at the same time arguing strongly against what he calls a price underregulation. Then Tetzschner also argues that one is loyal for the purpose of the law, while strongly defending the need for a new law. I have to say that the kind of argument that Tetzschner made there was a rather demanding exercise. I think it's all about him trying to ignore that he doesn't necessarily have a political majority for what he wants to accomplish. The members of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee have been involved and will probably also later come to the more fundamental and constitutional aspects of the matter. But it is clear that respect for the majority of the Storing, for the laws that have been passed and the purpose of those laws, is not least important, and that must also be the basis for the government's work. In fact, there is reason to mention that the circular has already got the following. In my home country, decisions from the County Agriculture Department on prices have been reviewed by the State Agriculture Administration, on the basis of the circular sent out by the government without having coverage for it in the Stortinget. In the current case, the price was doubled. That in itself should also be an argument that the Christian People's Party and the Left take a thorough assessment of the further work on the law in this area. I think it is appropriate that the Council of State today comes to Stortinget and says that the bill comes as soon as possible. It's sad that we haven't had the opportunity to discuss it in the past. We must note that when it is presented on the last day of the session, it means that it is hardly dealt with on this page of New Year, so both for the Stortinget and for the industry seas, I think it is very unfortunate that it takes a long time for you to clarify this question. But the essence of the matter is, in any case, that it is not easy to see the evidence of respect for either the majority of the population or agriculture in the government's overall handling of this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1320	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1323	The matter has been widely debated, twice in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs and once in the Economic and Social Committee, so it is at least well covered. Even I have lived a whole life within this law, and I really want to characterize a lot of it as a political bingo. I'll get back to that a little bit. I think Kolberg said it very precisely when he said that the way the government is going is the matter. For the Minister of Agriculture, the same thing could have been achieved with what she has done, by doing as the Labour Party has done many times in the government position, i.e. halving the interest rate, the calculation rate, for example. You just do that with a circular drawing. For the last 15–20 years, the calculation rate of the price of agricultural property has varied from 9 pst. to 4 pst. To explain to the Storting what it actually means, the valuation of agriculture is a pure present value assessment of future income flows. 9 pst. interest rate in that calculation means that the value of the property is less than half of what it is at 4 pst. So the determination of value, the very basis of the whole industry, is a political bingo that has been changed many times by a circular in the Ministry of Agriculture, and which also illustrates that there is actually no correlation between the interest you have spent on land and the interest you have spent on forests. So there's a conflict inside there, and you don't have a definite relationship with whether this is a real interest rate, or whether it's a nominal interest rate. There are a lot of aspects of this matter that should be debated thoroughly, and I am very pleased that we are now getting a proper case for the Storting tomorrow that provides the basis for a proper discussion. For this, the framework is around an industry that is directly destructive to investment and ability. You can't fund and bring the values into future bets, and you also have a political risk in relation to the values you invest in. This, I believe, is what the Storting must take on the greatest seriousness. What we've been debating for a whole year now is an agricultural minister who's been honest enough to say that this is actually not the framework conditions that give the industry forward-looking assumptions, while in the past you've only juggled with the real interest rate in the calculations without anyone seeing that it's also making political bingo out of the values of agriculture. You don't deserve that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1334	I can't get into all the points in this post, so I'll get back. First, Mr Gundersen's representative. The representative Gundersen says that one could instead halve the calculation rate from 4 to 2 pst, and that what has been done in the past has been "bingo", and one has "singled with" the interest rate. With respect to reporting, it's wrong. There has always been a link between the calculation rate and the level of interest rates in society. The economic context is clear that when the price of capital is high, the value in use of the property is lower, because the cost of capital is relatively higher. The representative Gundersen gives the impression that what we're going to discuss is, among other things, future capitalisation factors. It's a principle that is related to the fact that we have price control – the capitalisation factor, which is thus the result of interest. If you have 4 pst. interest, you have a capitalization factor of 25, you have 2, you have a capitalization factor of 50. The capitalisation factor times the value in use in terms of annual returns then returns the value. This is a real debate. This is a debate that we want for price control. And that's within the tradition, so that's okay. So to the representative, Tetzschner, who said that the rapporteur is a regulatory economic supporter. Yes, the name is not mistaken when we understand what the content is. Correcting the market forces, being a blend economist, I'm proud, really proud that we're using the law, the tax and the tax to correct the market. It's just when we don't do it, that we get the social negative consequences. There is no coincidence that, for a long time until now, the Norwegian increase has been a clear supporter of economic policy, an economic policy that is now being challenged by the Right Party, then to those degrees. What has been said here is very clear on the part of the rapporteur. Finally, in this post: The representative of Tetzschner said that there was a ‘defective premise’ from the case rapporteur. I worked hard to represent the current right in a thorough, public-enlightened, documented way, so that in this debate we would have a better basis for further debate. It is essential for the rapporteur to present the full documentation for this, and it has been done. I'll come back to other relationships in my next post.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1349	The representative Count kept a very thoughtful post. If we listened carefully to what he said, he said for his part that price control was a very important instrument in agricultural policy. Now we do not know what the Left means – it is possible that the Left's representative will now take the floor and express his view. But nevertheless, this demonstrates to me that it is not possible for the government to say that one has a majority for an alternative policy to the legal provision we have today, as the debate here is now. It further underlines the fundamental question in this matter. For the whole reason of the Council of State in the letters she has given us, and what she just said in the pulpit of the Stortinge, is that there is to be a new policy and therefore they had to send a letter, so that the property matters do not stop. But is it the case that the government has a majority, or does it not have a majority, to abolish price control in the concession provisions? I didn't hear Gruvan say it. I don't know what left means. But it makes the matter further serious that the argument for sending the letter that the Council of State presents to the Storting also here today does not have the foundation of what is a documented majority. Then, of course, we are back to the fact that it should mean that the Left and Christian People's Party voted in favour of the proposal for Decision I. The representative of Gruvan has said they don't want to. I understand the parliamentary justification, so I understand it. But this has a serious aspect, as it is my duty to point out to the Storting: this puts pressure on the authority of the control committee. For then, the parliamentary, fundamental aspects of the matter go over the role and function of the control committee. I think that's serious. A majority of the control committee believes that this should not have been done. It's quite clear in the notes, and they're not even written by us. They are written by the Christian People's Party and the Left too. Finally, I just want to say: the representative Tetzschner said that the positions were contaminated by political views. When we heard the representative Tetzschner, I understand why he says that. For a clearer political input into legal formulations than he kept, you can look for a long time. It was quite clear and obvious that it works that way. But the letter, which relates to the government statement, is, of course, based on a political opinion. That's what's the problem when the population isn't getting this out.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1360	This was a bit funny, because the representative Lundtigen went right into the trap! He said that the calculation rate is related to the level of interest you have in society in general, and that's exactly what's the point. In the 1980s, we had a negative real interest rate in society. Then we had 9 pst. real interest in agriculture. We had a high nominal interest rate in society, but we also had a huge price rise. Soil and forest are perceived by everyone as being reasonably inflation-proof investments, they are rising with the price rise in value. That's just the point. Here we have a politically determined interest rate that you don't even have a definite relationship with whether is a real interest rate or nominal interest rate. When the level of interest rates in society is high, it is often due to high price increases. Then there are suddenly political decisions on a high level of real interest rates in agriculture. Now we actually have a situation with relatively high real interest rates in society, because it's almost not price rise. Then we sit at a low real interest rate in agriculture. That's just the point. Everyone mixes the real interest rate into a system that – I repeat – has made the valuation the very foundation of agriculture, i.e. the values. Agriculture and agriculture manage some of the most important things we have, the land in the country. Everyone is affected by it, everyone is looking at it, and everyone is earned with good management of the areas. They've made us a game around an idea of what's the nominal interest rate in society, and then you change it with a little pen stroke by making a circular letter. And that's what was my point. Had the Minister of Agriculture just set the interest rate at 2 pst, no one in this house had blinked, and we had put all the price control out of function, because there is no one, even in Norway, who will pay so much for most properties that you come up at such a price, if you expect a 2 pst calculation rate. They had doubled today's price level. There are perhaps some properties very close to Oslo that could then have been converted to that price level. This illustrates at all how uncertain and unforeseeable this whole system is. And I repeat, it is very good that the Minister of Agriculture is now making a proposition on the matter to the Stortinget tomorrow, so that we can get a properly reworked discussion on whether that is the way we are going to have it in agriculture in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1373	The next speaker is the representative Per Olaf Lundtigen, who is the rapporteur on the matter and therefore has 3 minutes of speaking time, although he has spoken twice before.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1376	I am very pleased to be the case rapporteur on this matter. First to the representative Gundersen: today's 4 pst. interest rate, which gives a capitalisation factor of 25, is a reasonable balance of the economic considerations that we are up to today. It's a reasonable balance that there hasn't been any major political discussion around. The representative says that if you had gone from 4 to 2 pst., there was no blink. Then he knows little about all of these people's knowledge of the conditions. It's clear that there had been a big discussion, because then we would have gone for a level of interest that is completely different from the actual level of interest that a meeting in the market, that is, a sum assessment that would have been unreasonable. However, it is worth noting that the capitalisation rate base only applies on the basis of the value in use calculations, which is the value in use, i.e. the return on land and the yield on land. A change in the capitalisation rate had only had an impact on the price associated with the use values. But it's the other values, which are not related to agricultural use, that are currently driving it all up. It is the values that make capital-intensive people today take advantage of to settle in order to obtain the authority in this, based on historical traditional forms, and not least to obtain out-land property, where the price level today is completely independent of the return. So having discussed the capitalisation rate base would have been a very advantageous thing, because then we would have stayed within what was the principles all along, that is, that it's a question of what is the value of property for agricultural purposes. Then we would have stayed within what is the core, that those who are working on the areas should have an opportunity to get a labour income from their work. But what we're doing now, by just keeping the shell and taking away the entire content of the price control, is we're completely removing ourselves from the principles that we've had. I am pleased to discuss further with the representative, Gundersen, because then we are discussing within a price control. But as I understand the Council of States, the proposal will be to remove the price control in general. So there won't be any discussion about what the representative Gundersen is now giving the impression that we're going to discuss in the future. But from the Center Party we want to discuss price control, because there is a need to ensure that those who work with soil and foam have a income from their work. The right has never been interested in it, because they have stood for a tradition that these people are not part of their choice base.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1389	It's often that if you repeat a mistake many times enough, it finally gets right. The representative, Lundtigen, said again that only when the price control itself is removed will it be shelled again. In this case, the red-greens have repeatedly claimed that the Council of State, with its letter, has repealed Section 9, first paragraph, No. 1st@item: inlistbox This isn't right. Governments have only recommended that prices should not be given decisive weight when making a broad assessment among all the five previously mentioned criteria. To the representative Karin Andersen, who expressed his surprise that the government parties are promoting the policy of these two parties: yes, it should be lacking. That is the policy on which the two parties have been elected. I must say that I think this matter has become a great storm in a very small glass of water. The Council of State has today informed us that she comes up with a matter of price control. It will be presented tomorrow's Stortinget, and until the fall we will have the opportunity to discuss the law itself. But until then, it is good that the Council of State has tried to mitigate the uncertainty in these kinds of cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1400	It was Marit Arnstad's visit to the undersigned who, after a little consideration, I found out could not stand entirely undisputed. Otherwise, there was an Ibsen quotation that came to me when I heard the post, and that is that when the starting point is like crazy, the result is usually the most original – precisely this: if you bite into the notion that the circular that went out of the department is outside the concession law, you will of course get an easy procedure to say that changes in the law should not come through circulars. No one argues. But what we're really discussing, as I also think I showed very clearly in my first post, is that this circular goes into the series of precise circulars that have had the same theme of assessment and sometimes similar conclusions, and then I refer to agriculture and food ministers, from the Workers' Party Gunhild Eyeang, and from the Center Party Lars Peder Breck. Then, as the representative Arnstad also referred to, I was aware that today's legislation has a purpose clause in which it is said that agricultural management and price policy should be designed in terms of what is socially sound price. It was in that context that I allowed myself to withdraw that it has major social adverse effects in the form of underregulated prices. That's why we've got rid of that kind of regulation, among other things. in the housing market, because it has other biases that may be discovered after long working hours. The essence of this is that there is no basis, as Arnstad says, for regretting the fact that the Council of State did not have a political majority behind it, precisely because she did not need a political majority because it was written in the context of the law in force. But then there is a moment that points forward towards new legislation, and it is that there has been feedback that turnover may have fallen because the market has exaggerated expectations about what changes are coming. It is then possible to use the space provided by today's law, namely that one can have a fairer and fairer price policy within the judgements already established in the current law, without in any way pre-empting what a new law will contain.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1411	The representative Kolberg concluded that what the government is doing here is confusing the government statement with the law, and that one first has to change the law. That's the core of the case, as the Center Party is said to be fully behind. The representative, Tetzschner, keeps saying that you have sent out a circular. No, no circulars have been sent out, a letter has been sent out. In all the years I have been associated with the Ministry of Agriculture, I have learned that ‘the Devil is in the details’ – that is, you have to have a level of precision that is very high when you read what comes from the Ministry of Agriculture. And it's no coincidence that this comes up with a letter, and not a circular, because the letter that comes here can for some people give the impression that the existing circular is next to it. But when one reads it, and knows the conditions, and sees how the letter is practiced, one understands that we are left with a shell of a price control without any content. Section 9 of the Concession Act has five aspects, focusing in particular on socially sound price developments, housing considerations, operationally sound solutions, the fitness of the acquirers and whether the acquisition takes into account overall resource management and cultural landscape. It is true, as the representative Tetzschner said, that an overall assessment should be carried out. It is only that, in practice, there are two factors that are leading in terms of whether or not a concession is granted. It is whether a person fulfils a personal living obligation and whether the price is in line with socially sound price developments. It is more demanding to consider what is a socially fair price development than a personal dwelling obligation. But the price control through what I have now described is followed up by experienced tariff people according to the principles of the circulars, and is dealt with politically by local authorities with a long experience. This is one of the most central points being debated in the circles occupied by who owns land, and what is development. So there's a knowledge outside this hall that's very large. There is a great deal of knowledge about this. It is the knowledge of the principles that have been so far, that is now set aside, because one no longer has any principles to assess the price from. Therefore, the reality is that the letter has removed the price control. Therefore, the proposal is to immediately withdraw the letter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1424	The representative Thorheim said that I criticized the government for promoting his own policy. By no means - that's what the guy has to do. But the government can't change a law without coming to the Stortinget and getting a majority for it. Then you can change a law in such a dramatic way as this would be. Now I see that the representative from the Left has signed up on the list of speakers. I'm glad, because it's possible that the Left supports the government's desire to tear away one of these legs from agriculture. That freedom to make that mistake they have. But the left must also believe that the law should be practised and not changed by letter to the municipalities. The representative of the Left must also go up here and say what he thinks about – whether it is right to remove one of the most important assessment themes in a law, via a letter, and whether the Left believes it is OK or not. I'm waiting for that to be clarified.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1432	The next speaker is Abid Q. Raja. There is no one from the Left who has spoken, and according to the debate, Raja will have a speaking time of up to 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1437	Let there be no doubt that the Left has been and is very critical of the letter sent by the Council of State. I read from the majority comment in the vote, which everyone in the Committee is behind, with the exception of the Right and Advance parties: ‘This majority believe that it is unfair for the government to send letters to municipalities, county councils and the SLF to disregard the first paragraph of Section 9 of the Concession Act in the treatment of the concession because the government will propose to abolish this.’ It also states that: ‘The letter of the Government prejudges the legal proceedings of the Stortingen against the Government’s proposal to abolish price control in the concession law’. This is the left hand side, so it's the left hand side. With regard to Mr Kolberg's question about the Left's view on price control, the Left proposed to double the price limits in the previous period. I believe that it was the previous government that raised the boundaries somewhat. So it's no longer relevant with such a double. In very short terms, I think everyone here in the hall knows that the left is to liberalize something, but not to release. The left is to soften up. With regard to what the government is presenting tomorrow, our starting point is to double the land limits and raise the amount to 3.5 million. NOK before the price check takes place. A number of properties that are currently subject to price control would then have been released, while at the same time maintaining price control as a security valve on the major properties and, not least, on the nearby agricultural properties. It is good that we have this debate. But this debate we have really had a few weeks ago. There was a long debate in this Chamber following the presentation by the Business Committee of its position on price control. I think it is a little pointless that we should now again debate everything that was debated then, and what we thought about it. I just refer to what the Left's representatives said during that debate. I don't think there's any reason to repeat those numbers. The vision of the left has been clearly expressed. In terms of the outcome of these long-term agricultural fluctuations, the final result is very close to the view of the Left. It must probably annoy many – probably many different political parties as well, maybe SV, because the final result is far from what SV believes. But it should also be noted that if it was the case that the Progress Party was allowed to decide on its own, the final result is also far from what the Progress Party believes. If the Progress Party had to decide for itself, the final result is a bit away from it – and much closer to the Left's view. We had e.g. a long debate here yesterday on the reform of municipal structures and regions. SV is very conservative, they don't want any reform at all – at least very conservative in relation to what the Left's view is. Then you can look at the government parties – two of the representatives are sitting here. They don't want to keep the regions, they want to remove it completely. But the end result is that there will be a reform, and the regions will be preserved. This is not close to the Left's view, it's the Left's view. So why should we go around and be anxious, concerned or at ease when we get the Left's policy adopted in this Chamber? So the starting point is that we have 5.3 pst. opening up and now having real power in this Chamber, and getting that policy our programme is preaching, I have no problem with that situation. I live very well with it. I think it's very comfortable, I think it's very good, and it probably annoys a lot of political parties. But that's how democracy works. We have a cooperation agreement with the government. We are very pleased with that cooperation agreement. We are very pleased that we are getting an impact on the policy of the Left. I'm not going to repeat what happened in the last eight years when another government crashed, and all the good proposals that have been voted down. Now we get focus on a number of the heart issues that the Left is burning for, it's environmental issues, it's transport matters, it's itself other issues that we debated and adopted yesterday. But I'm going to save the Storting for time, because we have a long day ahead of us, and I notice that this committee is very happy to talk. In between it may appear to be of no use. I'm just going to stop now and not draw me again, no matter what the others are going to say, because they're going to say some things, I guess. I've kind of gotten used to in this committee that there's a lot of games. But let it be said once and for all: for the Left and for me, soil protection, agriculture and cultural landscapes are very important. We are therefore pleased to be in the power position we are now in, so that we can get a final result in the policy that is much closer to the primary position of the Left. That's why it's extremely delicious to be a center party in Stortinget now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1471	The president assumes that the committee is debating, not talking. The representative Martin Kolberg has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1476	Two-way brief: The representative of Thorheim has been up twice and said that the proposal does not match the realities. But when it says in the letter that price control should not be given decisive importance, it is quite clear that there is an attempt here to circumvent the provisions of the law and that it justifies the proposal we have made. That's what's in the matter – I just wanted to say it. The second thing I want to say about is interpretation of the law. The Storting Hall is not a courtroom, it is the Norwegian National Assembly. What we are facing here is a majority – we have now heard the representative Raja say that he is behind the criticism – who believes that the understanding of the law has been wrong. So that's what's going on, not other legal considerations. This is constitutional practice and practice in Norway. Everything else would tear down our entire case law – if not this was the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1485	The representative Tetzschner had a visit to the former government council, Breck, who, through circular M-2 from 2009, elaborated it as the government then emphasized. Just so there is no doubt about it: I stand fully behind the wording and the view that the Council of State Breck had there. What is at the heart of what is quoted is the emphasis on housing reasons, which are supposed to be of different importance – whether there are press areas or there are areas that have problems with population development. So the representative Tetzschner said that a socially sound price development is equal to low prices. It's a basic mistake. The point is that since there is price control in the law, it basically means that price control is something other than free pricing. The whole point of the law on concession prices is that an opportunity is given to intervene in pricing and to lower prices in relation to what could have resulted in an unregulated market. This is the core, and it is at the heart of a principle that stands at the brink of all those working on this, because from experience and after looking at other countries, you see the consequences of this. The representative Tetzschner referred to something called the realistic market price – realistic in relation to what? It's an entirely unknown concept. Realistic market price has no anchoring in any circular. State Council Listhaug said that since you would not prejudge the changes to the laws, while avoiding the cessation of the turnover of agricultural property, they sent the letter. When you said that you wanted to change the law, and if you had not sent the letter, you thought that it would stop – because everyone in the industry and all the investors see that when the price control falls off, the price level will be completely different. What has happened, after sending out a letter – in the political situation you now have – is that it has already had the big consequences, as the representative Arnstad said. It has had great consequences. You've had a change in the price level that's enormous. In my county, Buskerud, it is now that those who buy land are the ones that have the least connection to land. If you've worked with land in the past, you don't have the financial ability to buy land. Those who have been trained in the subject will have a disadvantage. This cannot possibly be the will of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1498	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1501	What's important now is that there's a majority behind the criticism. It's not about how this should be, it's about how it's handled. We have a law that has to be observed until it is changed. You can't change that with a letter. I would urge the representative Raja to stick to the truth about the views of other parties on matters. SV is in favour of community reform, we are just against the coercion for which the Left is – because coercion is immature.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1508	It was the post of the representative from the left who needed to make a new post. The setting reads as follows: ‘In circular M-2/2012, it is stated that if the price of a built-up property is less than NOK 2,50000, the price evaluation shall be omitted.’;» This came into being in 2012, which means that there is no intervention in the regulation of the prices of concession-occupied properties when the price is less than 2.5 million. kr. That's where the price control is removed. The representative from the Left said that the Left stands for liberalizing something, but not releasing it. It's exactly the same tradition that the red-green government stood for. They liberalized on a number of points, but they didn't release. Now, when the left tells you what their vision is, that you want to look at the area limits and at 2.5 million. kr-limit and raise it to 3,5 million. kr, is discussed within the price control. When discussing at all within the framework of price control, the concept of ‘use value’ on agricultural land is not excluded inexorably. The value in use of agricultural land is the annual yield times the capitalisation factor. The capitalisation factor is – as revealed in the exchange of words with the representative Gundersen – the level of interest. What has then been clarified in this debate is that if the Christian People's Party supports what has been said here, we have been told that there will still be price control – there will still be price control. The government will suffer defeat in its view of removing the price control, and that is a very, very important principle win. This debate has produced results, and I am grateful for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1522	Others have not asked for the word on case 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1536	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that the debate be organised as follows: The case rapporteur shall be given up to 15 minutes, then each group of parties and the Council of State shall be given up to 15 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no opportunity for a change of line. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1547	The background to the discussion of the case of a new trajectory for the E16 through Lærdal is not a major political moment. On the contrary, the matter is a demonstration of how wrong it can go in pursuit of political opponents to score cheap political points. But the matter also has fundamental aspects, which it is absolutely necessary for the Storting to have knowledge of, and which can be debated here in the Chamber. I'll come back to this. It started, of course, in the media – as it so often does – with notice that former Environment Minister Bård Vegar Solhjell one week before the government change in 2013, despite the State Road Administration and decided that E16 would be put in a tunnel through Lärdal. It was claimed that this had been decided after the former Minister of State, Liv Signe Navarsete, had made direct contact with him on the matter. It was insinuated that Navarsete had personal interests in the matter, with the outreach that she lived only 300 meters from the European road, and that the state road service proposal would mean another 127 meters from her place of residence. There was no doubt that one would leave an impression in the public room that here the two councillors did not have at all clean flour in the bag. There was information in the press. I'd almost said we're used to this. But there is something else for me when big-time politicians who are also a member of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee do the same exercise and – I want to add – unreservedly present the criticism without even dealing with the facts of the case, checking its fact or taking reservations about what they say in public space. The accusations that came from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, had a tone and a content that far on the way surpassed what the press itself claimed – and that in a matter that for all of us who have been in politics for a while and have understood the essence of politics, clearly appeared as a non-thing. It's actually part of the job description of a elected politician to get things out of his own home country. In fact, it is also part of the responsibility and job of a government council to make decisions on matters that are undecided in the department, even if there are voices that speak against the decisions that are taken. Therefore, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV consider that the former State Council of Solhjell's decision on trasé for E16 through Lærdal is in line with the guidelines and good administrative practice. We believe that it is legitimate, important and proper to place great emphasis on what local democracy thinks in the proceedings in an objection case, even though of course it should be weighed against other considerations. For – and I consider this to be important – apart from the state road system, which sought a different solution, the local government in Lærdal and the county council in Sogn and Fjordane unanimously agreed to the decision on which the Council of State has relied. The parties represented here in the criticism were completely different in Sogn and Fjordane. This, of course, documents a political twist, and it shows me very clearly that this is what is called a political game. That is why it was a good political foundation for the decisions taken by the Solhell Council. It was considered in the decisions that I have already referred to. It was considered in a very thorough procedure in the department, which dealt with the appeal, and it was fully processed both legally and politically, according to all the rules, when the Council of State Solhjell made the decision on where to go. I will also reject something that appeared very clearly in the public room and that helped bring this matter forward. There were – as I started – allegations that, in particular, the former State Council of Navarsete had tried to think about their own interests. It is worth noting for Stortinget, who has now been dealt with this matter after our initiative, that none of this is repeated in the comments. All of the criticism that there was crazy proceedings like this, all the criticism that there was something that was supposed to mellow her own cake, is not repeated by any place. I'm saying this using body language too because it's very important to understand that you're not going to do that. The representative Raja said in the previous debate here a moment ago that he has experienced that there were a lot of games. Yes, at least this is a clear example of that, which should not be repeated in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, in my opinion. Because if you can stand up in public and criticize a named person, you have to have so much meat on your legs that you can repeat this in the setting itself – and do not run off and pretend that it has not happened. I think everyone should notice, and I'm at least saying it like I'm saying it. The Christian People's Party has said that they do not want to be part of this. It is a separate remark from the Christian People's Party on this which the representative Gruvan will probably explain to himself, so I just refer to this. So this became the basis for the matter being raised in Stortinget. On 30 January, the Committee received a letter from the Minister of State to the appropriate State to answer the question we had raised, and discussed the matter at its meetings on 25 February and 4 March respectively. It was initially an agreement to close the case, but then we experienced the following – and that is the other side of this matter: The Council of State letter – and I believe that the Council of State, which is now present, can explain in the debate later on, criticised neither the content nor the form of the decision. I say it again: the Council of State did not believe that the treatment was crazy, and did not join any of the criticisms that had been made in the public space of the representatives of the Right, the Advance Party and the Left – no. But that wasn't enough. Then the representatives from the Right, the Progress Party and the Left of the Control Committee would promote a protocol entry to the Control Committee’s protocol, almost in order to save themselves ashore, and wrote that the Council’s action had been ‘a little discretionary’. I think we should look for a long time after trying to promote a concrete criticism of a Council of State in a protocol that should not come to the knowledge of the Stortinge. It could not accept the majority of the control committee, and therefore this matter has come here. Then the representatives of the other parties try to say that we have raised the matter, because they would just be careful with a protocol and then kind of get it under the carpet. We can't have it like that. Then it has to be here, and that's why we're here today. I for my part and all the others were prepared to put the matter completely away – if the protocol was withdrawn. But you wouldn't. There is, of course, a fundamental aspect of the whole matter: the Control Committee cannot begin to criticise named persons and government councils in protocol applications that have not been dealt with by the Storting. It's such an immodest practice that it's not possible for me to defend it. So it's this to say further, that when we couldn't accept this, it was also because this contained an indirect criticism of the government's practice of handling matters after the election, where it was clear that the government was going to go off. It is the majority's view that the rules have been applied to points and points. We say in the notes – and I repeat this here – that the examples we have and that are relevant to relying on are the last government change, i.e. the government change after the 2005 elections. It is obvious and correct to claim that what the government did was a clear example of the former Clemet Council, which thus tried to carry out a number of privatisations of Norwegian schoolwork in contravention of what would obviously be the next big business majority's opinion. We did not criticise that as an administrative breach, but we criticized it politically. What will be the challenge for the Council of State Sanner in this debate will be to comment on whether the government has a different opinion on how a government will act after the election, when it is clear that it will go off, and whether it will announce new guidelines. Because if he does, it's okay for the Storting to know. It's okay to know whether the government he represents, when it's going to go off, will lie down and not make decisions that are criticised here. Here we are inside a very important principal waters, because there is a large majority behind this criticism. If it's going to stand up – if it's the way the government in this debate says that this criticism is okay, that it was little beauty of the Council of State Solhjell to do what he did – if the Council of State confirms it, we have a situation. If he doesn't, the matter is out of the world. I believe very strongly that we have not had any problems with the practice of the legislation that we have today. We've never raised these issues, we've thought the government would work, and it's not a business ministry until the Prime Minister has been on this pulpit and said he or she will leave. It is also quite clear – administratively – that it is right to say so. Therefore, the State Council acted Solhjell, and the government, quite in line with the legislation, and there was no basis for criticising neither this nor the behaviour of Navarsets and Solhjell in this matter. The opinion of the State Road Administration was different, and the Special Representative Tetzschner highlighted this as a crucial point of appeal. Yes, the state road service weighs heavily, but the democratic bodies said something else, and according to the established law, it is they who decide where to go in Norway. So when the case has come here, it's on this principle, so to be very clear that the criticism that has been made in public space has no foundation in reality. I believe that this is proved, both by the fact that they are not repeated in the vote, and that the Council of State does not believe that something has gone wrong. That's the one. The second is the question of the use of the government's own rules on how the government should act after a choice and when it is clear that it should go off. There, we believe that it has been fully in line with common administrative practices. And the third is that I state that we cannot have criticisms of individuals in protocol inputs, in relation to the Committee's protocols. There are three things that are going out and going, and therefore the matter has come here, and it is of great fundamental importance that we get clarity on these questions, and I attend the debate with great interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1591	Then representatives from all the parties have signed up, and then the order is slightly different than the president indicated, so the next speaker is the representative Michael Tetzschner and then the representative Helge Thorheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1594	I noticed that the case rapporteur has entirely stated to do what the case rapporteurs usually do, namely, to bring the Stortinget into the matter, into the topic, into the interesting issues, before you saw, at some point, explain the views of the party that you represent, and that others will explain their views. The only thing I could say I agree with, as far as I have noted, was that this matter started in the media. There's nothing wrong with that. There is an interaction between the criticisms made in the public and the information that flows to the public, and I can therefore say that many of us were amazed in January this year when there were details about the decision on a highly costly road solution in Lærdal, and that this was due to the internal influence that the press could refer to in more detail. Now it's not like you're going into all of the press's premises, as it seemed like the previous speaker thought the undersigned and others had done. We kept making reservations. I also want to say that they released the quotes from that time – I am not ashamed to see them again at all – was a very great reason to go into certain aspects of the government's handling of that matter. So it's like in some areas we have to work a little bit more formally in the committee, that is, just what we're 100 percent sure of, or at least until certainty limitative probability can tell us about. This meant that we had to put aside what was still not demented from any of the actors, and it was these political contacts that had been made after it was clear that the government would leave. So the objective facts have then let themselves be made clear, and what has emerged is that a very big political decision was made in the situation that one itself has guidelines for within the government to be careful to take. It was also striking that the chairman of the control committee in his speech had no reference to what is actually the subject of this matter, namely whether the state councils have complied with the government's internal guidelines on how to behave when it is known that the government is going off. Then I would like to make a clarification: in some contexts, when I was interviewed, I used the word ‘Ministry of Business’. That wasn't the government then. But the direction we've subsequently measured this up to, because the government's transition to a clean office business does not apply. So this is the one that was referred to earlier, about how you behave when it's clear to everyone that the government is going off, and that it was also clear from the government's management that it would go off, but before you had received a request from His Majesty the King to continue as the Ministry of Business. That is what is the reality of this. That is when we see that the matter had to be checked out, among other things. for the personal interests of some of the actors – precisely because former Central Party leader Navarsete and her husband had signed up for an inhabile when the case was up in the local municipal administration. And then we checked this out. One can still have an idea of how close the actors can be and still have an impact on what was the final result: that the state chooses a solution that the state's own professional authority, the Vegvesen, says is 400 million. are more expensive for taxpayers and, to this end, produce a lasting negative socio-economic return. So this is going to be 400 million. kr the same as a decision to grant. Of course, then one should be very careful to say that this allocation of resources – contrary to what is really economically reasonable – must have good reasons. And then, at least – and that's the control committee's task – you have to go into the subject matter to see if anyone has been satisfied on a non-substantial basis. I am pleased that the chairman of the committee has insisted that we use the plenary time of Stortinge for this, but there were also other issues related to the party leader Navarsete at that time that caused concern and suspicion, namely the receipt of personal gifts that were not stated, and – perhaps worse still – the receipt of money transfers from public owned power companies, camouflaged as non-real Consulate Summits, channelled into the Centre Party under the leadership of the same Navarsete. You learn from experience here in the world, and it's clear that sometimes, with such a history, some lamps flash faster than other times. In order not to be accused of using the control committee for games, but only to follow the publicly available information that has appeared in the press, we had to stick to the external facts that were known. We couldn't rely on the press's information, although they undoubtedly had good sources, for example. from the Centre Party itself. But as long as they weren't confirmed, we couldn't rely on them. But we have noticed that none of the information has been compromised by the data subjects. We stayed behind with the then environmental state council Solhjell's indisputable decision, just before he was going off, in a major political case. Then, of course, there is no criterion that the decision itself was popular anywhere. That is not what is democratic anchoring. The Control Committee must ensure that the priorities of the Storting are not to be affected by side considerations. We conclude that on the basis of the government's internal guidelines, the Council of State did not exercise Solhjell a good sense, and we say that the decision was not very discretionary. There is also an opening in which the Council of State may have been wrong about the situation and had not fully understood the instructions that the government would be working on. There is no violent moral renunciation in this, but that there was a misassessment, I would like to repeat from here. It is really quite excellent that the chairman of the committee has given us the opportunity to present this criticism in plenary, which belongs to a democracy. For perhaps a little more embarrassing reasons, there has been a reference to past practice by former Minister of Knowledge Clement, where the committee leader referred to the privatisation of the schoolwork. It wasn't the theme that time. At the time, the Stortinget had passed a law on high school, so that everyone who met the objective criteria of the law to get permission to run school had not only the opportunity to run the school, but they also had the right to do so. It is safe administrative law that, pending a forthcoming government change, these applications cannot be put in the drawer, precisely for the interests of third parties. There would have been a neglect of duty and poor employment to stop the processing of applications that had been promoted under the day-to-day law. Those who want to go further and investigate that practice will also see that the successor of State Council Clement, Øystein Djupedal, had to grant the same variety of applications that had been promoted, until the law was amended. We have, in one case earlier today, been concerned with how important someone thinks it is that we do not prejudge changes in the law, nor could Djupedal do so in his time. As a result, there is no basis for saying that previous government's entirely correct office can be used as a defence for the very little discretionary assessment made by the Council of State Solhjell in this case. In the course we also discovered that there were external enquiries to the department that were not listed, as they were supposed to be. But in all our liberalism, we're going to let it stand out in this context. I thank you again for giving us the opportunity to explain why our criticism is very well-founded, and why it is important that we have a committee of control and constitution, which means that we – no matter what we as individuals may feel about these rules – can at least have a system control going on, without too much party policy in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1630	The representatives from the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have, for their part, not initially seen the need to open up control cases on the occasion of this case. One of the reasons is that the previous government has left, and it is difficult to keep a former state council constitutionally accountable. Another factor that has contributed is that conversations between government members after a long and secure practice are not made public. As you can see, it is difficult to identify the role of former State Council Navarsete in this matter. The involvement of politicians in matters affecting their own constituency is natural and good. The problem arises when cases are of such a nature that they approach giving a personal gain to a decision. There has been early reason to believe — in view of, among other things. press releases – that you may have benefited from the fact that this case has an outcome with a much more expensive road solution than our health professionals have recommended. It is important how the Council of State acts on such an occasion, and in order to be sure of an unwarranted decision that cannot be questioned, one should have waited until after the change of government to take a decision in this matter. After all, it wasn't a new case. It had been estimated over a long period of 17,5 months, and it was for treatment until the new government was due. However, when the Solhell Council chose to deal with such a matter, which is of great economic importance, while obviously being of a political nature, the decision to take decisions at that time appears to be of little discretion. On the basis of this, the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left promote a protocol introduction. The Christian People's Party has now withdrawn from the protocol, and we have noticed that. The representative of Kolberg expressed that these parties did this to save themselves ashore. That's not right. This was a concrete assessment of the unfortunate it is to make such a far-reaching decision, despite other advice from our contemporaries. Then we think it's not a good idea to make the decision at that time, so close to a government change. We think that should be included in a protocol. I expect that protocol inputs have not been unusual in the past either. This is Stortinget familiar with. The whole of the protocol is at the heart of the matter. Otherwise, I will join most of the post of the representative Tetzschner, who has gone very thoroughly and well through the background of the case. So I don't want to spend any more time repeating it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1649	This is a matter that we from the Christian People's Party have really had no desire to become a matter in Stortinget, and as far as we understand, it has really not been wanted by any other parties either. Once it has become a matter, as a representative of the Christian People's Party, I have some considerations that I would like to share. First a few words about what might appear to be a little immodest on our part. We disagreed that questions were to be sent to the department about the matter, and thought that there was no real basis for asking these questions. We later participated in a protocol application that later turned out to give strong leadership in the matter. We later saw that the protocol delivery expressed views that just contributed to making this a matter, which we did not think was the basis for, and we therefore chose to withdraw from the protocol delivery. As far as I have understood, it has been a broad political consensus that government members should be careful to take important and controversial decisions during the period when it is clear that there will be a change of government, and a new government from another political constellation will accede. Then the question of this so-called Lærdal case was such an important and controversial decision that it should not have been taken. The type of assessment may be difficult and in this case there is a decision that can be discussed. The decision on the route for the route in Lærdal is not what one might call a currant case or a matter that was so urgent that it had to be decided by the previous government, but on the other hand the matter had been pending long before the department, and the decision would have gone further in time if a new state council had to intervene in the matter and then make a decision. Nor should we forget that in Lærdal and Sogn and Fjordane there was a broad political consensus on the matter. One wanted a solution as decided by the red-green government. However, the road service had objections because of costs. The trasé election adored the project with hundreds of millions of dollars. The then State Council of Navarsetes' contact with the Minister for Environmental Protection about the trasé elections is another aspect of the case that has been affected. She lives near the vitrases and known area well, and a council must of course be able to involve herself in matters relating to his or her home area, as long as they are not inhabile. Then each individual, in that kind of case, has to assess the power of its influence and be aware that someone can ask questions about it. In this case, the Christian People's Party has concluded that there is no reason to reproach the relevant state councils. We are still of the opinion that what happened around the communication and the red-green government's decision on a new trajectory for E16 through Lærdal should never be a matter in the control and constitution committee and therefore not here in the Chamber today. There should not be any factual basis for that. As we perceive the other parties, it is not the content of what has happened in this so-called Lærdal case that is the basis for us to deal with this as a matter today, but the reasons that emerged from the protocol for not opening the case, which was the reason why it was. Then it seems to me that we have a slightly special situation. No parties want this to become a matter, and it is no longer the realities of the Lärdal case that makes us deal with it today, but the reasons why not make this a matter. In the view of the Christian People's Party, it's not this kind of thing that we're going to spend time on, either in the control committee or in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1668	The case concerns the decision on a new line for E16 through Laerdal from the Red-Green Government. The start of the case was a report in NRK Sogn and Fjordane that, I must say, was bad journalism in relation to the facts. This led the representatives Tetzschner and Raja to follow up later, and many statements were made. The representative Tetzschner said, among other things: to the evening post on January 8, 2014 that one here had to see if it was friends services it was about. It was left with the impression that the Council of Ministers of Navarsete had not cleaned the bag and promoted self-interest via a telephone about a particular trajectory to their colleague, Solhjell, who made the decision on the matter. It's also this, as it appears in the discussion here now, that Navarsette has not had sufficient credibility as a Council of State. I have to say that I react very strongly to the representative Tetzschner, who is trying to weaken people's credibility – as in a legal case – when there is no basis for it in this case. We know that the press's search for councillor Navarsete, who was then party leader in the Center Party, was very extensive, and I expect them to go very thoroughly into the relationship between her residence and the road. What has emerged in the matter has caused all doubts to be removed, that there were no problems with the Council of State Navarsete did in terms of her own financial and personal affairs. The representative, Tetzschner, also equates the trasé choice with the decision to grant, and that is a positive error. The size allows funds for the project, and it is up to the Storting to adopt or reject government proposals for funding. The ratio is that there's nothing to say to it. As the rapporteur has also pointed out, this was a trajectory of which the elected bodies locally were strong supporters. The pavement wanted in this matter, as in other matters, a cheaper solution. There have also been a number of issues in Oslo in which the Vegvesen has sought cheaper solutions than what the representatives of the Right in Oslo have done. This is perfectly normal, because the political bodies are to make overall societal assessments of it. To claim that decisions have been made that impose extra costs on society, and that there is something special about this, I have to say that I think is reasonably incalculable. What is at the end of the matter is that after the exchange of letters there was an agreement in the Committee that no case should be promoted for the Stortinget. Then came the demand for protocol delivery from the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left that the government's decision was not very discretionary, and that it should still be based on the fact that things had been done both administratively and in the light of the current state councils that should not have been done. That is why the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV wanted to take the matter further, as we have now done, and we are pleased about it. What has happened then is that the Christian People's Party in the present position has withdrawn from the protocol supply, and I very much appreciate that. What has emerged in this case is that there were strong statements, many statements that were not comprehensive in their assessment. Both the National Council of Solhjell and the State Council of Navarsete have acted correctly in this matter, and there is nothing in their conduct that they can be charged for.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1681	I will first refer you to the representative Helge Thorheim's speech and I will join it in its entirety. We save a lot of time when I don't repeat the conditions he mentioned. I also agree with large parts – perhaps most of them – of what Tetzschner said here in the pulpit, but not the talk of Navarsete. I don't think we should or should assign her or others something that is not covered for. I had actually signed because I needed to say something to the representative Martin Kolberg's introduction. I thought it would not be necessary to say anything in addition to what the other parties have said, which I mainly agree with in this matter, that is, the Right and Advance Party. At some point we also agreed with the Christian People's Party, but I realize that they are no longer in the protocol. Based on the speech given by the chairman of the committee, it was impossible to sign up to respond to parts of it. But I will not return – to save the day for extra speaking time. I would like to start by saying that the representative Martin Kolberg is wrong. This has not been about making cheap political points, nor about making points at all. The matter has to be checked to see if everything has been done correctly. I think that's the committee's task. It is true that the media first mentioned the matter. But I think it is quite natural to follow up the matter further. I note that the representative of Kolberg has a different view of this. But he has to endure the fact that others have a diverging vision. The representative of Kolberg may feel that nothing should be done at all. I disagree with him. In this case, we are others, who have a different view from that of Mr Kolberg, a majority in this Chamber. So the representative Kolberg has the majority against him in terms of what he has done here. The chairperson of the Committee has used strong words. Perhaps in the absence of a majority in his view, the representative has needed this, also to demonstrate it with his body language, as he himself formulated it. The representative Kolberg says this is a political game. In some people’s world, it may be – perhaps especially for those who are used to gambling themselves. For me, this has to do with checking the conditions. That's what I've thought the committee should do – check whether everything's done right, check it out. Then it has been natural to follow the case and ask some questions about this. Discussion of a matter and, where appropriate, criticising named persons in the public domain is clearly a matter of freedom of expression. I think it is a bit problematic, serious and surprising that in this way the chairman of the committee might indirectly contribute to putting a damper on the public debate. He almost says: If you are debating and criticising – you only have to do it if it is to end in an attitude. I don't think that's what he means, but that's how it might sound. Then you can't take this seriously. As far as political games are concerned – if anyone is involved in political games, I think there are more people who can imagine who in the committee is particularly good at political games. I respond very poorly to threat-like warnings. – If you do not draw the protocol input, it becomes full roll and hard, it must be separate, etc. It is the committee chairman's privilege to use harsh words and let it go hard on its own. The chairman of the committee has done the same. However, I am equally opposed to the fact that it was right to ask questions as a result of the media's provision of information, and the delivery of the protocol is stated. In addition to this, I refer to the position as a whole, and I do not need to say anything in addition to this in this debate, although it is now going to hail arguments back and forth. I also agree with the guidelines given by the SMK to exercise caution in taking final decisions on important and controversial issues. Here the representatives of the Committee representing the majority of the population in this Chamber believe that the decision of the then State Council, Solhjell, was of little discretion.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1700	This matter should not have been a matter for Stortinget today. I understand that someone can respond to newspaper headlines. Some of us may have reacted sharply to some suggestions, but we have not checked it thoroughly enough. The fact that, when you have asked questions and received clear answers that no constitutional errors have been committed – because that is what we are talking about – you go on with a protocol application, where the criticism is to be borne in mind, is what has been the problem with this matter. That criticism has not been promoted as a proposal in this matter. The whole committee then says that this should be annexed to the protocol – that is, that this is not a matter, because there is nothing to be reproached. There can be great political disagreement about things. In this case, there was a unanimous local government and a unanimous assembly that shared the views of the government after a long procedure. One of the curious parts of this case was that for a while they also questioned whether state councils could call each other. I expect government councils in the hall today can confirm that you can, you can, you can and you should. It was just supposed to be missing. When questions were asked about such things in the control committee, a bell should have been ringing that one was quite far from the task of the control committee. After all, a government will be completely paralysed if it is not possible for state councils to call each other and continuously resolve issues that are being dealt with. Nor is it a controversial matter to decide a case in favour of local democracy and regional democracy, as they will. That there are some parties that may disagree at national level is a completely different matter. It is a political issue that can be put forward in a political debate and to the extent that it is dealt with in the Grand Duchy. If it were the case that the government had wanted to reverse this decision, they could have done it, or the representative Abid Q. Raja could have made a proposal to reverse this decision, if that's what he thinks. He's free – it's all up to him. The problem with this case is that there is criticism of the formal, constitutional procedure for which there is no basis. It should have been unfair for the government parties and the Left, and they should have pulled this protocol and said that there was reason to investigate, but when we were told what it was, it turned out that this was within the rules – political disagreement, yes. I read a chronicle in today's business as this matter was hottest in the media. The good commentator Alstadheim, who has a good pen, wrote that if the representative Tetzschner was interested in hearing how an outgoing government should not behave, he could turn to bed. When the Bondevik government came to an end, it decided a very controversial political case, which had been one of the main issues of the previous major election campaign. All around the country, we had discussed this. In every municipality and every county, we discussed, and there was a new majority established that disagreed completely with the decisions that were taken. We took over and had to sort it out. But we didn't say that it was a violation of constitutional order, or that the government that put it was not allowed to do it – because they did. We disagreed completely, but they were allowed to do so, so it was not possible to take them for formal reasons, and there was no need to do so either. I'm surprised that you can't separate your role as controller of the constitutional situation, and the role of political opponents, where you have political disagreements and try to form a majority for what you see, in different cases. That's two completely different things. That is why the debates in these matters in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs are also quite different from the other debates, because it is about deciding political disagreements. This is about whether or not the rules have been followed. I look forward to Sanner's taking the floor and can confirm that there is no basis for constitutional criticism, that the legislation underpinning the previous government is the same legislation that this government follows, and that the government is not working on plans to change the legislation in such a way that a practice in line with the current legislation – as this matter is about – would be constitutionally wrong. It is important to do so, because otherwise one might question the fact that the control committee in Stortinget might have a very demanding task in the future to control the government at a level that is at least not of interest to the SV. We are interested in discussing politics with a government that we deeply disagree with in many things. But that's what we're going to do open, and not on a formal basis where there's no basis for it. I think that this government has the intention to behave as formally as possible, say if I have to admit that both the matter we discussed instead and the snowmobile case makes it possible to start tricking. But I expect you to deal with the rules of the game. To change the rules, we can discuss it and have opinions on it, but it's not about this matter. This matter is about whether or not you have followed the rules of the game. You have, and I expect the Council of State to confirm it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1717	First, I would like to stress that I fully support Martin Kolberg's remarks, and I also share his understanding of the reality of this matter. Let me be quite clear: in this case, as far as it has been achieved, it has not been a breach of administrative practices or other legislation laid down by the Stortinget. But the matter raises a number of questions that I expect the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left to answer properly. Firstly, Solhjell and Navarsete have been criticized for not listening adequately to the State Road Service and County Council; on the contrary, they have chosen to listen to the local government and county council. It rhymes very badly with what we hear from the government parties about having confidence in local democracy. The two state councils should be praised for taking the local and state policies seriously. Secondly, we expect growth representatives to work for the counties we come from. It is often about transport projects, and often about entirely concrete road projects. My question is whether the position of the Right Party in this case means that they will introduce a new principle that if you live near the E6 or E18, you do not have the right to work in order to repair those road projects – or to introduce middle parties, or, for that matter, to remove tolls on roads you yourself live nearby, or to use them daily. Thirdly, the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left sent a letter to the Department, and the Ministry replied that there was nothing unregulated about this matter. It is clear that these parties want to change practice and regulation, so that the government will not take decisions between the election day and the day the government resigns. Then I have to ask: what does the Council of State and the Government intend to do to change this practice? Again, there is reason to recall that Kristin Clemet accepted many private schools in the post-election period in 2005 before the new government joined. This was strongly criticised politically by us, the Workers' Party and other parties, but the criticism that was put forward, the room never accuses of breaches of rules or administrative practices. But on the basis of the strong criticism expressed by the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, I assume that the Prime Minister and the Government will come back to the Stortinge with a proposal to change today's practice. If they don't, the criticisms of these parties appear as empty words and without content, and the parties as without ability and will for concrete follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1731	One of the important tasks of the Control and Constitutional Committee is to control and ensure that the government complies with the laws, administrative procedures and decisions of the Grand Duchy. The majority in the committee believe that neither former State Council Liv Signe Navarsete nor former State Council Board Vegar Solhjell has broken any law or decision. But the reason why the case was opened is that the Right, Left and Advance Party produce a protocol with criticism, at the same time as they said they didn't want to open up a case. They wanted to criticise the former state councils only through a protocol administration, without the Storting or others being allowed to debate it – they would not actually be able to deal with it. It is a parliamentary practice that I have not witnessed before. The characteristics of Navarsete they present in the media speak for themselves. They were talking about veneservices and instability, they were wondering if telephone calls between state councils were journalized, and they had cheap claims, for example. in the Evening Post. But today they've taken away all the criticism they're making in the media, he hasn't come into either the protocol administration or the cases here today. There was also no need to criticise – and I wonder if the current government has introduced logging telephone calls between state councils. What I think is important here is that there is a cohesive municipal government in Lærdal and a cohesive state, where all the political parties are represented, which is in favour of the decision as it was. The colleagues from the representatives Tetzschner and Raja wanted the decision that was actually taken. The two representatives did not mention that. In fact, they have not mentioned, and not even thought, that this was a cross-political decision – or what the municipal self-government has to say, or the rural Lärdal, for which the local politicians are properly working. The road service had an objection because of costs. Then went to the Ministry of the Environment as the right department. Me means things there were treated correctly. It's a decision in a very uncontroversial case. I underline that, because that's what it says: one should not take, or one should be careful with, decisions in controversial matters. But a matter of which there is full political agreement, I would call uncontroversial. And the matter was settled there before the government of Stoltenberg was a business ministry. A telephone call between state councils was signed, which is common. Then the case came in the NRK, and Raja and Tetzschner threw themselves on. They mentioned the former councillor Navarsete as if she had done something wrong just by taking a phone call to a colleague. They were to send letters from the committee asking if the conversation had been logged. Only then did they go high in the press. Representative Tetzschner, member of the Committee of the Right-wing Affairs Committee, spoke about instability and mishandling. They're lifting cases into the Control and Constitutional Committee. Then they closed the cases, as they added to the protocol, which the Storting would not be able to deal with. I believe that this matter must be a violation of all parliamentary practices and practices. When we see the outcome of it, I think that perhaps the need for attention is more important for some of the members of the new control and constitution committee than a proper procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1746	I will begin by refuting the criticism from the representative Tetzschner that I as the case rapporteur have not brought the matter before me. I believe that I said very clearly what the matter was about. The debate afterwards is very marked by the fact that we are discussing what is important in the matter. So I just want to refute it. So I just want to say that there are several people here who say that this shouldn't be for treatment. That's what I've been saying from the first moment. We have from the first moment thought that it was not necessary to send a letter to the Council of State asking about what was being asked – because that was not the basis for doing so. When we received an answer – first from the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Renewal, but then confirmed by the Council of State Sanner – we had received the answers we needed, and the matter could have been stopped again. Then the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left in the Committee said that they did not think it was a matter, but they wanted to add a protocol that nevertheless brought the criticism. And then it becomes the case. This is the correct presentation of the course of the case. When the representative of the Progress Party, Helge Thorheim, goes up to the pulpit and says that this should not be a matter, he must address the criticism to himself, not to anyone else – because he has participated in this, done so and said so. I'm wondering how to follow up as chairman of the committee. I believe that, after this debate, we must send a letter to the Presidency and clarify whether, according to the Rules of Procedure, a practice can be introduced which says that criticism of protocol inputs can be made – without it being discussed in the Chamber. I've never experienced it before. I do not think it is a good practice that a protocol entry into a committee protocol should contain a hidden criticism of named persons. It's not good for the Storting. It's not good for the government. It's not good for them. That is why I believe that this principle needs to be clarified. I noticed that the representative Tetzschner, who was the initiator of this in the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, did not affect this principle with a word in his intervention. He has the chance to come back to it later, whether he thinks this is a practice that should be introduced. I don't mean it, and I don't think the Stortinge mean it either. I see that the Council of State has signed up. That's good. Then we can clarify the government's view of this. What issues does Sanner face – in my opinion – when he is going to the pulpit of Storting? Well, he's facing the fact that he should confirm the contents of his letter to the committee. There is not a single critical word about what happened – of course not. There has been no basis for this, even with regard to the allegation of procedural errors, which was the starting point of the letter sent by the Committee to the Council of State, for example. whether they were allowed to call each other, etc. – which was very special, to say it carefully – but also whether there was a breach of the rules. The rules are just referenced. It is, of course, linked to the fact that it is up to the individual government to assess what is right and not correct. It's done nicely. The Council of State does not say in its letter that it is not. So it will be very exciting to hear what he is now saying about this matter. I will not comment any further until I have heard what the Council of State says. But it is quite obvious that if he stands behind the criticism that has come from the three, which constitutes a majority in the Storting, I assume that the government will without delay come back to the Storing and say how they will act in this context. Finally, just a more specific comment – I will come back to other matters that have been raised in the discussion in later articles. I want to make a very special mark against Tetzschner's suggestion of former councillor Navarsete – that it was almost necessary to do this exercise, referring to other matters. Had it been said outside this hall, it would have been absolutely at the limit of an injury. Tetzschner knows that well, who is a well-trained lawyer. I would like to hear what he says about this in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1765	I have read both the position and followed the debate with great interest. With regard to the internal debate between the members of the Committee on the workings of the Committee, I have no intention of commenting on it. However, in general – without commenting on this matter in particular – I believe that this is an important debate. It is important to have both an informed and a nuanced debate on the way the government works and on the transition from one government to another. With regard to the key issue here: what a government can/should do in the transition between a outgoing and an incoming government, it is defined in the Guidelines on the Council of State from the Prime Minister's office. It says: ‘Many may argue that in such a situation the government should exercise caution in taking final decisions in important and controversial matters.’ I don't see it as my task to decide on the discretion of a outgoing government or of a outgoing state council – or to have views on the criticisms expressed in the Swedish Parliament's Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. I can of course confirm the contents of the letter that was sent from my department, which should have been sent from me at first. There was no criticism, but it wasn't our job to do it either. Our task was to get the actual relationships, as far as it could be. So it's up to the Biggest and Biggest Control and Constitutional Committee to make an assessment. I do not see it as my task as the subsequent Council of State to have views on the criticism that has been made. I cannot – and I would like to stress – have insight into internal proceedings in the previous government. That's why it's not possible for me to go into this matter in addition to the facts that we've informed the Stortingen's Control and Constitutional Committee. In terms of guidelines on the Council of State, we don't have any plans to change them. My assessment is that there are good guidelines that any government and government council must assess – and deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1785	The President is very pleased that the Council of States of Sanner clearly states that letters from the Ministry of Great Britain Committees are to be signed by the Council of State. Not even the State Secretary shall sign a letter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1788	The E16 elections in Lærdal had a unanimous municipal government and a unanimous coup d'état behind them, and they pointed to the same trajectory elections. There was a great deal of local political consensus about it. I listened to the post of the representative Tetzschner earlier in the debate, where he dropped out some claims to keep it hanging a light of suspicion over the former councillor Navarsete. He said in his post that the husband of Navarsete had registered himself in the local council's handling of the matter. The representative, Tetzschner, knows very well, I suppose, that this line was not part of that treatment, because it was laid off. That's why there was no longer any question of instability. Nevertheless, the representative Tetzschner chooses to say so, precisely because this is a partisan game. There are few who know the matter as well as he, as we who are sitting in the hall here, and by making the kind of claims, the suspicion should still be attached. I think it's an unworthy game, and I think it's an unwise way of acting. This whole matter began with a desire to swear the Council of Ministers of Navarsete and risk her integrity, and it was claimed indirectly and directly that she did this to earn herself. But when I read the vote to prepare for this debate, there was nothing about it. And why? Well, it's like I read in Asbjørnsen and Moe to my children: When the troll comes into the light, it cracks. There was nothing to criticize the Council of Navarsete for, but it was a strong wish of the representative Tetzschner to swear Liv Signe Navarsete as the head of the Center Party. We also noticed that in today's posts, where the representative is unable to push forward one example after another that he thinks is wrong, and shed the light of suspicion. I don't think we should be running politics that way. There are two suggestions it is wonderful to read later, where both the representative Tetzschner and the representative Raja criticise that there has been telephone contact between two government councils in a government. Then I can confess: I called Navarsete a lot once, I called Arnstad State Council about trasé elections, I called the State Council Board Vegar Solhjell about trasé elections through Åkersvika, I called the State Councils Faremo and Stroem-Erichsen that I wanted some defense jobs for my home country. I was very active calling and talking to get routes, roads, electrification and jobs to Hedmark. If they are to resort to such a practice and such a low level, it is impossible to pursue policies. It is an advantage that we have active state councils for our counties, and I also hope that Jan Tore Sanner calls his colleagues and fights Akershus’ case in certain contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1799	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. It includes the last speaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1802	I am amazed that we have this debate. So the citizens have insisted on promoting a criticism that is not justified, in a way that appears unorthodox, to say the least. It is obvious that the former councils of Navarsete and Solhjell have not violated any laws or decisions of the Stortinget, nor have they acted contrary to the good administration of a dwindling government. Good governance requires a government not to decide whether there is a political dispute and on which the recent elections may have an impact. The E16 elections through Lärdal were not a politically controversial matter. The government joined an assessment of the unanimity of both the local government in Lærdal and the county council in Sogn and Fjordane. This is interesting to see in the sharp contrast of the Bondevik II government, which made several controversial decisions in the autumn of 2005. One example was the expansion of the Hatteberg watercourse in my state, an obvious and, I would say, effective tripping wire for the invading red-green government. The most serious, however, was the approval of private schools by the then Minister of Education, just after a choice where private schools had been a major theme, where the parties who wanted the approval that was given had suffered a thunderous defeat. When I take the floor on this matter, it is in order to underline the criticism of the Right, the Progress Party and the Left's action in the control committee in this matter. It tastes of games and double standards, and in my opinion it undermines respect for the incredibly important task of the control committee. It is not the task of the Storting to follow state councils for the sake of party politics, but to check when there really is a need for control. That problem is weakened when you act in the way that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left do here. It's also interesting that those parts looked at them until they lowered the threshold of what's going to happen to criticise a government council. It's going to be very interesting to see if the right-hand side will act at the same low threshold for its own government. Something tells me it's not going to happen. As a result, the test for what is an objective and good way to carry out the tasks of members of the control committee has been applied.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1811	I had initially not intended to take the floor in this matter here, but I feel the need to respond to some claims from the representatives Pedersen and Eldegard, whom I am a little uncertain about having understood what this matter is about. We do not decide whether the trasé elections in Lærdal were right or wrong. We also do not decide whether the telephone contact between Navarsete and Solhjell was right or wrong. What we're considering is about the government as a college, and the government council in particular, Solhjell, has broken the government's internal regulations. It reads as follows: «Sometimes it will be clear that a government will seek relief before this has been formally notified to the King and he has asked the government to continue as a business ministry. This will be the case from the time when the Prime Minister has clearly declared that he or she will submit the government's removal request. Much can be said to suggest that in such a situation the government should exercise caution in taking final decisions in important and controversial matters.» It is also clear that the Prime Minister's office has reminded the departments of these guidelines both before and after the elections. As you know, it is also clear that Stoltenberg unequivocally announced the government's departure on the election night. The argumentation of the red-green lots is a reference to local consensus. I quote from the comments: ‘These members point out that the local government of Lærdal and the county council of Sogn and Fjordane unanimously agreed to the option that the government of Stoltenberg would set up. This documents that the former Council of State of Navarsete's commitment and the decision of the then Council of State of Solhjell were well-founded democratically, and had cross-political support in that municipality and it ruled it over. The matter was therefore not politically controversial; it was contrary to broad political agreement on it.' Then local consensus has become the most important argument that a case is not controversial. It's very interesting, all the time the county of my home state, Hordaland, hundreds of times have stopped things there's been local consensus about in Bergen City Government, in Hordaland County and in other municipal governments around the Hordaland. I think it's good that the red-green politicians take that turn, but it's a little late. This is a case where the trasé choice costs 800 million. kr. Is that not important? It has a negative socio-economic gain, and then it's not controversial? The majority in this hall believe that it is controversial, and we believe that it was little discretionary by the Council of State of Solhjell.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1830	The Central Party does not criticise the Right, the Advance Party and the Left for asking questions from the Control Committee. We disagreed with the need to ask questions, but we did not criticize when it was done. We thought that asking questions was unnecessary, because we knew the matter, and it turned out that it was. Our criticism is that there should still be an impression of personal financial gain for the Council of State of Navarsete. The representative Vedum explained the very pointed question of viability, and I would ask the representative Tetzschner to withdraw his statements on the instability of the Council of Ministers of Navarsetes in this matter. The central party criticises criticism of individual councils through protocol administration, which should not be made visible to the Storting through debate in the Chamber – that is why we have the matter to deal with now. Either there is a basis for action in the monitoring committee after the Stortinget Rules of Procedure and related deliberations, or it is not. Today's debate is to put an end to protocol entries, the aim of which is to raise doubts and weaken the credibility of state councils. Therefore, the proposal of the representative of Kolberg to send a letter to the Presidentship of the Stortinge to clarify the future practice of protocol inputs has the full support of the Centre Party. At the end: Council of State Sanner held a pointed, short article. He would not decide on the judgement of the decision that the previous government made after it became clear that it had to go off. I fully agree – what we are talking about is a good idea. It's practiced a judgement, and I understand that the current government, if it comes in a similar situation, will also exercise a judgement on such issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1841	To the last: Of course, there are discretionary rules, but it's not that because you've practiced a trick, it's raised above criticism. It is even so that it is quite striking to say that the decision that was taken was very insensitive. That is what we are discussing. When it comes to the question of instability, I have not stated whether the Navarsette or her husband were inhabile at that time. That's not what I said in my first post. I said that one of the reasons we took the media's mention of this seriously was that they, as they know, earlier in the phase, where a parallel assessment was made of three possibilities, which landowners had submitted to themselves inhabile. It was just to let you know what the subject is. Of course, it's not that we drew any preliminary conclusions about it. That is why we have not addressed this later in the setting. There are guidelines within the government, where the Councils of State are required to: ‘ exercise caution in taking final decisions in important and controversial matters’. ‘Important’ separately and ‘controversial’ separately. They are not required to be both important and controversial. So one can show that a decision finds reverberation somewhere, of course, it does not detract from the character of being important. You have to ask back: where is the limit of what's important? Is it a big deal when it's 800 million? Do you really want to delete this item? - Obviously it's not. Is it 1 billion? kr which is the limit? For those who had to be in doubt, it must have been very important given the contact pattern within the government just before being persuaded to make the decision that he had otherwise had a year and a half to make a decision. Of course, in normal circumstances, it would not be wrong to make such a decision with negative social benefits and 400 million. DKK in extra costs for taxpayers. There are many such decisions, but there should not be any movers in the Council's office. That's what's the basic theme here. So I just want to end by saying that a member of the control committee finds comfort in the fact that we are now attaching this protocol, and that the comments are therefore not to be taken into account. I think it is important that a member of the control committee is fully informed that when we attach a document protocol, it does not mean that the comments have been deleted. They're working. That's how we work with groceries. They shall be annexed, in their form, to the Protocol, but the majority of the observations shall lead to the further handling of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1859	I listened very well to the contributions of the Council of State, Jan Tore Sanner. I have to say it's an post I'm very pleased with. He confirms the contents of the letter, where it is natural, of course, as he also himself says, that it is not up to him to judge. But he did not say that he thought this was outside what is normal practice. It was good that he didn't say that, because we fully agree that the rules we have are good. The working party for its part has had no need to criticise these rules. Our governments have followed them in the usual way, and we assume that future governments will be able to follow them – without us wanting to perform this as a breach of administration and little discretion. That's what's going on. That is what does not have to be hanging – that is not what has happened in this case. That is why I now believe that this can end well, in the sense that the Council of State Sanner has cleared up this. He says what is saying, both directly and indirectly, is that the rules that lie there are okay, and it's up to the individual government to follow them in a discretionary and correct way. That's what State Council Solhell has done. And all the criticisms against Navarsete are now completely gone. Those who have carried this out in the staging room should take it inwards – simply. That's what's left of it. So I'd just like to say at the end mention the state road system's appeal and treatment of matters. We've checked some relationships, and it might sound a little special, but the most relevant thing to compare with is the last government change, i.e. after the Bondevik government. Then this was with fresh oils very special. At that time, the former State Council took Clement's enforcement decisions in violation of the Directorate. The directorate had many objections, but she decided it against these. You can politically criticize that, but we've never criticized it administratively. I don't think it was wrong either, that she did it that way. She was not going to do that politically, nor was she going to do it administratively. It's this thing that's the nerve of the whole question. An attempt is being made to make this a platform for a political attack on two former state councils, and only as a protocol entry in the committee. The last thing we have to deal with is the presidency, whether it's in line with the Rules of Procedure, so that's exactly what we're going to get back to. I'm telling the Storting now that I'm going to make sure we do. But the second thing I think is that we have now killed, as the matter is now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1869	I'm going to stick to what the committee's chairman said now. We have to go into this way of dealing with things and figure out if this is an acceptable way. The Socialist Left Party believes that it is not. This is basically a political criticism, and the way it has been discussed has been a purely political desire to swear to outgoing states councils. It also shows the debate here today, where you can't avoid or can't afford not to use the barrister's method of saying things to let it hang in the air that there was some kind of snooping going on. That's not it. It was clean, it was proper. You also talk about that there was a special contact pattern in the government. I don't know where you have such views from. I expect government councils to have contact with each other every day – it should be missing! That's their job. They must have. If that's special, I'll ask to have it documented that it's different now. That sometimes it happens that one might want to span political bone hooks between the removal boxes when governments switch, we've seen examples of. But we haven't dragged it into the Enlargement's Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs to say that it's constitutionally wrong. The representative Tetzschner, obviously with an address for me, says that what is stated in the comments is important. That is what the proposal says, which is the Storting's views on this matter. It shall be annexed to the minutes. It should have been attached to the Minutes without comment also in the Committee. The whole reason is that the criticism you then tried to make in a protocol, which was not to be discussed, you don't have the courage to write on a paper and present here in the Chamber today to vote over. It is known that it is wrong, and now the Council of State has also confirmed that it is wrong. Political disagreement may exist, but constitutionally, no mistakes have been made. That is why, of course, one cannot present such a proposal today to get it voted on, because it would not be possible. The representative Tetzschner also knows that the right could not agree. He knows very well that it could not have been accepted at all. Therefore, I would have liked the claims made by those who have been up here and tried to doubt the stability and behaviour of the former statesmen – given that in some way there is something suspicious about them – to have been known as dead and powerless. The fact that we disagree politically with what has happened is completely acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1884	I feel the need to take the floor on this matter as a representative of Sogn and Fjordane. It's a strange debate you're witnessing. One has a case that has been followed. Administrative practices are not broken. Inactivation failed. It is listened to by the local government and the county council of its co-consultants' decision on how a wanted a trasé election, and then it will end up as a big debate in Stortinget. It is not advisable to introduce a principle that it would be difficult to engage in matters of your own municipality. We're all from a municipality, and we all have an engagement based on that, but we're going to follow the rules, and it's done in this case. So I wonder a little bit about the moment being pulled in, around the county. You have to countersign the county to try to stop a case. This is a matter on which one has been a few locally. There is clear advice from the county to the department. That is the correct procedure. Saka had come to the council's table, and decision could be taken. It is very serious to try to leave it hanging suspicions at the former government councils of Liv Signe Navarsete and Band Vegar Solhell without there being any basis for it. It's very difficult to protect yourself from such suspicions. Therefore, it is quite important that one has this debate in the United Kingdom today and is determined once and for all that the two former state councils are independent. State Council Sanner says this is not out of general practice. They are acknowledgment, and then the cause may be put to death.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1897	The representative Michael Tetzschner has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1900	At the moment, I have to say that the theme is still what we have brought forward in the protocol delivery, namely whether there was caution in making final decisions in important and controversial matters after notification that the government would go off. We believe that this caution was not exercised. However, when one insists that, ioda, one was within – the correctly discretionary – the guidelines within the government, we believe that it is a mispractice and misapprehension. That is what is contained in the wording ‘indiscriminate decision’. The case does not apply to everything else, for example. if any were pleased with the decision. As a result, the reference made by the Council of State is quite correct, namely that this is the Grand Duchy's assessment of the previous government's office, which the current one obviously has no idea of.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1909	What's so wonderful about hearing Tetzschner is the gift of fright that comes from the Osloben. I followed this matter very closely, and how did this matter start? It started around the council of Navarsete and her role. Then Tetzschner understood that there was no hold in running that line, and through the treatment he had to find a new way and a new kid to save his own honor. But the best way to save his own honor is sometimes to say, I was wrong; the way I behaved here was unwise; I wasn't right in my analysis. Then you can go on. But instead of choosing the wise path, there's a new attack that's being defended. But that's not the best defense. I believe that the kind of behaviour we have seen in this matter builds confidence in politicians and Tetzschner in particular. There will be only games and a goal that there will be suspicions against former state councils, even if there is no basis for them. I find it regrettable, but it affects Tetzschner much harder than anyone else.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1920	I sat and hoped that I would not go up again, but when Tetzschner says what he says, we will again, and it will continue until it ends, because it is not such that they will get the last word in this matter here. In this case, we are right – namely! It would be okay if Tetzschner just went up to this pulpit and said, well, well, we get to stop what's now. I doubt if that happens. The fact that the behaviour we see here, and the Council of State, is also compromising, is no doubt, because what Tetzschner says, is contrary to what the Council of State said from the pulpit. He said that it is the government's own responsibility to exercise that discretion, and no one else has criticized such discretion. That is why it is essential that we establish – before we close this debate – that what has been done is within the rules, that is according to good administrative practice, that there has been no breach of any legislation, and that has been an entirely ordinary handling of an appeal. Then it has been made a political matter which has subsequently been tried hidden through protocol administration. It's not acceptable, we can't have it like this, and I'm very clear that I agree with Councillor Sanner, and I very much disagree with what Michael Tetzschner is saying here.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1925	The president pointed out that the representative Michael Tetzschner has no more speaking time. So if the Right is going to answer this, someone else has to do it. – It doesn't look like this. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1943	I would first like to thank you for the opportunity to take this debate, and I am very happy that I got it done now before the summer vacation. Even though the President referred to the matter, I would still like to start by repeating it, because I think it is very important to point out what the matter is about. It is quite right that most people live well in Norway today, but this does not apply to everyone. 150 000 persons are considered to be disadvantaged in the housing market. Of these, about 6,200 are missing a fixed place to live. Those who are not themselves able to find a dwelling and stay must get the help they need. There is no doubt that in a country like Norway, everyone will have a place to live, and with the right help they can get it. Too many people experience being thrown out of their homes because they do not have enough knowledge of their rights and duties. It is also a challenge for children’s families and young people to live in poor housing settings. The last thing I did now is very important also considering the prevention work we're talking about in the field of juvenile delinquency, or young people who don't necessarily become criminals, but who fall outside the community. Several sectors and levels of government have a responsibility in housing policy, but there has been a long-term failure of cooperation, and users have been affected. There are few policy areas that are as central to our lives as housing policy. Although housing policies over the past few days and weeks have been about simplification, planning and building laws and the technical components, this is also an important part of housing policy and welfare. We spend more of our leisure time inside our houses than anywhere else. A dwelling is more than the place where we live, it is also our home. That's where we're supposed to be safest. Owning your own home is a proud Norwegian tradition – four out of five own owner-occupiers. This allows more people to feel a connection to society and to share in the development of wealth. If we don't build more dwellings, we're at risk of this tradition disappearing. If families and individuals do not have a place to live, much of what they perceive as well-being and security disappears. Since 2010, according to the Central Bureau of Statistics, housing prices have risen by over 20 pst. on a national basis. It's a sign it's not being built enough. One of the major challenges that this poses is that it is even more difficult for young and disadvantaged people to enter today’s housing market. That's why it's important to make sure that everyone has a place to live, that there are enough homes built, and that most people can afford to live in these homes. To the right, it is a priority political objective that adequate housing is built, and that as much as possible has the possibility of owning their own housing. Living in a self-contained dwelling creates greater security in everyday life and predictability. At the same time, we know that for many people the struggle is not primarily about entering the owner’s market – it’s hard enough to get into the rental market. Then you have the group that once they get a place to live, struggles to live, and it's also a challenge. The groups are many, I could still – people with disabilities, people with low incomes, drug users who have ended up outside, or recently released prisoners, for that matter – who are going back to society. Another large group that worries me especially, they are a little over 5,000 refugees who have been accommodated, but who are still not resident. It's the legacy of the red-green government. I am pleased that the new government has speeded up its establishment, but here it is important to maintain the pressure. Housing work is the basis of a society with opportunities for all. Without a good place to live, it will be difficult to deal with other challenges in life, so the government needs to provide a good strategy for its work in the future. Good housing for children and families with children is particularly important both to ensure the quality of life now and to ensure the future of these children. A good home makes it possible with kindergarten, school, friends, onion football and leisure activities. It makes it possible to participate in this. This is also the basis for a safe growth. We know that one of the most important things we can do about prevention for children and young people is to create safe growth conditions. First of all, we need to ensure that enough housing is built, as I mentioned, and that the threshold to enter the housing market is lowered. Homelessness, especially among families with children and young people, needs to be prevented and reduced. We need to ensure good quality rental homes and a safe living environment for families with children. Temporary housing offers should only be used exceptionally by families with children and young people, and such stays should not be longer than is strictly necessary. The area is extensive, and the work ahead of us is large. I'll point out some of the main challenges: There is no doubt that this field is large and needs to be solved by several departments, directorates and agencies. How will the government coordinate this work in the future? People meet a lot of bureaucracy, the process is often complex, and people end up being throwing balls. We see that the problems are greatest in the big cities, which is natural because of population and population growth. What special measures can be taken against the big cities? That's a question we can ask ourselves. We all agree that the House Bank has an important coordinating role. It should also have in the future. But how does the government ensure that the House Bank is now synchronised and equipped to meet today's and tomorrow's challenges? We know that the government made a very clear regulation to the House Bank, which is to ensure that we do not now get a new harvest, where the municipalities are again running out of initial loans long before the year is over. It's joyous, and it's important. And is everything necessarily to be solved by the state? This can be done as a national effort by involving other actors, such as drug users. volunteering? And how do we make sure not to pass on the user? It's also about people's self-image, they have to be allowed to be on the journey it's going from not having a place to stay to get a home. How can we involve them in a better way? I want to invite through this interpellation to a dialogue and a good deal for the most disadvantaged in the Norwegian housing market. I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e1977	I would first of all like to thank the interpellant for asking this important question and thus helping to raise an important issue. Most of us live well, but too many people struggle to get a safe home. Without housing, it is difficult to move on, whether it is about education or work, and an unsafe living environment creates an uncertain framework around the growth of children. Therefore, housing-social work is a high priority area for government, and the work is part of our field of activity on a stronger social security network. In March, five government councils presented a national strategy for housing-social work – Housing for well-being. National strategy for housing social work [[2014-2020]] The aim is to bring together and target efforts towards disadvantaged people in the housing market. The strategy provides an overview of a complex policy area where responsibilities and tasks are shared between different sectors and levels of administration. The strategy clarifies responsibilities, tasks and expectations in the social housing work. The strategy is a long-term one and has to go to 2020. Those struggling in the housing market shall meet with respect and receive the necessary assistance. It is our responsibility to coordinate and coordinate the state efforts to build up under the local authorities' work in the social housing sector. As the interpellant refers to, people live most well in Norway today. The standard of living just gets better and better. Still, there's someone outside. The housing committee suggested that it was approx. 150000 disadvantaged on the housing market. The analysis shows that close to 60 pst. of the disadvantaged dwellings, compared to 18 pst. in the rest of the population. The proportion of people with disabilities is highest in Oslo. Immigrants are overrepresented among the disadvantaged in the housing market. A higher proportion of the disadvantaged have an unstable link to the labour market. The sample estimated that at the lower edge of 25 pst. of the disadvantaged households are families with children. While most higher-income households own their own dwelling, the proportion of owners with the lowest income is only 32 pst. For many, renting a dwelling may be the best option, but some households have problems getting a suitable rental dwelling. Few rental homes, low variation in the housing supply and discrimination between applicants for housing are among the challenges on the housing market. A 2012 survey shows that approx. 6,250 were homeless. The number is more or less unchanged from the 2008 mapping. However, the number of homeless children has increased, from 400 to 679. A little over half of the homeless depend on drugs, and two out of five have mental health challenges. Two out of five homeless people are registered in one of the four largest cities. On 1 January 2013, 3,829 refugees were accepted and awaited residence. By 31 March 2014, the figure was increased to 5,549. Lack of suitable housing is one of the reasons why municipalities cannot accept more refugees. I'm drawing these figures out because they show the complexity of the challenges we're facing, and the importance of implementing the strategy that we've now agreed on. There is no doubt that having a home — a home — creates security and a better opportunity to take education, work, set up a family and have a social life. Housing is often the prerequisite for participation in the other arenas of society. Without a good place to live, other challenges in life will be reinforced and go beyond the quality of life. Housing work is about everyone having the opportunity to master their everyday life – having a good housing and a manageable housing economy and being part of a community environment. No one shall be required to earn or qualify for assistance. Everyone has to live, and with the right help, everyone can live. The strategy has set three overall national targets for housing social work in the coming years. These are: Everyone should have a good place to live. All those in need of services shall be assisted in mastering the housing situation. Public efforts shall be comprehensive and effective. We strengthen efforts towards families with children and young people who do not live well. This is important for the children here and now and to prevent poor living conditions from inheriting. We have set out the following three concrete performance objectives in the strategy: Renting housing for families with children shall be of good quality and in a safe living environment. Temporary housing offers shall only be used exceptionally by families with children and young people, and such stays shall not exceed three months. Homelessness among families with children and young people shall be prevented and reduced. Municipalities have a key role and a primary responsibility to help disadvantaged people in the housing market. They shall contribute to the provision of housing to persons who are unable to take care of their own interests in the housing market. Many municipalities provide suitable housing for the disadvantaged. At state level, we can help to ensure good framework conditions for this work for municipalities. The Government has therefore proposed in the revised national budget for 2014 a strong increase in the commitment framework for rental properties. The increase implies that this year it can be facilitated for about a year. 1,500 new rental homes. This shows that the government is putting action behind words, and confirms that we want to strengthen the housing social work. Difficult housing is a diverse group of people with different challenges and needs. Some people need help with their bouts, others need help to get a suitable home after staying in a crisis centre, in an institution or in a prison. Some are in reception and are waiting for a municipality to settle in, while others need help to master the housing situation. The variety challenges the auxiliaries. We hear about unfortunate events that could have been avoided if we in the public sector had cooperated better. We need tools that are flexible and are designed to meet the challenges each individual has to face. The House Bank has been assigned the role of State coordinator to follow up the strategy. Six directorates have jointly been given the task of ensuring that words become action. The five others are the Directorate for Labour and Welfare, the Directorate for Children, Youth and Family Affairs, the Directorate for Health, the Directorate for Integration and Diversity and the Directorate for Criminal Welfare. Together with the municipalities, the Husbank is responsible for a number of important schemes aimed at helping people to find housing and to become residents: housing support, start-up loans, basic loans, start-up grants and rental housing. Just because there are so many different agencies that have a responsibility or a partial responsibility in this area, and because there are so many different schemes, coordination, coordination, is essential for us to succeed, both in order to have a coherent and coordinated state to deal with, and in order for municipalities to meet the individual with respect. In addition, the five other directorates manage mechanisms that are important for achieving the objectives of the strategy. Seeing the instruments on the housing and services side in the context is challenging, but, as I have stressed, very necessary. We have asked the Directorates to take action to target and coordinate state schemes. I am also pleased that the representative Mudasar Kapur addresses the relationship with non-governmental organisations and non-governmental and public agencies. I would like to stress that non-governmental organisations are key partners for the state and local authorities in the social work of housing. Several have a long tradition of cooperating with the public on housing social work. We also want to strengthen user involvement. Users, relatives and stakeholder organisations shall be involved in the design of residential social work. Today, we have a lot of knowledge about the challenges and solutions of housing social work. Many municipalities are well in the process of developing comprehensive and targeted social work. These are practices and experiences that must be shared with other municipalities. We want to cooperate with the municipalities, but also with the parties in Stortinget, to find the best solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2046	I want to thank the Council of State for the answers so far, and I appreciate the fact that the government is taking these questions very seriously. I must also say that I greatly appreciated the fact that the Council of State invited all the parties at Stortinget to this work, for this is, as I said at the beginning of my post instead, a good thing for the most disadvantaged. I want to focus a little more on that group, and then I think especially about the weakest of all, namely the homeless children – or children in homeless families, for that matter. The Norwegian Institute for Urban and Regional Research defines ‘residentless’ as follows: ‘Residenceless persons are persons who do not dispose of owned or rented dwellings, but are referred to occasional or temporary housing offers, who are temporarily close to relatives, friends or acquaintances, persons under criminal or institutional care and who are to be released or discharged within two months and who do not have housing. Persons without an orderly residence will also be considered as homeless during the coming night.» These are people who are in extreme distress, I would say, when they don't have a place to live. A survey carried out in the context of the report ‘Bostedslöse in Norway 2012’ shows that the number of homeless children increased from 400 in 2008 to 679 in 2012. This happened as the red-green government crashed the country. About 30 pst. Of these, they were in crisis centres, and many of them had a minority background — and we know that immigrant backgrounds can often give a slightly tougher start to life whose language, school and integration are difficult from before. If you also have trouble getting a place to live, it becomes an extra burden to carry. As I said, this increase came under the red-green government. Especially previous debates I have participated in have shown – perhaps also today’s debate will show, it remains to be seen – that the red-greens will not take responsibility for this, but will try to blame the municipalities. I'm impatient for the children. The children don't have time for the red-green excuses. Many municipalities, including: Oslo, is well in the process of developing a holistic and targeted housing-social work. These municipalities are responsible for innovation, and they take a holistic approach to housing social work. I would therefore like to welcome the government's strategy, and would like to hear a little bit more about how the Council of State thinks we can make the great effort to make sure that these children and their families get a safe and permanent home faster.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2066	I believe that the first and most important thing is that we recognise that we are facing significant challenges, that it is a complex challenge, and that this is an area where it is essential to tackle to succeed in creating a society with opportunities for all. This is about children, it's about integration, and it's about many of us who are most vulnerable, who may need help to live – and not least that they are met with respect – in a situation where the housing market is difficult. I've had the pleasure of meeting more people who have had a hard time in the housing market, people who are struggling with intoxication and mental health challenges, who live in sheltered homes, but who had one dream: at some point to get their own home. I have also met a young girl who has worn out considerably in the housing market, but who had a good story to tell, precisely because she was met with respect for the municipality in which she lives. These two stories show me that all people have a dream of having their own place to live, and it also shows me just how important it is to give people the security of their own home. The next is that we also need to recognise in this area that there is a need for innovation and that there is a need for social innovation and entrepreneurship. There's not one answer here, here we have to work in a wide field. This is precisely why the government is committed to coordinating and coordinating its instruments – the different levels, the different mechanisms – and we are committed to working with the municipalities in the best possible way. I also agree with what was said that several municipalities are doing well. I have met several of the City Councils in Oslo, which have a clear strategy in this area, and have now also made an agreement to purchase several apartments. One is just concerned not only with buying apartments that are to be rented out, but that this is part of a larger and wider strategy. Several municipalities also have strategies to move from rental to ownership – I think that is also an important tool – so that you can start by renting a dwelling, and at a later stage have the opportunity to own your own home. It gives you a sense of security, and it gives you an opportunity to move on in life.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2077	Thank you to the interpellant for making an important debate. It's nice to discuss this now when it's getting closer to the end of the staging session. Norwegian housing policy has been largely successful. Most people live well in owner-occupied dwellings, and we have a housing standard that is among the best in the world. But unfortunately, too many people fall outside. 150 000 are disadvantaged in the housing market and 6 200 are absent from a fixed location. It's an unworthy situation. Everyone should have a place to live. The most important thing we can do is build more. But we also need to make a special effort for the disadvantaged. The working party is therefore pleased that the government of Solberg has completed the work with an own housing social strategy that the red-green government started. There has been a long process in which many have contributed, so we look forward very much to seeing the concrete results of the strategy. For the Workers' Party, housing is one of the four pillars of welfare policy, together with education, health and work. Together, they form the basis for everyone to have the opportunity to create a good life. So we know that labour relations are the most important factor that prevents low income and poverty. There is a clear link between lack of employment, low income and housing problems, so for the Workers' Party, the overall objective is to ensure high employment and low unemployment. Unfortunately, we now see that the government has opened up to change the work environment law and that more people have to play on the back-up team in the workplace. It won't be easier to get a place to live if you're a temporary employee. The interpellant invited to do, and it was allowed to make recordings. I'd like to make some concrete input. First of all, don't touch the universal design principle. It's about what society we're going to have in the future. The working party will have an equal society, with good housing of good quality. That's why it's going backwards into the future to relax on these requirements, as the government has opened up. We are happy to focus on families with children. Living and living conditions have an impact on the well-being of children here and now, but we also know that it has consequences when you grow up. So we support it wholeheartedly. I also read that the strategy should support the housing objectives of the cooperation agreement between the government and KS on the settlement of refugees. We know that children in reception are some of the most vulnerable, they have to wait too long for a safe and stable place to live. We therefore hope that the end will come when the government repeatedly proposes to cut appropriations for lone minor asylum seekers. It is a poor social housing policy, and it is a poor integration policy. The strategy also says something about the importance of ensuring good transitions from institution to dwelling. I just want to make the Council aware that there has been uncertainty about the financing of transitional housing because of a circular from the Ministry of Health and Care now in ours. It has, among other things, led to a threat to the transitional dwellings of Spring in Valdres. I therefore ask the government to quickly find a solution that will allow this good offer to be maintained. We are pleased about the Bank's committed cooperation with 50 municipalities. I think that has good results. We are pleased that this should be expanded. This is a strategy that we are concerned about being followed up by concrete measures and appropriations, so let me first praise the government for building more rental homes. We wholeheartedly support that. But we are also concerned about strengthening the Husbank. The councils were in on ownership-to-lease programs. We're very happy to do more of that, so we think it's very sad that the government doesn't strengthen the House Bank, and that they're doing a cut of 5 billion. kr. We also think it is a pity that a much more offensive construction of student housing is not being started now, as the Workers' Party has proposed in the revised version. If we get the pressure on housing, prices will go down, and less will need housing social assistance. Governments talked a lot about coordination. That, I think, is a very important measure. We are aware of the responsibilities of the municipalities as well. I have to say that I fear that the work can get very tight in the priority fight in the municipalities in the future, given the debate we had in this Chamber yesterday, about the local economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2105	I would like to thank the interpellant, the representative Mudasar Kapur, very much for raising an important question and an important debate. I would also like to thank the Council of State for a clear and good answer. It is especially in a rich country that goes well, that we have 150 000 people in the housing market, and that 6 200 people lack a fixed place to live – 6 200. It's when you hear such numbers and look past those numbers, not think of the numbers as statistics, but like a number of people who live with their destiny, that you're really reminded that the self-righteousness we can feel in Norway over the public welfare we've built should not overshadow our ability to have contact with reality. And then it reminds us of the difference between a house and a home. Living and working relationships are interrelated. Some 600 000 people are out of work today. In addition, SSB figures show that in the first quarter of this year there were 71 000 underemployed persons in Norway, i.e. those who are in work but who are not in a full-time job but want to work more. Therefore, I would like to stress that this government has a policy to get more people to work, to lift more of those who are outside the labour market, into the labour market, and a policy for more full-time jobs. In this work, we need to look at the response system, and we need to make moderate changes to the Working Environment Act. Fixed positions must be the general rule, but more people must have the chance to get a foot in. Local trials with different tour arrangements have shown that more freedom to make local agreements can also lead to more full-time jobs. The government is running, and the government's work in this area is incredibly important. Many of those who are struggling on the housing market are young. We know that, while we know that youth unemployment is almost three times higher than unemployment elsewhere, and that employment among young people has been reduced by about 5 percentage points since 2008. In 2012, there were 23 p.m. by the homeless young people. In this context, I would like to draw a little bit from the national strategy for housing-social work. Performance targets 3 require prevention and reduction of homelessness among families with children and young people. What's the basics of this? Well, it's about getting a start on life and a start on adult life with your feet on a safe foot. This is not something one department can do alone – we have a super ministry, but we don't have a miracle department. This must therefore be done in coordination with other welfare policies, including: in the case of work, and in the case of social services. Then it's about information, information about what opportunities you have, and what rights you have. In the end, I just want to say that in such a work, it's important that you don't look blindly at money as an instrument, as some parties have a bleak tendency to do. Similarly, as in so many other areas, this is about coordination and coordination. I'm glad the Council of State is ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2123	It's the first time in my life that I've heard that being able to get homes is not about money. Of course, it's about money. It's whether we're willing to give priority to spending money so that it's possible to build homes, so that those who can't afford to buy at market price today also get hold of their heads. Housing is "basic" – it is absolutely necessary to have a safe life in which a person decides to sail. There have been major changes in housing policy after the war, and I believe that part of housing policy was shaped by what was said by Trygve Bratteli early in the 1960s. Then he said, "No one should own another's home." I think it sounds pretty good to most of us. Therefore, Norwegian housing policy has been largely a policy of ownership. Too many people have done well, but it does not work for everyone. Besides, we now have a modern society, where people move, and some of us differ, and there is a need for a much bigger rental market than it has been before. Every other country has it. Norway is very special in this area. It is also true that the dwelling has changed from being a home, as the representative Heggelund said, to being the main investment object. That means that we get price breaks that make young and disadvantaged people not coming in. This means that we must have an active housing policy both by the state and by the municipalities, because it is the municipalities that are responsible for providing housing, regulating land, facilitating housing and providing housing for the most disadvantaged. So it is not possible, as the interpellant thought, that the municipalities should avoid the responsibility they have – on the contrary. Some municipalities have a broad approach to housing policy, such as: Sandnes, who is not an SV-steered municipality. They have an active land policy, they buy land, they regulate land, they enter into development agreements where housing has to be sold at given prices, so that ordinary young people with normal wages and no good advice can come in. Then you also avoid many of the problems that arise in the housing market we now have, where not only those who don't have a job, or who experience a disease, become disadvantaged, but also quite common young people, with normal lives, regular student loans and a small job. So this is doing a municipality like Sandnes, while other municipalities, like Oslo, have had a much narrower housing policy. Many municipalities have it, one has a policy just towards some of the most disadvantaged. I'm happy with what's now said, that now in this city too you're going to start getting more homes for the disadvantaged, because that's what's needed. So far, a lot of regulated plots, ready to build, have been sold away. Then there will be a lack of housing. So those municipalities that have a broad approach to this succeed much better than those that have a narrow approach to it, and I think it is important that the Council of State can also respond a little. Then it is necessary to strengthen the House Bank, because the House Bank is one of the main instruments. I am amazed when I also hear the interpellant saying that now it is not empty in the House Bank, because it has been decided that they will not be allowed to spend all the money early in the year – they will distribute them into four servings, and that will be enough at the end. But the queue is increasing – the queue is increasing so that there would have been a need to increase the Husbank’s framework now. It would have been a cheap investment for the state to increase housing when needed most. Well, that sounds good. I'm too hard on you – SV is too hard on you. But we don't have to fool ourselves into thinking that more homes are being built in good time in Norway, or that there's someone who wants to be on a job to secure people who can't afford it, thank you over their heads. We have to enable the municipalities to contribute to this, and we have to contribute to it as a big deal. Finally, the construction of student housing is important and necessary. It can be increased. It helps a lot in the rental market. An active housing policy can be imposed on municipalities, for example: also, to look at some of the most difficult, look at the scheme they have in Denmark called ‘Shake Houses’. It has been discussed in Norway. I think we should look at several such housing solutions as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2140	I would also like to thank the interpellant for putting a very important theme on the agenda, because housing-social work is important. This work involves many actors. Cooperation across sectors and levels of government is essential for the success of housing social work. The recently submitted strategy paper, the Housing for Welfare, has been presented by five government councils. In order to succeed in the social work of housing, a cooperation is needed. Having such a clear anchoring at five government councils makes it visible that the government is concerned about this. It is important to ensure that work is given priority in the respective departments and Directorates and that work is given a good framework. This government is concerned with cooperation and interaction, and it shows action and does something about what is not working well enough. A major interaction reform has recently been introduced in the healthcare system, but attention, focus and incentives for interaction are needed in other areas of society as well. Housing-social work is such an area. This is why it is great that the government has taken this on board by providing a national strategy for housing-social work, and that the government is so clear that cooperation and interaction between those responsible for this field must be successful. Role clarifications and responsibilities are important. The dwelling is of great importance for the growth of children and young people. The dwelling is important to all of us, because it is our home. It is important for the safety of the family. And it's an important framework for social life. As many as 150,000 people have difficulties in the housing market. In this group there are also many families with children. They must have our attention. Children in low-income families often live worse and needier than others, and they rarely live in a home that the family owns. The number of children in the low-income group has increased steadily because the population is increasing. Children with a migrant background are strongly overrepresented in the low income group. This is related to a combination of weak labour market ties between parents and child-rich families. It is important to strengthen efforts towards families with children and young people who do not live well, in order to prevent poor living conditions from being inherited. The government is committed to facilitating and helping those who do not have a gainful job have a chance of entering the labour market. A gainful activity is one of the most important measures to combat poverty and an important instrument for finding a home itself. Good housing-social work with cross-departmental cooperation has a positive impact on the achievement of the objectives of both work, health, education and integration. Assistance to income through work or education is often essential to the success of housing social work. I am pleased with the three overall national objectives set for the social work of the strategy document: Everyone should have a good place to live. All those in need of services shall be assisted in mastering living conditions. Public efforts shall be comprehensive and effective. I know that a targeted, comprehensive, interdisciplinary and good job is being done in many municipalities around the country, and that the House Bank is a good partner. Many have received good help in buying their own home. The invitation to invite me to do some hard work, which the interpellant made in his post, also seems to me to be important. I don't think it's a good thing to build the houses, which I felt the representative Karin Andersen was in, but it's just sharing the good experiences and the good examples around the country and learning from each other, so that the national goals can be met.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2174	I would like to thank most warmly all those who have taken part in the debate, especially the Council of State, who have given clear signals that the government will ensure better coordination than has been the case in recent years, across departments and agencies. I think that's absolutely crucial. I also believe that the other parties in the submissions have pointed out many of the same issues. The representative of the Workers' Party mentioned, inter alia: that more needs to be built. This was also done by the representative from SV. But then it surprises me that they are voting against many of the simplification proposals – no later than three days ago. So the representative from SV says that we have to spend more money in this market to get more people into homes. But it doesn't help emptying out a lot of money in the market when those who are going to build don't have the right assumptions for building the houses. So it's going to be a little bit hard to understand. I must also remind the representative from the Workers' Party that it was precisely the red-green government that wanted to tighten up the start-up loan scheme at the Husbank. And I notice it from the pulpit: we suggested what we suggested a, we suggested b and c – and now we get to blame for this government actually implementing, while the others had some good suggestions on the heart. I also want to pay tribute to the representative Heggelund to point out a very simple matter, and it is often the easiest thing to do. It's that we have to have more yes-communities. When he talks about that we need better information, it is simply about providing good service to the individual citizen. They must meet the same kind of information and service as they meet elsewhere in society, so they can be better able to help themselves through a difficult situation. I also fully agree that work and housing policy are interrelated. The more people we get in work, the more people we get into the housing market. There's no doubt about it. Finally, I am also very pleased that all parties who took the floor agree with the government's new strategy for housing-social work in the future. They also agree that more needs to be done. They also agree that this should be simplified. And they also agree that it must be given greater priority. Then I have great hopes that they will also be in favour of our simplification proposals, improvement proposals and renewal proposals in this Chamber in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2192	I would also like to take this opportunity to thank you for an interesting and useful and important debate. I hope that this discussion marks the beginning of a task in Stortingen in the residential social area. I agree with the interpellant that this is an area that requires broad effort. Both our efforts to make it easier to build more and more reasonable dwellings through the simplification work we are now doing, and the housing social strategy is important instruments. It is central that we have coordinated and coordinated the state agencies and the various support schemes, but I would also like to stress that cooperation with the municipalities is absolutely essential, and that the municipalities meet the people who are struggling on the housing market with respect. So finally, in the case of the House Bank, I agree that the House Bank should play an important role in the housing social area, but the House Bank should not compete with the ordinary financial market. The various lending arrangements of the home bank shall be complementary, in addition. That is why we have now also targeted the start-up loan scheme, so that it is not a loan scheme for people who have good advice, but that it is a scheme for those who have long-standing challenges on the housing market. We are doing well with the housing social strategy. The strategy is in place. An important coordination and coordination work has been started. We are well in the process of simplifying and renewing the Law on Planning and Building and facilitating the construction of more dwellings. And we're doing well to also increase the appropriations for rental homes, so that more people can get into the housing market.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2203	Then the interpellant debate is finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2218	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2223	It is a unanimous committee that agrees with the government that it has been a strength for Norwegian consumers to participate in the consumer programmes that have gone into the EU, and that it will therefore also be a strength to enter into the fourth consumer programme. The fourth consumer programme is essentially a continuation of what has been in the other programmes, but the Committee has noticed and is pleased with one thing, and it is even more important to look at the situation of vulnerable consumers. It is important for us to ensure a high level of consumer protection. As we act, and increasingly across borders and with other countries, it is important for us that we are confident that our own health and our legal and economic rights are well respected. When we are part of this program, we will also be part of a common market surveillance that will take care of just these things for us. The four main objectives of the programme are also central to Norwegian consumers. There is product safety through market surveillance, consumer information and training, and support to consumer organisations, there are rights and fulfilment of rights, including: through good dispute resolution and enforcement of consumer rights through cooperation between nations. It has therefore been easy to bring together the Committee that we should do this. So I just want to make it clear that the background for this case to come here now is that inclusion in this is something that requires budgetary decisions over several years. It was therefore important and necessary that the Storting give its support to this now, before we take a summer vacation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2234	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur, who has taken the matter off the committee. Prop. 78 S for 2013-2014 continues to allow Norwegian consumer interests to participate in the work of the EU in the consumer field. It is good because the consumer area is increasingly influenced by consumers making their purchases across borders. Cooperation with EU countries contributes to the provision of goods and services that are not harmful to health but are safe and that safeguard consumers’ financial interests. Not many days ago, we dealt with a matter relating to the implementation of the EU Consumer Directive. It ensures that Norwegian rules are similar to those we meet in Europe. This is a matter of participation in a European consumer programme, and the Workers' Party naturally supports our continuing participation in such programmes. Participation in such programmes, however, costs the participants money. It is therefore important that Norwegian consumer organisations have the means to capitalise on the opportunities offered by such programmes and cooperation. That is why, in our opinion, there is reason for concern about the cut that was carried out on the appropriations of the State Institute for Consumer Research of the Solberg Government. In their comments, government parties say that the cut came as a result of an initial restructuring of the institute's laboratory, as the Stoltenberg government announced in Prop. 1 S for 2013–2014. But in Prop. 1 S states that the Governing Board will make such assessments during 2014. However, the Government chose to take that decision before the Board drew its conclusions. With long leases and employees on waiting pay, the savings made are a real cut that will go beyond just participation in what is not the institution’s core business.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2247	Product safety, consumer information, legal rights, dispute resolution, supervision and enforcement are important elements of a good consumer policy. By being part of the Consumer Programme 2014-2020, we are connected to the good work done in the EU to secure consumers. Norwegian participation in the programme requires budgetary decisions over several years. Therefore, the Government has submitted this proposition to request prior agreement from the Storting to include the Programme in the EEA Agreement. Norway in Europe. The Government’s strategy for cooperation with the EU in 2014–2017 was recently adopted in Stortinget. What about Norwegian consumers in Europe? An important job for us is to help them benefit from what is done in the EU. And Norwegian consumers are in Europe. We travel a lot, and we act online, which I was also involved in a debate in Stortinget earlier this week, when proposals for a new law implementing the EU Consumer Rights Directive were discussed. Consumer policy is also mentioned in the government's European strategy. It says: ‘We will also contribute to a good consumer policy at European level. Safe consumers contribute to the creation of value added and growth.» One way to contribute is to participate in the Consumer Programme. Norway has been involved since 2000 and is involved in most of the activities under the programme. The new programme is a continuation of previous programmes, but with increased emphasis on vulnerable consumers and their needs. So what does it mean for us to be in this program? Indeed, when new measures and new legislation are to be developed in the EU, a sound knowledge base is the basis. By being part of the programme, we also ensure that Norwegian conditions are examined and included in studies and research reports, or, to put it another way: Norwegian consumer reality is involved in the adoption of EU policies and priorities. Rights are good and good, and tomorrow there will be a second reading in Stortingen of the implementation of the Consumer Rights Directive. But rights aren't always enough. Consumers must also know about them and be able to use them. Consumer Europe, located in the Consumer Council, provides information and help to Norwegian consumers experiencing cross-border problems. If you are planning to import a car yourself or are wondering what you should be aware of when renting a car on holiday, you will find information and advice on this and much more on their websites. The consumer also helps to resolve disputes with European traders. Through the program will be 50 pst. by consumers Europe's activities funded by the EU. But at least as important they are part of a network, and they cooperate with the sister offices of all EU countries, as well as Iceland. It is an offer I am pleased that we can now provide Norwegian consumers. Supervision and enforcement are also important. We see many examples of unprofessional companies established in one country cheating consumers in another European country. Then cooperation is needed to deal with the problems. We also see large companies operating throughout the European market, like Apple and Google. In this way, cooperation is good when the list of what is required for contractual terms and marketing is to be provided. Product safety cooperation is another example, where the programme finances RAPEX, the mutual warning system for dangerous products. By being part of that programme, we are part of a cooperation on supervision and enforcement on the European market, on consumer rights in general, but also on product safety and cosmetics. Norway has a long tradition of good and close consumer cooperation. I'm glad the committee has noticed the benefits of this. We can now, by joining the new consumer programme, continue the good cooperation with the EU, which is an important part of Norwegian consumer policy. I note that the minority in the committee is concerned about the situation at SIFO. I understand that a reduction in funding for SIFO may have implications for the overall research activity of the Institute. But as of today, it is difficult for me to say quite specifically how it will turn out to be part of international programmes. It is also important that SIFO, like all other research institutions, work aimed at improving the quality of project applications and cooperation opportunities. In this way, we also increase the potential for getting external revenues to SIFO.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2276	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2290	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that three replies be given to the main speakers of the parties and five replies to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2299	The Family and Culture Committee has had Meld. I would like to thank the Committee for the work that has been carried out, as rapporteur for the work that has been carried out. On 25 March of this year, the grant scheme was amended. There is now a dynamic ceiling and production grants can be provided for publication on all platforms – except broadcasting. The work on the conversion and modernisation of the scheme is thus well under way. Since its introduction in 1969, the device has been modified several times. The fact that it has now been made platform neutral is a further modernisation and adapts the scheme to a day-to-day media where changes take place very quickly. We're probably in the middle of the biggest revolution in the history of printed and written mass media. The ability of the public to exercise its freedom of expression, to publish its own opinions, is now almost innumerable. It has been so rapid and has been so cumbersome that it must be said that social media have revolutionized the access of the public to express itself freely. Blogs, web comments, new websites, Twitter messages, Facebook pages and Instagram images are published every second. This is just a tiny selection of all the possibilities that have followed and that continue to follow, in the wake of this development. In this picture, however, we still see an important communication task for news and timeliness media, as well as facilitating a broad public debate. But the editor's role today is a completely different one, with a completely different and less force than a few years ago. I don't think anyone – even the most balled editor – dares to predict what this looks like in a short time. It is therefore very important that we do not preserve a support scheme and hope for the best. We need to make a continuous assessment of the device and form of support. The ten largest newspapers receive almost 75 pst. of the 308 million. the amount of the aid. Over 110 other newspapers distribute the rest. These are small local guides that are at least equally important contributions to the diversity we want. Or if we rain a little further: the five largest receivers – the daily newspaper, our country, the class struggle, the nations and the day – receive 53 pst. of the money. To put it another way: 4 pst. the newspapers run off with more than half of the money. This distribution and the device may not be perfect. Therefore, following the majority view of the Committee, the scheme should be subject to further revision and modernisation – first and foremost through a static ceiling of 40 million. kr. This would with today's level given room to re-dispose $7 million. to small and important local authorities in the districts. In the position of the second largest beneficiary, Our Country, the editorial board appears more supportive than supported. When we argue that a crown cap will release funds for the smaller newspapers, it goes to the editor of our country, who points to parliamentary practice, instead of helping to discuss the support system. The production grant is a framework scheme. That means if someone gets more, others get less. This can be illustrated by the following example: the two largest recipients of press support, the Newspaper and Our Country – gathered in the company Mentor Media – receive nearly 30 p.m. of the whole pot. With a $40 million head. NOK 80 million would be spent on the two, which have good soundness and satisfactory profitability. kr instead of today's SEK 87 million. kr. Then other actors within the same scheme would receive 7 million. kr more, and there is a lot of money for many small and important local viewers. When we want to modernise the system, it's because we see that it's going wrong and diversity is being challenged. This shows why it is important to continue working on how this support is distributed. Society is changing rapidly – the media industry is changing rapidly. Norway’s very largest newspaper, VG, suggests that they are gone as paper newspapers in a few years’ time. This is a new reality. If we are to preserve diversity and ensure it, we can no longer doubt about conservation arrangements. This is what the majority of the Committee sees as continuing the need to modernise the instrument through increased non-discrimination and better targeting. So this is a continuous work in a constantly changing media landscape. I note that the Workers' Party has turned 180 degrees and left its previously well-founded position on a static roof – and is now adapting the reasoning accordingly. It is also disappointing to see that the Group of the Left has set aside the party programme, thereby also putting an end to a more modern and targeted system than we have today. This reverse operation could probably be noticed at locals who now get less than they could have. Together with the media, production aid constitutes the two most important contributions to a diverse press. Mediemomas and production support are also the respirator of the paper paper newspapers. I hope we can in the future find together and get a majority of modern solutions adapted to development. As it is now, we still go with our backs into the future and with our eyes firmly attached to the slowly dying paper newspapers.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2327	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2330	I find that there is a shift in the media policy direction that the Stortinget wants. Now, there will not be a majority for this change of direction here today, but this is clear from the case-rapporteur's investigations. But I have a question, because of course it's a coincidence that the two newspapers that are hit by the so-called static ceiling are two of the newspapers that are critical of government policy and media policy. So my question to the case rapporteur is this: Does our country and the daily newspaper contribute to increasing the diversity of the Norwegian press, or does they not contribute to it? Or is it that you don't think it's worth maintaining this contribution, despite the fact that these newspapers are also the most important meaningful newspapers on this side of the line?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2337	Our Country and Newspaper contribute to the diversity of Norwegian newspapers – the answer to that is yes. In the case of a 40-mill ceiling. kr, it is only a continuation of the government’s proposal by Stoltenberg, which proposed 40 million. kr as a roof, which also, after the hearing, maintained that 40 million. kr would be a reasonable ceiling, and also notified to ESA that it wanted to introduce a static roof. So that is to the extent a policy on which the Labour Party until recently was also involved. Nor is it the case that these newspapers should be supported. If we had introduced a 40 million cap. kr – with which the Labour Party agreed until recently – these two newspapers had received a total of 80 million. kr. It is not a matter of wanting to remove the newspapers or making it more difficult for them. These are newspapers, as I also mentioned in the post, which have good soundness and satisfactory performance.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2346	I would like to ask the case rapporteur if he believes that it is such that a reduction in the support for these two newspapers of 4 and 3 million respectively. kr, will be a contribution to critical quality journalism, or will it not be. Will it have the effect that critical journalism will be weakened if this grant is reduced in the magnitude of this issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2351	If we could have done another device on the press stand, i.e. spend 7 million. NOK 308 million. kr distributed today, differently, given to smaller newspapers, local newspapers, around the districts, it would strengthen the diversity of opinion and strengthen the flora of Norwegian paper newspapers. There are very many of the nearly 120 other newspapers balancing on the edge of the plunge, and that – if they could get a few hundred thousand more dollars, distributed by these newspapers – would have the means that might have enabled them to pursue further critical journalism and pursue further important local journalism, which is also very important for democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2358	I note that the case rapporteur believes that it is necessary to sacrifice critical journalism in the national media in favour of greater diversity in local media. This is an interesting point of view. Of course, you can ask in the next round whether the Council of State agrees with this view – but I note that the rapporteur is of the opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2365	It was a strange observation by the representative of Gullvåg. What I'm saying is that if you can distribute and align the system more correctly and less crooked than today, you would strengthen diversity, and you would strengthen critical journalism. It is not like our country or newspaper balances on the edge of the stump. These seven million. NOK 3 million, respectively. NOK 4 million. kr, would not, to a significant extent, go beyond the critical journalism of the two newspapers. On the contrary, more and better critical journalism could have been achieved in several newspapers in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2370	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2374	The diversity of the media landscape is of great importance to Norwegian democracy. Free media and the right to speak through the written word are fundamental to any democratic society. News and timeliness media have a vital social function by targeting a variety of opinions, providing free and critical journalism and contributing to the debate on society. This is the starting point for media policy in Norway, and not least the starting point for today’s debate. The use of the Internet and social media has revolutionised the ability of the public to exercise its freedom of expression. While the new opportunities for expression constitute overall strength for democracy, news and timeliness media continue to have an important role to play in communicating and facilitating a broad public debate. The direct production grant scheme was established in 1969, with the aim of maintaining a differentiated daily press. The working party is pleased that the production grant is now being converted from a subsidy reserved for paper newspapers to a platform neutral grant. The daily media and media consumption of users are changing rapidly, and it is right to facilitate the transition to forward-looking news dissemination through a platform-neutral production grant. It is essential that the grant goes to media with a real need for support and contributes to a broad and nuanced public debate. The production grant has contributed to a wide variety of newspapers across the country, which has led to the Nordics being the world's most news-reading people. This is an ambition we must also have for the future – also on new platforms. The grant must be seen in conjunction with all media support schemes, including media SMEs. The production grant has two objectives: to contribute to a diversity of small localities, and to stimulate diversity of opinion in the major cities. The working party considers that there is a need to increase the production grant and, in this respect, refers to Prop. 1 S for 2013–2014, where the red-green government proposed to increase Chapter 335 entry 21 by 23,8 million. kr compared to 2103. In a joint comment, the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party warn the government against proposing cuts in the production grant, as was done in Prop. 1 S Appendix 1 for 2013–2014, as this will affect the smallest localities. The Labour Party is pleased with the work done by the Christian People's Party and the Left in the budget negotiations to ensure that there was no clean cut in the 2014 production grant. The proposals to either introduce a static aid ceiling of 40 million. kr or a dynamic roof of 40 pst. total operational costs have been consulted. Most hearing bodies are in favour of a system with a dynamic ceiling. Such a cap will allow for increased competition — including in the major cities — and contribute to increased public opinion. The government states that the production grant is a framework scheme, that it will provide more support to some actors, and that it means less support to others. I would point out that the level of appropriations is set annually, and the Workers' Party assumes that the facility and level of the production aid will take into account the real needs of the beneficiaries for financial support. We have noticed that the Department considers it impractical to abolish the dynamic grant package that has already been implemented in the scheme, which the Workers' Party agrees with. We assume that a dynamic aid ceiling related to the proportion of the operating costs of the beneficiaries was a necessary prerequisite for the ESA’s approval of the scheme. The Labour Party points out that in an industry which has so much of its income from the Community, the Community should also be able to impose conditions and restrictions on the withdrawal of dividends and options based on the public support schemes. We have noticed some media headlines about high management salaries and dividends, and believe that part of the industry itself has to bear responsibility for some of the crisis that many newspapers are experiencing today. The Workers' Party will therefore propose that the Government investigate how to ensure that any future increases in support schemes are protected and used for the purpose, which is journalism and dissatisfaction. On behalf of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, I address the proposal referred to in the vote: ‘The Government is asked not to introduce a static ceiling on production aid.’ In addition, the Workers' Party will make the following proposals: ‘The government is asked to investigate how to ensure that any future increases in support schemes are used for the purpose of journalism and diversity of opinion.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2408	The representative, Rigmor Aasrud, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2413	I would like to ask the representative of Aasrud about nationally dispersed, meaningful newspapers versus opinion gaps in the big cities. The file states that a ceiling will limit the possibilities for increased competition in the major cities. It also states that the production grant has two objectives: to contribute to the diversity of small localities and to stimulate the diversity of opinion in large cities. Have you now strayed from the concept of ‘nationally distributed, meaningful newspapers’ and instead talk about urban newspapers? Or what is the background for introducing this into the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2420	We see that it is in many of the big cities we have experienced a sense of opinion lately. That's where the publishing venues are, and that's why we want to look at the opportunities to stimulate that the newspapers that have places of publication other than in Oslo – and the small localities – can get a basis for establishing more votes out there and getting the sense of diversity we think is necessary. There's no more nuances in it, except that we see that in the big cities there are opportunities to establish voices other than those we have per day.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2427	I heard from the post of the representative of the Workers' Party that this was the new meaning of the Workers' Party – to see opportunities to develop Avis-Norway. I didn't get it in the post, but what's the difference from when the Stoltenberg government said that 40 million. So this is the correct number, so they've increased to 50 million. Do you really want to delete this item? What's the difference from when Stoltenberg showed up and had an assessment around it – a difference of 40 million. NOK 50 million. kr – and what consequences does the representative of the small localities around the country see as they continue to strengthen these urban newspapers, as it was said. I have two questions: what are the reasons for increasing from 40 million. NOK 50 million. Do you really want to delete this item? Is there any new information on that? And what about the consequences for the small locals around the country who could finally get a promise?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2436	When we presented the result of the hearing on that matter, we were clear that we were uncertain about how to set up the system. We notified ESA of a ceiling of 50 million. kr. This is an industry that is very dynamic, and that is happening a lot in it. That is why we have chosen to listen to the unambiguous advice given at the hearings. We believe that when we send a case to the hearing, it actually makes sense to listen to the recordings we have received. We have done that in this case. That's why we've ended up like we've done. I have to say that if there are any people who should be concerned about the policy that the government is pursuing, it is small local authorities. I would like to remind the representative Thomsen that the government in which his party has representatives proposed a significant cut in the press support before Christmas. It'll go against the small locals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2443	I thank you for your answer. What came out at the hearing was that they saw 40 million. kr was just the right thing to strengthen the localities around the country, not just the city newspapers. When we also see that this particularly affects Our Country and Newspaper, more people here have now said that they are not 100 pst. depending on these means to enable critical journalism to continue. But the locals around the country competing with the NRK for news, however, need this money more. Does the representative not see that this small promise that locals could have made around the country is precisely what they do not get from continuing to strengthen the city newspapers?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2452	I see that since the government and government parties in this Chamber voted against the proposal to increase press support, there will be less money to distribute in the press support. So I just repeat what I said earlier: when you look at how to set up the press support, you also have to look at the total amount that is for distribution. The Labour Party acknowledges that if we are to have a living diversity of opinion, we need to have a press support at a higher level than what we've had in the past. We presented that in our budget before Christmas, and I note that the Progress Party and the Right in its proposal is making sure to reduce the increase we had planned. This is regrettable for the small localities that are around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2459	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2462	For some people this is a very, very special day, for some are very, very dramatic changes, and for many there is a brand day within Media Norway. But if we later see that we've gone too far, done something wrong, you can change it. You can reverse it. But you have to be involved in evolution. You can't rest on the spot when you're working with Medie-Norway. Diversity in the media landscape of Norwegian democracy is important. I believe that this room fully agrees – that it is important. News and timeliness media have a vital social function by targeting a variety of opinions, providing free and critical journalism and contributing to the societal debate. No one is discussing the use of the Internet anymore, and it has come to be. The use of the Internet and social media has revolutionised the public's ability to exercise its freedom of expression. Not everyone thinks it's a good opinion, but it's at least a freedom of expression for those who have the opportunity. The new capacity for expression is, in total, a strength for democracy, and we see that every day, not least when the representatives of big business are also active on these media. The direct production grant scheme was established in 1969 for the purpose of maintaining a differentiated daily press and has since been amended several times. That we're doing something now, is just about time in my opinion. We have come so far in Medie-Norway that this is a discussion we should almost take every year. The production grant is now converted from a subsidy reserved for paper newspapers into a platform-neutral grant. There are also other places where you should have looked at it – in the book industry, for example. Media everyday life and media consumption in Norway and users are changing rapidly, and then we in Stortinget – and we have a responsibility for this – must not freeze and lock ourselves to a single system, but facilitate transitions to a forward-looking news channel through platform neutral production subsidies. The production grant is likely to contribute to ensuring diversity. It should also be essential that the grant goes to media with real support needs and contributes to a broad and nuanced public debate. Why do I say "certain"? That's because we don't discuss the content of the paper. But we're taking signals that are coming. Some newspapers are also active at hearings and tell about the need for themselves. There will still be media companies that are going to wear out financially. There will still be media companies asking for more funds. But it will also limit them. The Nordics are the world's most news-reading people, and there's an ambition that the government parties the Progress Party and the Right will be involved in maintaining. But that doesn't mean that the paper is made up of paper, but that it also facilitates other arrangements. The newspaper industry must also have a predictable framework as far as possible. All branches should have predictability. But the industry should also be motivated by innovation and be in the forefront of development, which we see several newspapers have had good luck with. There are some things I have not understood from the previous government, the Stoltenberg government. The working party has changed from 40 million. kr, to which the sitting government has set up, and now proposes to increase to 50 million. kr. The argument I didn't get completely with me, but what I understand, and the consequence of that, is that we had the opportunity to give more money to locals out there, which we have the impression of struggling the most. It's not Akersgata who's struggling, but it's locals who fight every single day to publish a paper newspaper, and not least be involved in the online competition they have with the NRK.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2483	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2487	In Norway, we have what is among the world's richest media diversity, and good journalism with many skilled employees throughout the country. Our policies have worked. If the Progress Party believes, as stated by the representative Thomsen, that we should have a media gap: what kind of instruments should we use to avoid the commercial market taking over and becoming more important than the journalistic content?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2492	I think all newspaper directors and editors also think commercially. I know that newspaper editors are concerned with the Editorial poster. It's not something we're willing to change, we think it's important. But the representative refers to the successful policy that the Labour Party has led to today. It's not that successful when you haven't got the changes that have happened in society, and adapted it to them. We are willing to be obs on the market and how the media market is developing in the future. Then it is not useful to look back, then we actually have to be innovators and look forward, something neither the Stortinget nor the Workers' Party has been known for before.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2499	I thank you for your answer. When I referred to previous policies, it could have been just as much a civilly governed policy. The policy in Norway has worked in the face of a rich media diversity. However, many journalists and employees in the various media houses in Norway wear a disturbing lump in their stomachs. The fear of dismissals and a final package solution can be found in several of the Norwegian editors. I will again challenge the Progress Party to respond to what measures they will take to secure jobs in Norwegian editorials.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2508	The first thing we do now is exactly the case we are dealing with today, which we believe would have been more focused if we had added 40 million. Precisely with the small localisations as justification. You don't have to look back, but there's never been any mention of more people in the individual editorials around the country than during the time of the Workers' Party in government. The only place it hasn't been re-smoking or cancellations is in the NRK, because they get their fixed amount every year. But the little newspapers and the little media houses have to fight to keep the wheels going. Then you have to think commercially, you have to think new, you have to have innovation in your whole mindset, and it's a challenge with an old-fashioned policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2515	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2518	In the anniversary year of the Constitution it is appropriate to recall the Constitution § 100 which protects the right to express oneself freely. Yes, the state even requires ‘to facilitate an open and informed public conversation’, as it is called in the Constitution. Free media and the right to speak through the written word are essential for any society. The state has a responsibility to facilitate this. Therefore, it is good that the media industry has been given schemes that contribute to making them viable, and in many areas these schemes have been successful. But the development of the media industry is alarming, and it is going very quickly – competition from foreign media is increasing, reading habits are changing, and the media are losing revenue – and we need to ask ourselves if the framework conditions are good enough. Norwegian media are at the top of the world when it comes to using new technologies. At the same time, the same technology has made international companies, such as Google and Facebook, take advertising revenue on the Norwegian market – without having self-produced content. The entire three-quarters of the digital advertising market in Norway go to such actors. Paper mills and magazines are now experiencing a sharp fall in advertising revenue without compensating for digital advertising revenue. The paper advertising has fallen by 30 pst. from 2007 to 2013, which equals 2.2 billion. kr, and this year only, the paper advertising will decrease by an additional 560 million. kr, according to the forecasts. Google and Facebook, by comparison, will have advertising revenues in Norway of about 2.5 billion. kr. We use the web more and read less on paper. In the middle of this, Norwegian media experience massive competition from abroad. Why is Norwegian journalism and Norwegian-produced content important? Well, this is important for the diversity of opinion and, finally, for the freedom of expression itself. The media operate in a market, but it is more than enterprise policy. It's cultural policy, it's Norwegian language management, and it's Norwegian identity management. I think it is important that we have this as a back carpet when we discuss a matter like this. The government communication states that several hearing bodies consider that the dynamic grant element related to 40 pst. of the operating costs of the beneficiaries replace the need for a static grant cap of 40 million. kr. We agree. We accept a dynamic roof, but not a static roof, and the government has been aware of that all along. A static ceiling is old-fashioned in my view. There is no incentive for the beneficiaries to evolve, and we must have adjusted the ceiling gradually. On the other hand, a much more dynamic roof will leave us with the motivation of newspapers to produce good results. The media support and production support for newspapers are important, especially in the situation we are currently in, with falling circulation figures. The state has a responsibility to ensure a diversity of publications, and I assume that the government is taking the Storting decision today as a clear signal that the press support should be strengthened and not cut. The VAT exemption for paper newspapers has helped Norway to have many local guides, which are read by the entire population, but now many are switching to digital services. I think this is where the next media policy battle will stand – on VAT exemptions also for digital newspapers. It is good that the government will treat paper newspapers and digital platforms in the same way. The Christian People's Party agrees, but the Christian People's Party also expects that the government will now look at the possibility of VAT exemption also for digital newspapers, that we get equal treatment, and this is particularly important in the situation that the media industry is currently in. I think that zero-zero-VAT would be an important and good contribution to the situation the newspapers are in now, and I hope that we can look at this together in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2537	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2540	The Christian People's Party and the representative Bekkevold are to be commended for having stood firm on a point of view on this with static roofs. At the same time, I have to be allowed to challenge the representative, because I see that both the party and the representative are very often concerned with ensuring diversity, breadth and getting the most involved in the arrangement, and here one will say no to that. They talked about dynamic roofs as an incentive to get good economics. No, one can only increase costs there, and then the state covers 40 pst. by it when one is lying above that roof. It's not an incentive to save money. What is the main reason why the Christian People's Party will not redistribute from those who take one third of the pot here, and to the diversity that is really out there?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2549	In the view of the Christian People's Party, a static roof is a rather old-fashioned way of regulating this – not least because if you introduce such a roof, what do you do when the media start to stop on this roof? Then you have to make changes, then you have to raise it. Thus, a dynamic roof is much more relevant and much more forward-looking than a static roof. The Christian People's Party has never – as the representative Harberg quite rightly said – been for a static thank-you, and we have also signaled very clearly to the government that this is something we are not going to agree to. Now the press support is wired. In order to lift the whole diversity, we need to look at the frames and the device. That's how you can give more grants to local viewers out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2554	Thank you for the answer, but I know that I am becoming very concerned, because now the representative Bekkevold is far inside the budget negotiations, to say the least, and we are not taking that here! But I now record that the representative – in posts and replies – says that there needs to be an increase in production aid, an increase in the framework, because they need to get more and more money here. At the same time he said well in the post now that he wants zero VAT on both paper newspapers and digital newspapers. I wonder where in the media and book industry we're going to take back the superfluous sums of beckew now promises from the pulpit here.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2561	I say that the Christian People's Party will discuss VAT policy in the media. We point out that zero-zero-VAT can be a good contribution. It's probably not the only contribution, but it can be a good contribution and may be a transitional arrangement in a situation where the media industry is struggling enormously. It's been a development that's gone very fast. Only in the last eight months do we know more than what we did when the government platform was written. It makes us have to have several thoughts in our head at the same time, and therefore we have pointed this out as one possibility, one way to go, and hope that we can get a discussion about it. But I can reassure Mr Harberg that the budget negotiations are not taking place here in a row.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2569	Two questions: One thing is for the documents of the case, where the Christian People's Party is involved in a comment stating that: ‘refers to the dual purpose of the production grant: to contribute to a diversity of small localities, and to stimulate diversity of opinion in the major cities’. [[...]] The first question is: have you left the position that the grant should also help the nationally spread opinion papers? The representative Becquerad talks about when you reach the static ceiling, you have to raise it. We don't necessarily agree with that automation. The point with a static thank-you is that you have a thank-you, and if you get over it, we're going to spend that money, for example. small and important local guides. That's why the second question is: if the representative is satisfied with a system that was originally supposed to provide a diversity and a flora of newspapers, there are two actors, Our Country and Newspaper, at Mentor Media, who provide almost 30 pst. of the whole pot?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2585	We're also on the note that applies to newspapers in the big cities. Even where the newspapers are struggling – in line with many other small local newspapers, but also national newspapers. We can see that. From the newspapers that are now part of this aid scheme, feedback is that the situation is serious. That is why we are in favour of this comment and share that concern. The Christian People's Party is concerned that we should have a rich flora of newspapers, both paper newspapers and online newspapers. It's important. This is not just about industry, as I said in my post. This is also about having a mangold of comments, and therefore it is important to have a device on the press stand that ensures this. We believe that a static ceiling does not help to preserve this diversity. As I said in my post, the media support is framed, and then we have to see if the frames are good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2592	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2595	Different parts of the press support have been well-functioning and absolutely necessary since the Away Government introduced the scheme in 1969. The goal was to maintain a differentiated press. It has been seen as a fundamental democratic value for media consumers — today they are more likely to be called them than ‘newsreaders’ — to have access to different views and opinions in the media landscape. Press support is based on principles that remain of great relevance and value. It has worked well, sailing if a curious enough experienced a significant scepticism from the Right when the press support was introduced in 1969. With a population of five million, the population base and the advertising market alone are not large enough to provide a good economic basis for competing regional newspapers and meaningful national newspapers, to mention two examples. That means that many newspapers are struggling economically, seams if their market position is strong. It is good that the production grant has now been neutralised. Such an adjustment to the instrument is forward-looking and in line with current media reality, where online publication is an important part of the newspapers’ activities and the everyday lives of readers. The centre party joins the introduction of a dynamic support cap of 40 pst. of the operating costs. We believe that such a grip will be sufficient to achieve the goal of no recipients becoming too dependent on support, and we believe that a dynamic roof is preferable to a static roof. The centre party is therefore pleased that an overall opposition warns that one does not want the government's proposal to introduce a static crown cap. The alternative could be that important, meaningful newspapers would have a dramatically weakened economy, and it could also penalize newspapers with publishing and good business ideas. It is a fact that the industry as a whole and the newspapers receiving production subsidies have shown significantly weaker economic performance in recent years. Therefore, the red-green government increased the production premium in 2013 and proposed a further increase in 2014. When I heard in the reply that the representative Thomsen almost assigns to the Workers' Party the responsibility for the cancellation of the media industry, during the red-green reign, I am a little surprised. Then I wonder if he understands what has happened in the last four to five years in the media market, which is not at all related to the colour of the government, but which is a dramatic change in the reality of the media industry. I do not think the last words have been said about the future of the press support, the issue of an overall opposition today says no to a static ceiling on production aid, because the government platform clearly states that the press support should be reduced. And I have noticed that in this connection, the representatives of the Right have almost announced a rematch after today's decision. I also became quite ‘me’, as the case-rapporteur here today expressed himself in such a way that one can simply be unsure whether the case-rapporteur and the government have really put static thank-you or not, and whether he and the Progress Party have not fully taken into account what is the actual majority in this matter. In any case, I am concerned that some of the signals we have received after the suspension was given, and what we hear from the case rapporteur today is difficult to understand other than that the government still intends to challenge what is a real majority in this case. It will, in my view, be very unwise, and it will only help to increase uncertainty in an industry that is already experiencing major changes, and which needs more than anything else predictability from political authorities in the future. There is a need for a media policy that now strengthens rather than weakens the prospects of the media and ensures a media diversity. It also requires that we, as policy makers, can contribute to predictability of the industry's framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2621	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2624	First a little comment: we're going to fight for our case until the vote. I thought it was common, and that you didn't get so surprised that we do. When the matter is voted on, we shall deal with what was decided. My question to the Central Party, which is an avid and consistent champion of diversity, not least in the districts, is: how in the world does the representative see that one can now strengthen diversity in the districts when one says no to the redistribution actually proposed in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2631	It is good to hear that the government parties intend to deal with what will result from the treatment in the hall. That's good. It's true that the Center Party is occupied by the locals. In fact, local newspapers are among the most successful in the transitions you've seen so far. They have had a lower fall in advertising revenue, and they have been able to keep their subscriptions more clearly than many of the meaningful national newspapers have been able to do. Local newspapers have challenges in line with the rest of the industry, but in fact they have less marked the challenges than many of the relevant newspapers have. They are also struggling with some of the new things that are coming, not least related to the digital initiatives, but most localities today are part of a larger media house, and with regard to the technical platforms and technical solutions, they will be able to benefit greatly from the work of the collecting media house. Suffering if the challenges are great for the locals, I think the government parties should be careful to exaggerate them today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2640	A little comment on the claim that I had owed the Workers' Party and the previous government for redundancies in Medie-Norway: I didn't. I just told you what was some of the consequences of the policy that has been pursued, that it is now old-fashioned, and that it is time to change it. I have a question: the National Media Association organises the small localities around the country, and it seems that the representative has not heard what they have said. In fact, local authorities have not lost so many subscribers, but they are struggling financially to cope with future developments. I would like to ask the representative Arnstad, who wants to strengthen the city newspapers and weaken the local authorities: what should the previous government have done, and what should the new government do to ensure that the local authorities around the country can develop?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2649	It is good to hear that one was not responsible for the Workers' Party. But I have to say, if you think that the media revolution we're in the middle of, has something to do with the framework conditions, that you can blame any party in this room for the media revolution we're in the middle of, and that it has something to do with red-green politics – then you haven't understood what the revolution is about. It is so comprehensive, and it is driven by strong forces, both national and international. It is – I must say – far from party politics. As for the locals in the future, there's one thing we can do: zero VAT on digital media. The centre party is fully in line with the Christian People’s Party and wants you to have VAT-free digital media. It would be a great boost for all local officials in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2656	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2659	The press support case starts this time in the budget discussions between the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the government party last fall. The government, as we know, had a proposal to cut 26.5 million. kr in the aid schemes compared to the level in 2013. In the 2014 budget agreement, the bulk of the gross domestic product reversed this at the same time as one was also agreed to ask the government ‘to review the press support and assess different models to introduce a ceiling on the aid’. I give tribute to the government for following up the decision quickly, clearly and in an easy way. In particular, it is important for the media covered by the scheme. Of course, the background to the failure of the Left to participate in the cut-off in the press support is related to the principle of robust frameworks and industry performance when independent quality journalism is under pressure. The media industry is in the middle of a fierce, uncertain break-in time when new technology is becoming more important than the paper-based. Even if Norwegian media – and all credit to them for it – are in a world-class use of new technology, the same technology has almost ruined advertising revenue. 75 pst. of the digital advertising market in Norway goes to international giants like Facebook and Google, who don't exactly notice their own quality content. At the same time, paper advertising revenue in the period 2007-2013 has decreased by 30 p.m., corresponding to 2.2 billion. kr, and a further drop of just half a billion was expected in 2014. It's short and tough thanks to the media. Values that have been important to fend off since the press shock saw the day's light in 1969 are being challenged to the degrees: sensory and media failure, protection of no. The 2 newspapers, the meaningful national newspapers as real challengers to No. 1 newspapers, languages, freedom of expression, belongings, identity. The last two are not least important when we are now faced with a local reform where the role of local authorities will be central to new borders and neighbourhoods being perceived as strength and wealth as quickly as possible. The public's responsibility to facilitate media failures – not least independent quality journalism – is unquestionably heavier and more important than ever. And without making any big points about it: if we don't close it in a slightly ok way, the danger is that the market for commercial actors without motives other than profit maximisation will only grow in the coming years. The press release is one of several tools we have for consultation, and of course must be seen in conjunction with other measures, such as: VAT arrangements and co-ownership laws. It goes without saying that the press support will necessarily have to undergo periodic changes to be adapted to the media eye we have today and will have in the future. The left therefore supports the majority of the proposals by the government and the Committee proposes: platform neutrality – great – and dynamic thank-you. I can reassure the case manager that I have also read the Left's collapse selection program, and that it matches very well with a dynamic roof: ‘The production aid should be retained as an instrument for maintaining diversity in the press. Support must be platform-independent and more directly directed towards journalistic production because an increasingly complex society needs more competent journalism. The aid must contain a limitation on how much individual newspapers can receive.’ A dynamic roof ensures that we must have some kind of roof, while at the same time as the incentive, the dynamics of further development are in place. With the same reason, the Left is against a fixed ceiling, and even if it is reasonable on the spinal cord to buy the argument that a few players get a disproportionate proportion of the pot, it will be reluctant – and unfortunately – to break with some of the main principles of the scheme, exactly the ratio. The 2 newspapers and the national newspapers shall be attached to the swings. At the end I therefore announce that the Left will vote for proposal No. 1 from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2680	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2683	If we look at the alternative budgets a little bit backwards in time, the Left has been very eager on a static roof and maybe even more eager than the Right, by proposing $30 million. kr as the roof instead of 40 mill. kr, something that would – if we were to say nice – freed even more money to the locals, if you wanted it that way. The question is: what is different now, as the Left sees it, which means that a static roof can no longer act as a good distribution policy to the small, important local authorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2690	The answer to this question is: a new and larger cluster of large and large sized groups with significant resources to work on such an important policy area as the framework conditions for the media industry, among other things. that, in front of the Left's alternative budget in the fall, where we left the principle of a static crown cap before we went into negotiations with the government party, we had our own mini-vote with different actors in the media industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2695	The left is an opposition party and a constructive one. I've also read the party program to the Left. It's really very good: ‘The production aid should be retained as an instrument for maintaining diversity in the press.’ Furthermore, it says that the Left will: ‘Catch up what individual media may receive in direct press support’. Referenced to alternative budgets with a static ceiling of 30 million. NOK, maybe it would mean $17 million. for small localities – diversity in the districts. So today, the left-hand side says no to distribute seven million. to the local authorities in the districts. Is this batch programme to be considered as an indicative programme? Is there something that can be run clean and cultivated? In opposition here in Stortinget you can cultivate the party program. Is it to think of it as indicative now, should we deal with it, or is it something new?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2712	Without bothering to repeat what I said, I would recommend the representative to read the record from my main post and the reply to the previous reply. This is very similar to Left's policy on a dynamic roof, while another important point is made with the press support regime: the incentive and the dynamic of constantly striving to further develop both business models and ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2717	The representative, Mr Breivik, held as often before a reflected and good post, and it is tempting to say that if increasing resources to the Left's pool can contribute to such a sensible policy change, it may be worth it. But what I'm drawing to ask in a line was that it came up, both from the Central Party and the Christian People's Party, a debate on VAT, and I'm curious to hear what is left's view of development when it concerns the VAT regime for paper and digital newspapers.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2724	Actually, I thank you for a very appropriate question, as five minutes of speaking time was a little too short to get into different tools. We have a program formulation that, free of memory, says something like that there must be a law for equal value added tax on digital and paper-based media, which means that we will enter into a dialogue with all the parties in this house to get it implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2734	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2737	As almost all speakers have pointed out, there are very big and exciting changes in the media industry when it comes to how we can communicate knowledge, culture and news to each other. Many of the changes are fantastic and give enormous possibilities. Of course, I am thinking about the most extensive change, which is the introduction of the Internet and the digital platform, which allows a fast spread of news to so many more. I heard that a representative would give the Workers' Party much of the debt or responsibility for the closure of media companies in the last few years. These are the things I can annoy myself with with the Working Party, and some things I'm slipping over, but the Internet they have the stupid era or the debt for. That's my clear opinion. On the other hand, there is a trend that has contributed in many ways – and will continue to contribute – positively. What is particularly important is that access to knowledge, culture, news, sport and what it should be is so much bigger. Almost where you are – and not always in the present or where it happens – you can get that access. Something that's also important, but that might be a little less focused here, is the ability to participate in the dissemination of news yourself. You can participate in debates and communicate your vision. There are now newspapers that are driven by people themselves, who are actively spreading the news and who are established several places in the world. These changes also create some challenges. One important challenge, which is not the main theme here, but I think it's worth mentioning, is that the organizations that have largely built the media structure experience a strong pressure to use their resources on the rapid spread of short news – all the time updating and all the time getting out with new things, because there's a great demand for it. We see that the use of resources when it comes to deepening and being thorough tends to lose toward the fast. It happens for understandable reasons, but it gives the board of directors responsibility for development and to do something about it. The models we've been basing ourselves on are going through a big conversion. Some media houses are capable of doing this and have large resources to handle it. The NRK makes a lot of sense in connection with it. If I am not mistaken, VG already has approx. 70 pst. of its revenues from the digital. For others, there has been more trouble. The average locality in Norway still has about 90 pst. of its income from paper newspapers. That conversion must take one through. The debate we're standing in the middle of here is about how we're going to carry this on, but not in a way that destroys and takes with it many of the media houses around and all the skills they've built up. To come to the matter itself, it is my view that most of the changes proposed and adopted are very reasonable. Going to platform neutrality is completely open to public importance and over-maturity. I think a dynamic support roof is a sensible design, which limits the proportion of total consumption and revenue that a media house can get from the public. We have also come to the conclusion that the proposal we agreed to submit to the government is not the right one, and that we should not have a static roof. I think several representatives have argued well for that. It's an immoderate way of regulating the media failure, which doesn't work. It would be challenging if some media, which in a lack plays an important role, reached that roof. What's decisive is that they don't become too unilaterally dependent on getting public support, not if they take a slightly larger amount than what we're about to suggest. We will support the proposal of the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party. Finally, let me say that I look forward to a further debate on the broader media policy. This is an important part of it. Norwegian media houses may be in a more serious situation than in a very long time. We're not going to overdramatize, but I think there's a need for a wide and forward-looking attitude from the government and Stortinges in the further work. I hope we can contribute to the necessary steps to ensure good media failure, also in the future, in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2752	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2756	I want to ask the representative Solhjell something, because here things get a little twisted in my head, as I experience it. He can probably help me figure it out. Ten newspapers receive nearly three quarters of the total aid. That means it's approx. 120 newspapers distributing the other 25 pst. of the money. In all other debates on money, the party to the representative Solhjell appears to be busy protecting those who have little, and perhaps supplying themselves to those who have a little bit. So I wonder what's so different here. What is it that makes SV and the representative Solhjell not see that you could limit the support to some of those who actually have good soundness and satisfactory earnings, and give the money to those who are nearer to the edge of the stump and perhaps struggling? In what way it should be wrong, I have a little trouble understanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2761	With all possible respect, none of these recipients are among the heavyweights in Media-Noreg. There are other newspapers, and for that matter NRK, TV 2 and other media that are the heavy and big ones. What characterizes those who receive production support is that there are slightly different types of newspapers, but that depend on support for getting it together the media gap. There are some interesting newspapers that are very important, which we therefore think it is right to keep in mind when we make arrangements. Then there is a lack of many small local viewers who are also important to keep in mind. As has been said before, if there is a framework system, there must be an advantage within the frame or do something with a frame. In both 2013 and 2014, we have put forward proposals to increase the frame, which in my view has given a boost, both to some of the stakeholders who take a lot of cake, and to the many small ones, who are also an important part of the shortage. It would be high time!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2768	I don't often say that SV is a modern party, and I don't know if I should say it now either. But SV has now had a policy where you thought it was modern to think that you should put a static roof of 40 million. kr – when they were in government – and you might think it was modern to distribute to the small locals. Some small local viewers do it well, so it's not like everyone's going bad. But now it's all of a sudden modern for SV to give the most to them with the most from before and to let the little locals out there go over the end. Is this modern and forward-looking? I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2773	SV is modern, but the representative Stordalen's version of how he thinks that SV thinks we will be perceived did not sound so modern. I agree with that. It is modern policy to ensure that one has important, meaningful newspapers as well as a wide range of local guides. Otherwise, I must say that if one is to give the Right and the Advance Party a brag for at least one thing in this debate, it is that they have decided to go down with the flag to the top. I feel that we have had a great deal of demonstration now. But I want to raise them to the point of starting to predict the reality after the vote and figure out how to deal with the big challenges the media industry has – and maybe put this round behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2780	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2783	The media industry is in a demanding transition phase. Both the printing and advertising revenue for the paper newspapers falls dramatically and much faster than expected. The situation clearly gives cause for concern. The media industry needs to find its place in the new digital economy, find business models that can complement and eventually replace those that the newspapers have been based on for 150 years. I believe that Norwegian media houses have a unique opportunity to succeed in this. Few other countries have such a highly educated population, with a good economy, well-developed infrastructure and a great willingness to use new media services. The main government can therefore do so by providing industry with framework conditions and space for action for development and innovation. It is the industry itself that has to define its place in the new media economy, and the government cannot. However, the government will facilitate this, for example: by ensuring that public instruments are effective, targeted and non-discriminatory publishing platforms. We have therefore introduced the production grant for news and news media with effect from this year. The new scheme is platform neutral. That is, grants no longer depend on, or are intended solely on the basis of, paper publication. This is a very important change, because we now have an aid scheme that leaves it to the industry itself to decide how, and on which technological platform, the content is to be disseminated. We believe this will promote innovation and development and help to help the media industry through the digital transition. We see that there are still new trends in the media industry, and on Saturday we could read about a new bloom of digging journalists online in the United States. This trend has so far led to 5,000 new full-time jobs in different websites. A member of the board of Facebook and eBay leads to a new golden age for journalism, with a growth of between 10 and 100 times in the years to come: Maybe we've gone into a new golden age for journalism, we just haven't recognized it yet, writes Marc Andreessen on his website. One of the main aims of the production grant is to promote media pluralism. We therefore have a responsibility to ensure that the funds allocated to the scheme are used effectively. This can initially be challenging because the production grant is a framework scheme. If a large part of the framework is allocated to one or a few actors, there may be little left to the others. This does not promote diversity. Many people assume that the funds are spread, so that there are many different votes. In line with the proposal of the Government of Stoltenberg II, we have therefore proposed in the Storing Communication that an absolute grant cap of 40 million be introduced. kr per media company per year from 2015 onwards. The previous government has already notified a static grant cap to ESA in preparation for deployment. I would like to stress that the proposed 40 million cap. does not involve a cut in the overall framework of the press support. The funds released by individual actors hit the 40 million ceiling. kr, will not leave the scheme, but will be used for redistribution from a few to a large majority of recipients. Finally, I would like to recall that the proposal to set a ceiling of 40 million. kr is a continuation of a proposal from the previous government. In June last year, the government of Stoltenberg II notified ESA that the scheme would enter into force with a grant cap of 40 million. kr. After a hearing, they chose to maintain this proposal. That's what we've been doing. There are good reasons why not a few individual media should receive almost a third of the press support. I have noticed that the members of the Committee from the Workers' Party have now turned around in this matter, by the fact that these now go against a static ceiling. I think this is unfortunate, because we are at risk of individual actors getting a disproportionate share of the media support, with the result that we are getting less diversity for the money. I am otherwise glad that we now, with unanimous support in Stortinget, also get platform neutrality in terms of the production grant – that one is like either a conveyer of his message on paper or digitally.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2804	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2807	The Council of State represents a minority government, and we have heard in this Chamber before the Prime Minister has said that a minority government should listen to what is the majority in the Grand Duchy. Now we've heard the Council of State describe the proposal today as unfortunate, and we've heard her party trap Eidem Løvaa's announcement that you want to rematch the arrangement quite quickly. How will the Council of State follow up the decision taken here today? That's the one question. The second question is: we have heard representatives of the government parties have a touching concern for the local authorities. My question to the Council of State is: I Prop. 1 S Appendix 1 for 2013–2014 proposed a cut of 50 million. kr in the press stand. Would there be more or less money in the locals with the proposed cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2814	First of all, it's clear that the government will follow up the decision that the Storting is making, there's no doubt about it. I am dealing with the majority decisions that Stortinget imposes on us, so it will be followed up. With regard to the amount of the production grant, I believe that this is precisely why it is very important – regardless of the size of the production aid as a whole – that we had a ceiling in place. I think it would be wise to have a roof, because it would provide a better distribution profile as to how many media could get it. So I mean it would be a much better system really.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2821	I think I have to interpret the answer from the Council as if she also sees that a cut of 50 million. kr would mean that locals got less money. But my question concerns so far some instruments that have been discussed in the Chamber today. First of all, I could imagine that the Council of State commented on the additional proposal we came up with, where we want to see if there can be further restrictions on the withdrawal of dividends, and set other requirements for self-produced substance. I could imagine that it was commented on by the Council of State. The second is that it would have been interesting to hear whether the Council of State agrees with the representative Thomsen's proposal that there should be a common zero VAT for the media.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2830	To start with the last first: the government has delineated in its platform that it will work to get a low tax introduced. It's not zero moms, low moms are eight pst. We have that proposal for investigation, and the Minister of Finance and I have an ambition to report on the 2015 budget on both the scope of VAT and the time perspective for when it can be implemented. In fact, with regard to the proposal that has been promoted, several things have been introduced in the context of the new scheme – criteria that have now been set in relation to dividends. But if you feel that there is a need to make further assessments in this regard, I have nothing against asking the government to consider the proposal – I am willing to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2838	The introduction of low VAT on 8 pst. also on paper newspapers would be disastrous for the media industry today – catastrophic. The situation in the media industry has changed rapidly, and my question to the Minister of Culture is: What does the Minister of Culture think is the most important government can now contribute to ensuring robust media houses and to ensuring the good production of Norwegian journalism to Norwegian readers?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2845	I believe the most important thing the government can do is to facilitate the conditions for increased innovation and innovation for the media, and to give them the opportunity to equalise the platforms. This is why it is very important, what Stortinget is now supporting the government – the platform neutrality of production aid. It is also very important that platform neutrality is maintained in view of media consumption in the future. As I said before, we've gone down on the Sundvolden platform and we're going to figure this out, or we're going to work to get to a low tax. That's what the Finance Minister and I are working on. We are now looking at both the arrangement of the scheme and the details of transitional arrangements, and both the time and content of this will be promoted in the 2015 budget proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2850	As others have noted, changes in the media market are taking place very quickly. I would say that even the media houses are striving to have the overview, because the dynamics are so unpredictable. We know that one in very many of the new platforms gets a lot of things in place, but especially strives with the income side. That is why some of the debates we have today are significant – both on production grants and on dividends, which have been addressed here. What goes on with VAT is also important in the future debate. I experience a government that largely maintains the old positions, the old criticism – the old scepticism – against the press support. So they're meeting in the Storting today a majority that means something else. Does the Council not see the need for a new form of dialogue with the Storting about the changes that are taking place so quickly that we do not get... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2857	The number is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2860	I am very happy to have this debate in Stortinget. We have had a good debate. When we discussed the budget for 2014, we also had a round of these things. It is very important that this is well anchored in Stortinget. There is a broad consensus to establish a platform neutrality with regard to the production grant. It is a very important measure that we have promoted and that I am pleased to have broad support. I also hear that it has broad support to try to achieve platform neutrality in terms of VAT. There may be various discussions about the level of VAT – we will have ample opportunity to come back to that. We will take the initiative to promote this. We will return to the layout, scope and time aspect of the 2015 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2869	I am, in fact, a fundamental consensus in the direction that the Minister of Culture takes to describe what is happening, namely that the network represents a great opportunity for journalism in the future. It will be easier to reach many at a lower cost, and there will be many more possibilities of being a contributor, being a debater. But the conversion is tough to take too many. Politicians' task is to ensure that they are able to take advantage of the new opportunities – without the skills and everything else in the established homes, disappear – when business models change, and the sales of paper newspapers and advertising revenue go down. What I could imagine asking the Minister for Culture about is: apart from the VAT question – which has been mentioned here – and production support, does the Minister for Culture consider other possible political measures, either what costs money, or what does not cost money, to support the transition, to support the media industry in the difficult situation he is in now?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2878	First, I think it's incredibly important. We see that there has been a very high pace as these companies are exposed to. We see that in the various media there has been a dramatic decrease in both the number of annual works and the number of posts, but also that the advertising revenue has failed. This has accelerated lately. In the last eight years, there has been an alarming need to take the necessary action – you have wanted it done. I'm very happy that we have at least the opportunity to do that. Nor do I ignore the fact that, when it comes to introducing platform neutrality, there may be a need for transitional arrangements in view of VAT. It's one of the things that we're going to look at, and we're going to come back to in the context of the 2015 budget. I think it is very important to stress that this is a challenge that has been going on for a while – this is something that media have asked for a long time. You might have expected something to have been done with this before. I see that it has not been done. We're ready to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2887	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2892	There is little doubt that the production grant to the newspapers has contributed to the curious media diversity. Countries that have not had equivalent public aid schemes also do not have the same media. The law of the jungle has regulated developments. The strongest and most commercial actors have survived. The weakest — preferably value- and meaning-based — media have died. The Norwegian press support, which has now been extended to electronic media, has thus been a success. It has worked according to its purpose and given life to local viewers all over the country. It's kept alive in meaningful newspapers. It is the underlying reality of the matter that we are discussing now and which is specifically concerned with the size of the production grant, or whether – even more specifically – the production grant for the newspapers Our Country and the Newspaper should be reduced by 4 million respectively. NOK 3 million. kr annually. It will be a consequence, as you know, of the government's proposal to set a monetary ceiling on production aid for individual media enterprises. It is, of course, a mere coincidence that the proposal affects two of the newspapers that are each critical of government policy. Although such a cut isolated view may seem manageable, it is obvious that it weakens the ability to operate independent, critical journalism. In addition, it comes to the top of a dramatic loss of revenue for the newspapers. Then such a cut quickly becomes life-threatening. Both our Country, the Newspaper and a number of other paper and subscription-based media companies are dependent on no less, but more press support in the years to come, in order to survive. It is nothing new that the Right Party and the Advance Party are releasing the press support. It's almost been a tradition over the years. Over time, we have experienced a concentration of media power in Norway. It is in itself a concern and a threat to the diversity we want to characterize Norwegian media. In addition, when we find that the owners make profit demands, which weaken the quality and reduce the opportunities to run critical journalism, it in turn weakens the upshot of our media policy. It has hardly been given that the majority of people we have today are going to hold back a media policy that helps to ensure high yields for their interests rather than to ensure diversity and quality in Norwegian media.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2905	State press support was introduced in 1969, in the same year I was born – without drawing any further comparisons. The main objective of the aid was to maintain a differentiated daily press and maintain the local newspaper price. The aid scheme has been subject to some changes since then. Forty-five years is something – also for an aid scheme. And it's been a raging development, not least on the digital side, at this time. Several changes have been made, supported by a broad political majority. The production grant has been converted, from a subsidy reserved for paper newspapers to a platform neutral grant. A dynamic subsidy cap has been introduced. The total grant per year may reach a maximum of 40 pst. the operating costs of the individual media company – to ensure that the individual beneficiary does not become too dependent on the grant. During its period of consultation, the Stoltenberg Government sent out a proposal to establish an amount ceiling for the amount of annual grants received by a single media company. It was suggested that the roof should be set at 40 million. kr. This is proposed followed up in this case. It is therefore a little surprising that the Workers' Party is now, shortly after, against this roof. The aim of introducing a static aid ceiling is to ensure that support provides a greater basis for continued diversity of publications in the Norwegian media landscape. In the past, there has been a broad political consensus that the production grant should be directed more towards the smallest localities, on the grounds that these were particularly important for local democracy. Nevertheless, in recent years the large newspapers have appeared to have received more support, at the expense of the small ones. In my hometown, Nittedal, it is the locality Varingen that applies. If you haven't read it, you're not into what's going on. Around the country, there are many of these who share in keeping local democracy alive. A static roof could have released funds and targeted the system, so that several of the small newspapers had more to go with. Instead, the majority in this Chamber chooses to vote in favour of a mechanism which, irrespective of the size of the aid, gives more to those who already have the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2918	I am very happy that we have spent as much time on a topic as important as the media. But one of the things I miss in the argument from the Right and the Advance Party is that you see the different roles of the different newspapers. Local newspapers are important, but regional newspapers and national newspapers mean something else, especially regional ones. I come from Bergen, a town that is a little far away from Oslo, a city that has fought to get TV 2 outside of Oslo. We've experienced on the body and in the soul how important it is to the entire Medie-Norway that reality is something more than just what we see here from Oslo. Then we need strong environments, both economically and when it comes to critical journalism. It's the regional newspapers that have that possibility. But what we've seen now is that the number of newspapers in the big cities has gradually fallen. Then I think about newspapers. It weakens democracy. Research from England clearly shows that diversity and debate are being weakened in cities with fewer newspapers than others. I can mention an example from my own town, Bergen, with Bergen’s Official Journal and BA. We still have two newspapers, but we have seen that Bergen's Official Journal has gradually purchased all the local newspapers. It's editorial freedom, but they've co-ordinated the advertising market at the same time, and it's escalating BA gradually. Had we not had messians like Trond Mohn, I am sure that we had only had one newspaper in Bergen. What needs to be taken care of – I would have hoped that instead of presenting a pieceful and shared communication and presentation of media policy – this would be seen in a context. What I've experienced when I've been around the newspaper environments in Hordaland is that the Hordaland newspaper is the only one that has a printery other than everything that's centralized in Media Norway. Media Norway is still coming and pressing to buy up that printery as well. One has the advertising market on the one hand and the printing works, which are also involved in affecting costs, on the other. Seeing this in context is incredibly important. Indeed, production aid is the most important means of maintaining BA. In conclusion, I would like to say that I am extremely pleased that we have a majority in this Chamber, and that the Left and Christian People's Party not only contributes to the great democracy, but also contributes to bringing this forward, so that we get an even more exciting and modern media policy ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2932	Most people have said that, and I'm going to repeat it: yes, we say that the media industry is in a rather special time, a challenging time. There's a lot going on, and it's happening fast. I also want to give support to the representative, Aasrud, who said that they have some fault in it themselves. They've been waiting. But I understand that, because now evolution is happening so fast that they don't know exactly where to bet themselves. At the beginning of the 2000s, editors themselves said that by 2010 the paper paper newspapers would be gone. Now it's referenced from the hall here today that VG now says that the paper paper paper might be gone in a couple of years. It's hard to see how this develops, and it's challenging for the industry, but we're now taking important steps to help, with platform neutrality. The dynamic ceiling we've taken, but it's going to be new challenges for this industry that we don't fully see the scope of today, and that's why there's going to be more debates in the future. These new platforms offer new opportunities and certainly opportunities we haven't captured yet. There is a debate about whether the weekly newspapers should be included in the same scheme, and then we need to have objective and good criteria to include them. The paper newspapers that are left, that are active, look at new ways of distributing and establishing themselves. Looking at criteria and definition becomes important. I have noticed that the representative of Gullvåg is quite clear on what is needed here. They're the ones who criticize the government. This might mean that we have to change the press support according to who is in government. Now I have to say that I personally am not quite sure if I have found those who are so very positive to us politicians like that in the day-to-day, but if it is one of those I have experienced in the last few years, it is Our Land. Of course, it has to do with policies you've been working on. It's not the last time we're discussing this in this room. SV reiterated that at least it was honour to the Right, who went down with the flag to the top, because we fought like this in this case. I take that as a reward, of course, but we have to remember that the background for this discussion is here is that the previous government provided for a static thank-you. Several parties in the hall have been quite clear that they wanted it, and now they have turned around. Then this situation arises. At the end of this round – I had a lot to say right now – I would ask the Workers' Party to participate in making proposal No. 2 to a transmission proposal. There are several of the parties in the hall that could imagine. The Council of State has said she wants to work on it, but the wording of the proposal is a little upresis. We think the intention is being taken care of, especially because the council has said she will continue to work on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2947	First of all, just to clear it up, there's no rematch about the static roof. We fight for voting, and after voting we find ourselves with what will be the result – so that it is quite clear. As I said in my first post, the industry – as everyone else has pointed out – is in such a rapid change that having a system that only preserves what we have today is probably not satisfactory. Looking at how to set up the scheme in the years to come will probably be ongoing work. It's also important to bring with it a couple of facts. We are told that the press support has been such a success that we are the world's most newsreading people. This is true, but at the same time, our neighbouring countries Finland, Denmark and Sweden – which have completely different arrangements – have a much higher density of journalists. There are many more journalists per capita in those countries than it is in Norway, so it may not be rosy. What is perhaps even more important to remember is that most journalists in Norway work in newspapers and media houses that do not receive press support. Although it is approx. 3 500 journalists working in newspapers receiving media support — quite a lot, directly and indirectly, with VAT and press support, about 2.6 billion. kr – nevertheless, they are a minority in Norway. So a little comment to the representative Haukeland Liadal, who was concerned that the commercial market would take over. I think it says a little bit about how you might think a little bit differently in different camps. It is not that support is the goal or that support is everything. I have talked to several newspapers who say that a truly free press is a press that manages itself – without support. In meeting some of those newspapers, it is also gratifying to note that they are saying that it is actually an objective to get out of the aid scheme. At first they feel that they are really free and can put an even more critical spotlight on society around them. It is clear that some of the newspapers are critical of changes we want to make when they see that it can directly affect their own budgets. We experience that support may sometimes become a business model, and as it is written in the case documents, increasing spending will involve a penalty for actors who might succeed in new business models. That's not what you think. If you increase your spending, you probably also increase your earnings, and then the need for some of the support is likely to go away. Anyway, it's nice to see everyone realizes the seriousness of the media industry. Everyone realizes the challenges, and it seems that there is an understanding of how to set up the support, there is a need for an ongoing discussion about.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2962	There have been some questions related to this proposal. I would like to say that if there is a transmission proposal, I would like to examine the matter and also note that there are already many new provisions in the current legislation to ensure that the aid is used for the purpose. In terms of dividends, it's clearly expressed that we're now opening up so that dividends can be collected. It is in order to improve the ability of the small news media to raise risk capital but, at the same time, there is limited access to dividends to ensure that the legitimacy of the aid scheme is maintained and that the funds are used for the purpose. Then we have inserted into the legislation that no grants are given to media companies that have profits after tax of more than 2 million. kr in the last financial year or more than 6 million. after tax for the last three financial years. Furthermore, media companies with an average operating margin of more than 10 pst. in the last three years, including production grants paid, receive a similar abbreviation in the grant. Finally, I would also like to point out that the scheme contains mechanisms to ensure that the funds are used in line with the objective, for example. the profits of a medium shall be borne by the individual media company. It is therefore not possible to move the grant up to the parent company. So there's already a lot of rules in this. And then someone might also think about whether it's possible to input something about not being too high a salary. Then I just want to say that I assume that there are professional owners, who will provide a salary level that ensures good managers, but who also naturally take account of their business. I think it is unfortunate that the state should intervene in the formation of wages. But I also see that this of course is a dilemma that can arise because we give direct subsidies to the newspapers. But, as I said, if this proposal were to be submitted, for which a request has been made, I shall be willing to look at these different rules once more.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2977	The debate is coming to an end, and the debate has shown that there is a sector facing many challenges. We've been to some of them today. We've touched the media and the VAT inside. We've looked at the digital transformation, which might escalate even faster than what we've seen in recent years. Today we are discussing the press stand and the device on it. I believe the common denominator for what we experience in this area is that at least we can't have arrangements to preserve. In this respect, I agree with the representative of Mr Løvaas. It's been a year since we had a hearing out. We have heard one thing, and there have been other recordings. People have said that what was said in the hearing was not what we should adopt. I think maybe we should rather be a little proud that we were able to hang out with and make arrangements that hit the industry in a better way than what was said in the hearing. Then I'm glad that the Council of State says she will look at the additional proposal that we made in the Chamber today. I think that's the basis for looking at it. I also believe that there is a basis for seeing whether there is a link between wage formation and large state subsidies. It could also be about options and pension agreements, and maybe it should also be about looking at newspapers that have a lot of self-production. There may be several elements that should be considered in this case. Therefore, we can accept that this proposal will be converted into a transmission proposal. I have faith that the Council of State will come back and make the assessments we have here suggested.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2986	The representative Svein Harberg gets the floor – he had a lot on his heart I understood!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e2989	Thank you, President! And thanks to the Workers' Party. I think many of the things that Aasrud referred to now, we very much agree to look at. Then we can do it together. What I was not told about instead is the debate that someone has brought in today, which is not a topic today, but is related to what we are discussing, and that is VAT. One by one has been up here and fixed, and there was no bomb, that there must be platform neutrality in this too. That must be the goal. Then I register that one after another comes up, also from the government parties that have been sitting for eight years, and that have done nothing about it, and I say, now we have to bring down the VAT on newspapers. It's exciting. We in the Right have said that we also have that goal. We haven't told you exactly where to land. The Council of State has promised that she will come back to it. There's a lot of challenges in doing these grips because things have to be seen in context. It concerns aid and VAT. It's about how to deal with user payments, which is one of the key solutions for the media industry when I talk to them now – they need to get user payments on the web solutions they have, and they need to get advertising revenue back to a new platform, which is wide when they get good arrangements. Then we have to look at the argument to have a low value added tax. What does this trigger for others who should also have low VAT? How does it affect the entire VAT problem in society when we start to drag out one after the other of that system? How does that affect our economy? What about the literature industry, which is waiting for the same thing? What level should that be, and what transitional arrangements should we have? I'm glad some parties here today have clearly flagged what they stand for. I hope we can have a discussion in the future to find the good, holistic solutions to this. It's going to be challenging, both because it costs money and it's going into a budget, and because we have to make arrangements that take care of all groups in a fair and good way. It'll be an exciting debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3006	Then it looks as if everyone has emptied their hearts! Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3022	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose to be given an opportunity to give five lines of response to statements by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that the speakers on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3031	Through the examination of this document, No. The 8th proposal will address two issues: firstly, the issue of the Storting should be asked by the government to complete the extended pilot scheme with a new management system for outland motor vehicle traffic. If the vote is in line with the vote, this will be put to the vote. The second is whether we want the government to submit proposals to amend the law on motor travel in land and watercourses that implement local administration within national guidelines, contained in the law, and lead to any such legislative proposal. Everything indicates that this will be adopted. The most eye-catching thing about the debate we have today is that we have a government that until today has insisted on pursuing a policy that violates the law. That's what's fixed by the Civil Ombudsman and excellent experts on public law like Jan Fridthjof Bernt. The government has committed itself to trying to jump over the usual democratic rules of the game when they have chosen to use the Test Act to drive through the liberalisation of leisure rides with scooters. The framework for the experiment is the extension by the red-green government of a previously evaluated trial in eight municipalities to a trial scheme in 40 municipalities. When the government of today announced on 15 November 2013 that the planned trial scheme would be extended to all municipalities that had notified their interest in participating in the trial, the crime occurred. There were 108 municipalities that had applied for participation, so the trial scheme was decided to include so many municipalities. The Civil Ombudsman has stated that with so many participants in the experiment, this is outside the scope of the Test Act. I would say that it is unheard of by the government to refuse immediately to follow the Ombudsman of Storting in a case that is so clear, and that has such clear principles. I notice that the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has opened up a case, and I have noticed that the Tourist Association has notified proceedings in the extension of the Civil Ombudsman's assessment. I therefore demand that the Minister of Climate Change show the necessary respect for the institutions of the Stortinge when she goes up to the Stortinge pulpit in a few minutes, and informs the Stortinge that the government is drawing the illegal trial mechanism. Not responding to the Civil Ombudsman's letter will, in my opinion, be showing contempt for the Stortinget. Despite the opinion of the Civil Ombudsman, we have not received a majority in the Committee to close the extended pilot scheme with a new management system for outland traffic. It's also alarming. So the question of changing the law on motor travel in the fields and watercourses, so that you get more local administration. Then I will first spend some time remembering why we regulate snowmobile driving. I have previously stood here and talked about the fact that I want my daughter to share in the blessing of nature – listen to the sound of skiing that breaks the thin Easter class on the way to Torfinnshorgi on Grayside. Now my daughter is lying down listening to the debate, but since she is only seven weeks old, probably the father is more disappointed with the council than she herself is. But quiet nature is a unique quality in Norwegian outdoor life. That's when you can hear nature's own sounds. Being given the freedom to create noise limits the freedom of many more people to experience quiet nature. The freedom of all people to experience nature without noise is an important reason why we have strong restrictions on the ability to drive snowmobiles in Norway. This has been the case since the law of motor travel in the fields and watercourses was adopted in 1977 because then Minister of Environmental Protection Gro Harlem Brundtland saw that pleasure driving with scooters had gone over the stick and stone. Two thirds of the population — a solid majority of the population — will not have unnecessary snowmobile rides in nature, showing a mapping by the Environment Directorate. The study shows that resistance to scooter driving has increased from 2012 to 2014. Today's administration has secured this, because people know what they have, and they fear what they get. Therefore, with the exception of the governmental parties and the Central Party, all the parties wanted to make clear the leadership of the ongoing legislative work. The ban on driving in protected areas and wild areas is all agreed upon. But where the SV, the Workers' Party, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party believe that there should also be a ban on the laying of scooter loops in important open-air areas and areas that are particularly important for some species of birds and animals and other natural handicaps, and that the scooter loops should not be a problem for residents, cabins and other outdoors, the government parties and the Central Party say that this and other things should only be taken into account. [[President clubs]] It is much more wanting and too weak to provide the necessary protection of the right for both this and the next generation to experience the blessing of nature. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3057	I must ask the representative to respect the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3060	In Norway, we have a fantastic nature that people are happy to use – a nature that we take care of through laws and regulations. For a long time now we have had a discussion about motor travel in the field. Today, we have quite restrictive legislation through the law on motor travel in the fields and watercourses. In fact, the purpose of the law is to protect the natural environment and to promote well-being, and to regulate motor travel on the basis of it. Therefore, it and the regulations are quite strict with regard to the use of snowmobiles, and say that the use should be essentially what is called the necessary movement for recognised useful purposes. Everyone sitting in this room is well aware that, at regular intervals, in fact quite often, there is a desire to soften the law and allow more use of scooters, also for pure pleasure driving – a desire for more liberalisation. I am in favour of strict but sensible legislation. The red-green government proposed to replace the pilot scheme we had had since 2001, with a test that would cover up to 40 municipalities upon application. The experiment should provide us with knowledge of how we can best manage motor travel in the field. It wasn't a liberalisation or an opening, it was an attempt. So we know the story of the government change and the government's controversial extension of the attempt to include everyone who wanted to join in, which will open up to far more extensive use of snowmobiles than we have today. So it's a purely policy change, without the Storting getting a case to deal with. Then I record that in my letter to the Committee, the Minister for Climate and Environment writes that the attempt is intended to provide a better basis for experience. But in the press release, which the same minister sent out on 15 November when the case came, we can read what this is really about for the government. There, the Council of State states that the experiment was intended as a follow-up to what is on the government platform, and was undertaken to strengthen local self-government – i.e. to introduce local government – and that the ministry started work at the same time with a letter of consultation on changes to the law on motor travel, which also includes snowmobile runs. The Ombudsman wrote in his opinion on 12 June: ‘This may indicate that there is a wish from the government to make the substantive change to the Motor Travel Act permanent.’ So we want to implement a policy change in the name of the Test Act. It's not okay! Or let me say it a little bit differently: it's serious. The Civil Ombudsman's statement is quite clear that the government is going across the Test Act. He writes that the scope of the trial scheme is outside the legal framework set by the Test Act. It is probably difficult to send a clearer signal. Several of us had probably expected that when the Civil Ombudsman was so clear, the government would also support the proposal to terminate the arrangement. But no, together with the Center Party, they have a majority to ignore the Civil Ombudsman's statement. I think it's quite dry. It's all right to want free snowmobile rides or a ban if you're in favour of it. In the Workers' Party, we are too more local government if we have clear national guidelines included in the law. But that is not what this is all about. The point is that the change has to be made through a change in the law in Stortinget – not by cutting policies through the Test Act. That is also why we in the Labour Party want to get a case back and a proposal for changes to the Motor Travel Act, so that we can get a proper treatment and get the discussion about what kind of management we want in the future. The motor racing debate engages many, including myself. There's a lot of commitment both to and against a decoration of the law. We're going to take that seriously. But that is also why the matter has to be dealt with properly here in Stortinget. We're not going to run an experiment that ends up becoming a current policy, but the Storting has decided. I hope the government can reason on this matter, but so far there is little evidence to suggest it, and it disappoints me greatly.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3084	It is positive that there is a broad majority who wish that out-land motor travel be managed locally within strict national guidelines. It will strengthen local self-government in Norway, and it is positive. It is essential that the national guidelines contained in a new law are well managed. For the Right Part, this means that there should be a ban on laying loops in protected areas and national wild areas. Furthermore, it is essential that motorised outdoor movements are not a nuisance for the rest of the outdoors, for natural diversity, for residential and cabin areas, or for cultural and cultural heritage. It is in line with the regulation in today’s trial scheme, and it was the same regulation on the basis of which the trial scheme was based, among other things. the red-green government promoted and was obviously satisfied with, although it sounds like – at the representative Holmås – that this was not the case. When all these considerations are to be taken into account, the ability of municipalities to map areas and important cultural and natural values is required. Fauske is an example of this. After the area of the municipality was surveyed, it turned out that 93 pst. the area of the municipality is not suitable for the establishment of scooter loops. On the remaining 7 pst. of course, the approval of the landowners must be obtained before a scooter loop can be established. In other words, this is not a release. Neither the pilot scheme launched by the previous and current government nor the legislative amendment proposed by a broad majority in the Grand Duchy is so. With regard to today's trial plan and the Civil Ombudsman's statement on this, I assume that the government is making a quick and thorough assessment of it. This is in line with the Civil Ombudsman's own opinion, where the government is just asking to make a new assessment. So it's not the Storting that's been asked to do this evaluation of the trial, but the government. Therefore, we do not vote in favour of the proposal to instruct the government in this matter, but we trust that the government itself will be able to make a good decision based on the Civil Ombudsman's opinion. Then the representative Eidsvoll Holmås says that two thirds of the country's population will not have scooter loops. If that's right, the representative Eidsvoll Holmås doesn't have to worry that there are going to be many scooter loops that his daughter will over time be disturbed by, because then you will decide locally that you don't want such runs. That's what's so great about local self-determination. The knowledge is evenly distributed in the whole country, and I am absolutely sure that, locally, good evaluations of these issues can be made within the national guidelines to be laid down in a new law, and as a broad majority, the government is asking for a return to the Grand Duchy as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3097	It is a positive and good day so far for the Progress Party in this matter. I know that in both the Progress Party, the Center Party and the Right, there are actually an incredible number of people who have long wanted to liberalize motor travel to some extent. But we have to remember that the world is not made so that this government takes an initiative that municipalities that don't want scooter driving will be forced on anything. On the contrary, the situation allows municipalities to apply for a voluntary test scheme based on local democracy according to strict national guidelines. It's a little funny to hear that the Workers' Party is standing here and talking about that they want local self-government too, but when you look at the guidelines that they put up, you can start to wonder how much is left of local self-government: ‘Guidelines should prohibit the laying of loops in protected areas, wild areas, important open air areas and areas of particular importance for certain species of birds, animals and other natural diversity. Furthermore, the scooter loops shall not be a nuisance for cabin life, occupants and other open-air life.’» In addition, noise, outdoor handicaps, natural diversity, housing and cabin areas, cultural memories and the cultural environment must be taken into account. The rest must be left to the local government. It's not big that's left then. The representative Eidsvoll Holmås claims that the government is violating the law. The Labour Party's King-Political spokesman, Kolberg – he claims that the government is violating the law. I have said in the past that there is a wind blowing across the country that obviously means that some people believe that the decision is taken at some office in Stortinget. I do not know if it is in the office of Eidsvoll Holmås, in the office of Kolberg, or if it is in the office of Storberget. That I dare not say, but de facto it is in this room decision being made, and it is and has been a majority in this room to soften up in terms of scooter driving for some time. I even come from a county that has had snowmobile rides for more than 25 years. Where some claim that snowmobile racing is a curse and an abomination one should avoid at all costs, it is such that the vast majority of the population in their own state and North Troms have incredible pleasure in being able to use snowmobiles in winter. Don't ruin it nature, people have an incredible well-being, and it's incredibly polite to hit the scooter people out there. There is a positive of all, from the minimum of two to three years to grandparents of both 70 and 80 years. So that freedom and opportunity should not be allowed to be enjoyed by anyone else. If you use snowmobiles with a sense of mind, it's actually a good thing, and it also helps an incredible number of people get into nature and use nature in a reasonable way. I can't see what's so terrible about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3119	On 15 November 2013, Minister for Climate and Environment Tine Sundtoft sent out a press release that the government is implementing and extending the pilot scheme that allows municipalities to establish snowmobile loops for pleasure driving. The extended testing scheme shall apply for the period 2014-2018. The scheme, initially limited to 40 municipalities, is extended so that all municipalities that have notified their interest will participate, a total of 108 municipalities. In parallel with the implementation and extension of the experiment, the Ministry has started work on a letter of consultation on changes to the law. The government intends to implement a legislative change during the current majority period before the trial is completed and final evaluation report is available. The Christian People's Party is critical of such a procedure, because it disregards a central part of the law on motor travel in the fields and watercourses, without a legislative amendment being presented and adopted by the Stortinget. Central interests have not been heard. The government thus achieves that a desired legislative change can take effect with immediate effect without the prior legislative change process. Significant uncertainty has been created as to whether the extension of the test scheme is in line with the intention of the Test Act. Several independent lawyers and Stortingen's investigation department have shown that the trial is not in line with the law. The government’s argument about the legality of the extended trial scheme is not convincing. I will refer to the Civil Ombudsman's statement on 12 June, where he writes the following: ‘I have come to the conclusion that the scope of the pilot scheme is outside the scope of the Test Act. The Ministry should therefore review the pilot scheme and, in particular, the need for the number of municipalities.» I believe that the government now has to place the decisive emphasis on the assessment that the Civil Ombudsman comes with. If the government does not, the Storting must ensure that the Test Act is practised within the framework of the Test Act. The Christian People's Party believes that the government should set aside the experimental system and concentrate on developing and presenting as soon as possible a proposal to amend the law on motor travel in land and watercourses for treatment in Stortinget. The Christian People's Party concluded in the previous ageing period that all Norwegian municipalities should have the same opportunity as the eight test municipalities have had since 2000 to increase local self-government over motor travel in the outland. Motor travel shall only take place within defined areas and within strict national guidelines. Increased municipal autonomy presupposes that municipalities assume their responsibility for safeguarding important natural and outdoor interests. Over the period 2000–2005, a pilot project with expanded local autonomy was carried out in eight selected municipalities. The municipalities that have been involved in the project have been allowed to establish both tourist loops and recreational loops. The experiment has been ex-post evaluated by the Norwegian Institute for Natural Research on behalf of the Ministry of Environment. The evaluation shows that all six intermediate targets for better motor traffic were fully or partially met in the experimental municipalities. In fact, the population of municipalities without snowmobile loops was more plagued by noise than the population of municipalities participating in the testing scheme. I would like to remind you that an important overall objective of the test scheme was that the purpose clause of the Motor Travel Act should be better achieved than today. The objective paragraph is based on three main elements: overall societal vision, protection of the natural environment and the promotion of well-being. The Planning and Building Act allowed the creation of their own loops for recreational purposes, which was done in some municipalities, in others not. I believe that the evaluation just shows that municipalities are able to make these balances in a good way, and that it is fully possible to maintain a restrictive national motor vehicle policy – even if an open-ended local self-government and open to local variations. The Christian People's Party therefore wants to open up to increased local self-government – with the same purpose and limitations as existed before the experimental scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3146	We're really discussing two things here today. They tend to get a little bit entangled in each other. On the one hand, we are discussing the question of having an increased local naval steering system in the field. On the other hand, we are discussing the issue of the pilot scheme and the Civil Ombudsman's opinions on it. The two things should be kept a little apart, because the first is about the material content. I think it is very gratifying that such a broad majority today facilitates the provision of increased local maritime governance in terms of leisure trips with snowmobiles. I think that's a sensible decision we're going to make, and I'm glad that so many of the parties are behind it. Then we have slightly different opinions on which national guidelines should be used for the increased local maritime governance. But I have to say that the disagreement is not very profound either. All batches will not be able to operate loops in protected areas, in national wild fauna and flora. The Centre Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party also state clearly that one must take into account both outdoor life, natural diversity, the cultural environment and cultural memories, as well as housing and the building environment. I think there are very few who want some free slip of snowmobiles in nature. The centre party doesn't want it at all. That's not what this is about. This is about the fact that municipalities will be more able to decide whether to build snowmobile loops. I believe that the municipalities are fully capable of doing so. And I think, as the representative of Astrup, that the wit is fairly equally distributed across the country, and that local democracy will be able to take a greater share of those assessments. I am convinced that the municipalities will not open up to unwise driving. I'm pretty sure the municipalities are going to manage this opportunity and the authority in a sensible way. That means that leisure is probably going to be regulated through certain routes, one will take into account the landowners and the consent of the landowners, one will protect areas that are vulnerable to animal life, and I think this too will lead to a more stringent control of abuse and unwise driving. It's the substance of this case. I have to tell the representative Eidsvoll Holmås that I also think silence is a quality. That's what we see in the Center Party, too. Silence in nature is a quality. This decision is not going to be a threat to the fact that you can still experience silence in nature – it is going to be an opportunity for local democracy to make decisions responsibly, and I am absolutely convinced that they are able to do so. Then we have the other side of the case, which concerns the trial plan. There I find after the previous articles that there is reason to look at what the Civil Ombudsman says, and what he does not say. The civil officer says: ‘I have come to the conclusion that the scope of the pilot scheme is outside the scope of the Test Act. The Ministry should therefore re-examine the pilot scheme.» The Civil Ombudsman has not said that the Storting should take a decision today to terminate the trial scheme. There is no claim from the Civil Ombudsman that Stortinget will intervene with the government here. There is a requirement from the Civil Ombudsman that the Department carry out a new review. We in the Central Party fully agree with that. The Ministry should review this scheme as soon as possible. It is no secret that we in the Central Party would believe that this system should not continue – it should be replaced by a new law as soon as possible. That means we don't ignore any of what the Civil Ombudsman says. We follow his recommendation to the point and the point. So that's the recommendation that the department is going through it. But it has to happen in that way that one first presents a new law, and then terminates the trial scheme. A reverse course will lead us back to a condition that is more stringent on motor travel than the red-green government provided, when we proposed 40 municipalities in the trial scheme. The kind of right-wing room that one then gets – or as tight a regulation as one then gets – I don't suppose is in line with this government's policy, nor is it in line with what the red-green government agreed to, and certainly not in line with what the Senterpartiet wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3168	Motor travel in the field can be a very disruptive element of a natural experience. In winter, noise and disturbance can affect game, which is particularly vulnerable in the cold season. Many species and vulnerable natures must not be subject to increased stress, but it would be precisely the case if outlanding scooters were to escalate. The damage is reinforced by the short-range and easy access to otherwise poorly affected natural areas by means of scooter driving. A single motor vehicle or scooter need not, in isolation, cause any damage or inconvenience, but the sum of many will create a greater environmental impact. We in the Left believe, as is the case in the law, that motor travel in the outfield should, as a general rule, be prohibited in Norway – as is the case with the law of the day. At the same time, it is important that the legislation does not prevent the use of scooters or motor vehicles for the purpose of commercial and commercial transport. This will provide constructive input into working with a new motor racing law in the field. In the argument to release loose scooter driving in outland, government parties rely on results from a pilot project carried out in several municipalities. Once they read the results of this, there's an unusual way to think about it. In many ways, the attempt has not been successful, since there was actually more traffic and noise in the experimental municipalities. We will therefore warn against changing the legislation, without new and up-to-date knowledge being acquired first, thus also pointing to Section 8 of the Natural Diversity Act on the knowledge base. The main purpose of the Government's test scheme for amending the Motor Traffic Act is to empower all municipalities to establish snowmobile loops for pleasure driving. All municipalities that want to do so have now been allowed to participate – almost a quarter of all Norwegian municipalities. The problem is that this is no longer a testing scheme. That's then a change across the current law. I fully agree with the representative of Marit Arnstad that we are discussing two pages here. One is the content of the Motor Travel Act, and how we're going to make the changes in the frame on it. The Committee's proceedings also show that there is a disagreement here. On the left, we believe that there must be a strict framework for what municipalities should have the power to assume their responsibilities within. Several have mentioned the list of protection areas, and others, that we need to take into account. Then it's the other side that's about the relationship to the test law. Here I believe there are two different things, and it is important to distinguish what is jus, and what is politics. But there is no doubt that we need to clarify the issue of the test law first, before we can go further with what the government now wants to do. We have put forward a proposal here, because there is nothing to suggest that the government has been willing to stop the experiment, despite the criticism that has been made, not only from the Civil Ombudsman, but also from the Storting's own investigation department. There have been various lawyers who have criticised the way in which the trial has been conducted, and there is nothing to suggest that the government has been willing to make changes based on that criticism. The Civil Ombudsman has now also made his assessment, which clearly concludes that what the government has done is not within the framework of the Test Act. Although there is no majority here today to stop the experiment, I would strongly ask the government to make a thorough, reassessment, for the question of whether this is within the law or not must be a purely legal issue. Although, as the representative Henriksen pointed out, one has a government that wants to have an extension of the local authority, a political extension – now it is important to point out that there is no one who wants to change the law of Nord-Troms and Finnmark – it is important that the process be brought into good democratic framework. If you want to change a law, you have to do it in a formal and correct way, you have to send proposals for changes to the law to be consulted, so that all organisations and stakeholders are heard, so that the Storting can make its decisions on the best possible basis. My request to the government is now to make a thorough assessment, stop this and listen to the objections.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3191	Whoever takes a ski trip down through North Sweden a few days, will see three things. One is that what was a good tourist hut network, similar to what we had in Norway, is gone and destroyed; the other is that one meets no skiers, and the third is that one meets only on a huge number of scooters and scooter runners. What is the difference between Sweden and the fact that in large parts of Norway we still have a nature that in winter is mainly filled with skiers and a brilliant tourist hut network? That difference is the law on motor travel in the field of 1977. Then the magnificence and government had enough overview, enough insight and sense for values that need to be preserved, to adopt a law that preserves a very large and almost unique value of Norwegian society, namely the simple open-air life in nature available to hundreds of thousands, yes, millions of North people throughout the country. This was forward-looking policy. Then, of course, local rights are important for all parties, and that is important for the Greens. However, pushing the local right of access as an argument to open up snowmobiles, while claiming that the sense is evenly distributed, the right decisions will be made, the responsibility is present, etc., is ignoring the fact, which lights up in our eyes, that the number of snowmobiles in Norway has exploded. In Finnmark and Nord-Troms, snowmobiles have largely taken over the use of nature. In one state after the other south of Norway, for example: In Telemark, where I travel a lot, there are now many snowmobiles in nature in winter, that's what actually happens. Of course, this has to do with the fact that the scooter interests are very strong. They are backed up by very strong commercial interests, which have one economic interest, namely increasing the number of scooters. That's also why this is a field where it's up to the Storting to take care of something that's a basic national value, and not to let go of the responsibility that you have to take, by claiming that everything is better solved through a local self-government, which we have all the knowledge we need about the outcome of. The government claims to carry out a trial. The previous government also claimed that it was going through an experiment. Well, then do a try and sums up! And the summary is clear: we know the result, and the result is that traditional open-air life is displaced by and degraded by snowmobile use, and that displacement and deterioration is irreversible, because it is terribly difficult to get the traditional open-air life back where the snowmobiles have got footholds. Therefore, after this not particularly worthy round we have had with a so-called snowmobile attempt – it was not a good idea from the previous government, and the current government variant was even worse – to hope that now, by getting this back into a legal process, we actually take responsibility in Stortinget for maintaining a unique Norwegian value, namely the right to travel in the free nature, without being disturbed by pleasure driving with motor vehicles, which you can do all sorts of places other than in the free nature, but which you should not do in the free nature. So it's a fact that most people don't want this, so it's amazing that a party like the Right, which is kind of going to be a value-preserving party, yields for sloppy snowmobile interests, contrary to something that there is certainly also a majority among Right voters. Then you have to bring with you one last thing, that snowmobiles pull off off-road vehicles. Those who like to drive snowmobiles in the winter want to – and we know that – drive ATV in the summer. It's a fact, it's just counting, especially if you're interested in running trials. I hope that reason comes back to this room when we discuss the final bill, and that Stortinget takes responsibility for Norwegian values.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3209	I am pleased with the broad consensus in Stortinget that municipalities should manage more motorised outland traffic in order for this to take place within national frameworks that safeguard outdoor life and natural diversity. I understand those who are concerned about more motor travel in nature. The issue today, however, is who will decide whether such driving should take place. In the first place, the question is whether it is right to decide this directly after a bill, or whether we should go through a wide-ranging trial under the Test Act. The attempt by the municipal authority to establish snowmobile loops for pleasure driving was initiated by the previous government, where SV was also involved. The current government extended the attempt from the original to include 40 municipalities to all municipalities that had notified their interest. Today, the test covers 104 municipalities. I have met many rapporteurs, including the Central Party rapporteurs from Hedmark and the Workers' Party rapporteurs from the Nord-Trøndelag, who have wanted to welcome the attempt. But there has been a lot of concern about the trial, especially about whether the trial is legal. The Civil Ombudsman concluded on 12 June that the scope of the trial is outside the legal framework of the Test Act. The Ombudsman considers, inter alia: that the Ministry of Climate and Environment has not carried out an adequate assessment of the need for the number of test units. Although the conclusions of the Civil Ombudsman are not formally legally binding, the government takes the opinions seriously. The testing scheme has been thoroughly investigated in the departments and the conclusion has been that the scheme is governed by the Test Act. We still believe that the attempt is legal. At the same time, we place considerable emphasis on the fact that an overall Energy and Environment Committee in its position asks the Government to submit proposals for changes to the Motor Traffic Act as soon as possible. When a broad majority has made such a clear order, we will of course follow up. I am concerned about having a clean and efficient process, therefore I have given two clear messages today: The experiment shall be interrupted Work on legislative changes is now under way. The Government intends to send out a legislative amendment proposal at the hearing in mid-July. The government will be able to complete a proposal in the autumn so that it can be adopted in the Grand Duchy before Christmas. The experiment has already given us valuable information about the processes in the municipalities that we can use in the legal work. The legislative proposal will be designed in such a way that the law provides a clear framework for the determination of snowmobile loops. I am concerned that the law provides a good balance between the need for natural diversity and outdoor life and the need for municipal autonomy. The government is leading a trust policy. We have confidence that municipalities will balance the different considerations. We suggest that scooter loops can be planned after a broad local process that follows the Planning and Building Act, similar to other land use. Until the adoption of any legislative amendment, municipalities may not take valid decisions on snowmobile loops. There will be no obstacle to municipalities continuing to plan for snowmobile loops, so that they are ready to take decisions on this as soon as any legislative changes that will allow it to be adopted. This of course means that the process has been followed by the municipalities, and the considerations they have taken correspond to what the Storting finally decides. Believe it or not, I'm pleased with the great commitment that has been around motorized travel in the outland. There are many who do not want to hear motor noise when they are on a ski trip, a tour or a jogging trip, and it is good that it is communicated so clearly. It is not only we in the government who get it with us, but also local politicians around the country. Politics is about balancing different interests, and it is important that nature and outdoor life also have a speaker. I think we can all agree that municipalities should take into account all their inhabitants, including those who want to enjoy nature in peace and quiet. Therefore, it is also in the municipality's own interest to have control of the motor travel. Therefore, it seems to be a good idea that municipalities should decide even more within a national framework. That's why I think it's a good idea that the government is now starting work on the law change. I believe that both the wit and the natural joy are evenly distributed throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3242	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3245	First, I want to thank the Council of State for the interesting signals she gives to the Stortinget today. I would like to ask the Council of State about the press release she sent, which I also included in my post, where she said that the trial scheme was part of ‘work to follow up the government platform’ and that the attempt was made to ‘strengthen local autonomy’. I wonder what the Council of State thinks about that press release. Does the Council of State today believe that this attempt is not about following up the government platform and is not about strengthening local self-government? And if she doesn't think it's about that, why did she send it out in that press release? And – to complete the confusion here – if she means it today, does she think it is within the scope of the Test Act? Because it's like, for example, has been the discussion here today, where does the test law limit go in terms of policy-making? What is that law for?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3250	When I sent out that press release last November, it was to inform you that we extended the pilot project that the previous government started, in order to gain more experience in the light of the fact that, as I said, we were going to do the law work. We thought it was under the Test Act. We still believe that it's within. The important thing for us is to facilitate municipal autonomy here, that the municipalities themselves are going to decide how this is going to be. That is what we are now doing through a legal work that we are now starting to do, so that the Storting can adopt this before Christmas, with the aim that the municipalities themselves will decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3255	I think it is a positive signal from the Council of State that she says that the law work is being sent out to the hearing in July. That's good. But it becomes very important when local authorities cannot make valid decisions along the way in the legal work – but continue planning, as I understand it, as they are already doing – that the treatment of the law takes place as soon as possible, and that one does not here risk getting a piece of legislation that goes out on time because of different circumstances. It is important that a case be brought before the Stortinget as soon as possible, and that it be dealt with as quickly as possible, so that the law can come into force. Can the Council of States confirm that this will happen quickly and that we can expect both adoption and entry into force before the New Year?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3260	As I briefed on, we are sending the bill to the hearing in mid-July. There is one thing that is reasonably informed about and committed around, so we thought that it must be possible to cut the consultation period from three months to ten weeks, that it is sufficient in a matter that is so enlightened. Then one can come back to Stortinget at such a time that it would be possible, if Stortinget himself would, to adopt this before Christmas this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3265	I also think the signal is positive. Although the Council of State maintains that it is considered that one is within the scope of the Law of Trials, it is positive that the contents of the Civil Ombudsman's criticism are still being followed up by the fact that no local authorities will now be able to permit scooter loops until you have a change in law. Then you can discuss whether or not you've gone beyond the legal framework, there might be a disagreement, but that you follow up the Civil Ombudsman, I think it's very positive. But then to the legal process itself. It is important then that we get a normal treatment, that everyone is given the opportunity to promote their views, and even if you focus on local self-government, it is also important to have national interests in each municipality. Then my question becomes: does the Council of State think this is of important national interest, not only nature protection, but also outdoor life?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3272	I meant what I said in my post, that it is important to take care of both interests. I believe that is also in the interests of the municipalities, to preserve those who want quiet nature, and those who want to run snowmobiles. Now we are sending out a bill at the hearing, and then I expect many good legislative proposals to be put in place, where all interested parties will make representations. I think we should take it from here.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3277	I think it is good that the Council of State stops the attempt. I think it's wise of the Council of State, and I think it's good that she brings with her the message to Stortinget when we debate this here today. At the same time, I would like to point out that I find it problematic that the government doubts that it believes that this attempt was within the framework of the Test Act. This means that, in my view, it is absolutely necessary for the Committee of Inquiry to go further in its assessment of this very issue, because we risk that this is a method which the government could use in other matters, for example. in the case of the price of agricultural properties, where the centre party has previously engaged itself in the opposite direction to what they are doing in this particular issue. But let me ask you a question, which I see the government parties haven't gone into the notes. This is based on the need for a good basis for the monitoring of outdoor interests. Can the Council of State promise that it will be in place before the law is passed?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3284	Now we send out a bill at the hearing, and then we get the necessary input into it, so that the Storting has a proper basis for adopting a final law. We have a lot of information about the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås taking up, so it is important now that it becomes a good process, and that is what we are now adding up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3290	It is a fact that since the adoption of the Motor Traffic Act in 1977, the number of snowmobiles and the amount of snowmobile use in Norway has exploded. In 2012, 26 800 exemptions from the Motor Trade Act were granted. That was 95 pst. of the cases referred to. That was an increase of 12 pst. since 2011. That's the reality of the municipal administration of snowmobiles. There's little evidence that that crop won't continue. So the question is, does the government at all have any idea whether you want to limit the growth of snowmobiles? Or are you just open to taking care of the interests as they are expressed in municipal decisions, with the result that you might get in the long term with even more snowmobile rides in Norwegian nature?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3295	The aim of the bill is not more motorized travel in the outfield, but more local self-determination. I trust that the municipalities are conscious of their important management responsibility. Municipalities must take into account all their inhabitants, including those seeking tranquillity in nature. In fact, I am convinced that the municipalities will do so if they are given increased authority in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3300	This means that the cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3305	It is a happy day for the Progress Party when we can present today a plural setting where the Stortinget asks the government as soon as possible to submit a proposal to amend the law on motor travel in the fields and watercourses that ensure local administration within clear national guidelines contained in the law. This is a matter for which the Progress Party has been working for many years, and now we have a system in place for local democracy to choose a preferred snowmobile loop in their respective municipalities. The experience of the trial project shows that it is possible within a planning regime where interested people can make recommendations and points of view, thus helping snowmobile enthusiasts to run their snowmobiles, while others will be able to use nature in their own way. In many places, both forms of use of nature can be achieved without conflict. We'll probably also experience municipalities that decide, after a democratic process, to refuse to set up a scooter loop, because it doesn't work in a good enough way. And so it must be. Today we see that there is a labor-intensive and bureaucratic work being done in each municipality through dispensation solutions – the representative of the Environment Party Dei Green, the figure of 26 000 – because one has not wanted to have the solution that is being outlined today. This means that the majority’s action is with and facilitates and improves the municipality of Norway. We have a magnificent nature and a cultural heritage in the landscape that is an important foundation and an advantage also for the travel life nation of Norway. Scooter loops will probably serve the needs and aspirations of travel industries in several places, including: the mobility of disabled persons and others will be able to get into the wild through this measure. I'm very happy about that. At the same time, the plurality also encourages the preservation of important common natural values and does not want to run there. In sum, there's a good solution that lasts a lot more care. When we see the conclusion of the Council of State in relation to the problem of the Civilo Ombudsman, I am pleased that the Council of State is so clear and today it gives a signal that the pilot scheme will be terminated, but that we can go for a system in which we will have a law in place to take care of local knowledge and let the municipalities themselves determine the use of their land.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3322	When there's motor travel in the field we're discussing, I'm, who's from Finnmark and owns a scooter, automatically stigmatized: I'm too free, I'm for bigger engines and I want lead in the gasoline, I like fractions, and I hate skiers. That's not true. This is a very good day. The fact that I am from Finnmark, and that I own a scooter, has nothing to do with this case. It may be an indication that I know what I'm talking about in this case, but it doesn't have to mean it. This is about local democracy. We could have discussed the Motor Traffic Act too, but fortunately we don't have to do that – thank you, Council of State! – for it we can engage in a democratic process later and follow the democratic processes and rules we have here in the country. It is a very special debate when the representative Eidsvoll Holmås is unsure whether we know enough about outdoor life in Norway. Do we know about the outdoor interests?, he asks the Council of State. It says a little about the attitude of the local democracy of the representative Eidsvoll Holmås from SV. Actually, there are 428 municipalities. In all these municipalities, there are committed local politicians, who are also involved in sports and outdoor organisations, and who are well aware of how the outdoor interests operate in the municipality and what needs to be taken into account. That's what this is about. It will also be very special when the representative Rasmus Hansson will not give responsibility to local democracy, because local politicians may be affected by special interests. With Rasmus Hansson's background, I must conclude that Hansson believes that it is the privilege of national politicians to be influenced by special interests. I haven't heard worse. The fact that we now get the law of the Storting is what was notified over eight years under red-green rule. A revision of the Motor Travel Act was then to be made, but it was moved and trained. There are many happy, quiet, anonymous workers' party representatives in Stortinget today, because at last they get the law they went and promised us over the previous period – it will probably come, it will come. Kåre Simensen probably has trouble not letting the smile go about today, and he can travel happily home to Alta and say that finally it happens now as I promised you for four years, now it finally happens. This is a good thing. You have taken democracy seriously – you bring the law to the Stortinget. You get a law that takes local democracy seriously – municipalities can get opportunities for outdoor interests, for skiers, for people who are happy to be outdoors, and for nutrition and leisure activities that include motorists. It's going to be fine.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3339	The left side of Norwegian policy has always been ‘good’ to criticise the district policy of the Progress Party. They have even claimed that we have no district policy. But a good and active district policy is not just about how much public tax money you want to spend on subsidies and support for farmers or other industries. A good district policy is also about pursuing an active and positive yes policy towards business and travel. There is no doubt that snowmobile racing contributes positively to growth and value creation, and that more people get into nature, including disabled people. It is for this reason that the Progress Party is now pleased that several municipalities can develop this business and that more snowmobile enthusiasts get their way with their hobbies. In Sweden, there is very good experience in pursuing a more liberal snowmobile policy than has been practised in Norway. Estimates show that snowmobile activities generate several billions of turnover for travel and business. It is important that we, as politicians, do not restrict Norwegian municipalities' opportunities to and Norwegian travel life wants to compete with our Swedish neighbours. In several border municipalities, including: Våler, Åsnes and Grue – just to name a few – has been a strong pressure for many years to adapt Norwegian rules more to Swedish rules. Fortunately, the cry for help from these border municipalities is about to be heard. The experience from Sweden also shows that there is no negative impact on nature. After all, you're just driving on snow, and you're driving on your own tracks. Today's government and, fortunately, a large majority in the Grand Duchy do not want a full release, but it is important to allow local democracy to function by allowing municipalities to decide for themselves, within regulated standards. We want to give this opportunity to municipalities and businesses in the districts of the Norwegian country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3352	There was a slightly different debate than I expected. On the one hand, I, as the proposer – although we do not get a majority – am pleased that we are getting a pass for the attempt to stop and that that discussion is in a way over. We've also established the relationship between accumulation and government, and that the test law has a function, and that it has an encirclement that makes a change as big as you put up here, you can't do it. And then we're going to have to disagree about what you really think about it. It is not essential that it is now stopped. So I know that it's good to get through, but at the same time, the struggle will have to rise, because now comes the real discussion about what frame we're going to have in the future. Because it's probably a little bit of a mistake, as it's made here, that you have a broad majority who are now eager to get a new law. What is stated in the committee's comments is that it is accepted that there is a majority who want a new law, and then it has been important that that legislative process enters a democratic framework and that we get it as quickly as possible to the Parliament. I'm glad. Here I think the government has tried a shortcut through the trial scheme. It has proved not to be possible, and then we have to go the usual way of changing the law. And when it's designed, I hope the government takes on the broad resistance to increased motor travel that's in the population. All surveys show that. So I also think it is important that the work focuses on not only that we can have as a starting point that it should strengthen local democracy. Also in the Left we are for a strengthened local democracy, but it must not be that what we end up with, in a way is the sum of individual decisions in the municipalities. We need to take a clear national responsibility for safeguarding national protection values. This applies, of course, in the context of classical nature protection, but also to national protection values designed to ensure open-air living and to safeguard traditional open-air living. And you have to take a national responsibility that makes there are large enough areas where there is no increased motor travel. You also have to be careful that you have systems, with County and others, that make this happen. So from the left side, I look forward to working on the problem. For me, it's more important that the process is thorough than just the pace it's going in. So I think it's the thoroughness and running the normal processes that are right here. And then we have to be able to create a regulatory framework that will provide greater opportunities for municipalities, but at the same time a strong and powerful framework, which will ensure quiet outdoors in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3363	I would also like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in dealing with this matter. It was the Civil Ombudsman's letter and decision in connection with the Turist Association's complaint to the trial that has helped to resolve this situation, and that has led the Council and the government to decide to put the attempt to die. That's good. I would like to pay tribute to the Tourist Association for the work they have done to protect all of us who are concerned with the interests of the outdoors. I also think it is natural then that we who are behind the setting, that is, the first point in the setting, which is to ask the government to consider stopping the experiment, should perhaps not promote that proposal, since the council has already said that she should stop the experiment. We need to clarify what is behind this setting, towards the vote tonight. But I'll basically recommend it. However, there is a need to make a few comments on the debate. One is Tor André Johnsen, who's pulling out Sweden. One must have a rather special attitude to district policy if one believes that what Sweden is doing is good district policy. But I notice that he therefore believes that they are pursuing a successful scooter policy. The second is what was pulled out by other representatives, who thought it was important that things should not be decided in Storting's offices, it is my office or the office of others. But the problem with this matter is that it has not been decided in the main hall at all. This case has not been pending treatment in Stortinget until today. It's been determined in the government's offices. And there is no «all power in this room» whose affairs are contrary to the Test Act, is determined in the government's offices instead of in this room. But I am pleased that we are now bringing this back to normal procedures, and that we are getting the progress in the legal process that the Council of State has announced, and then we are going to be around and contribute as much as we can in the debate. I just want to underline the one thing that I brought up in my reply to the Council of State, and that is the question of planning tools to have an overview of outdoor interests, and in and of other interests. Governments are well - known that it is a problem that a good deal of natural diversity has not been well documented enough to take it into account early enough in planning processes. The same applies to outdoor activities. I think it is crucial if we are to take care of the outdoors, together with all the other interests that need to be taken care of, that we have a good planning tool when we are going to create scooter loops in many, many municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3378	I join the cheerleader that the attempt is stopped, and that there is a quick legal work that we are also looking forward to. Then it's amazing how the Council of State totally ignores the reality when she insists that only the municipalities can deal with snowmobile policy, everything will be fine – so when we know that the result of the situation we've had now has been that snowmobile use has increased dramatically, and that the dispensations have increased dramatically. And then the conclusion can only be one on that, and it is that we have to expect that the legislative work and the proposal that is now coming quickly from the Council of States must contain the national sanctions that ensure that we do not in 2015, 2016, etc. receive an additional 12 pst. increase in the number of exemptions and a corresponding increase in the use of snowmobiles. If that's the meaning of the Council's answer, it's fine, if it doesn't mean that the government doesn't take responsibility for the overall development in the use of Norwegian nature, and I hope that's not right.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3385	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3388	Just briefly two things: one is a question to the council, and it's about what's been taken up by others in posts here, whether you expect this to mean more or less scooter driving. I believe that the Council of State must have an opinion as to whether she thinks it is okay or not with more scooter driving. When the time came to tighten up, in 1977, it was because you had a wish for less scooter driving than what was then the case. When you open up more local motor travel, you cannot be completely neutral as to whether this leads to more scooter driving or not. But I suggest that we come back to the debate when we are going to adopt the law. Otherwise, I have clarified with all the parties behind the vote that we are drawing the proposal – if possible, President – so that we do not get up to voting to ask the government to do something they have already warned them to do. That's II in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3396	It's noted. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3412	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3421	The Committee deliberations on proposals by Pål Farstad and Terje Breivik show broad agreement on the importance of the framework conditions for the smallest enterprises and businesses. It is such that the welfare society in the future will depend entirely on the innovation and competitiveness of business. Good framework conditions for the establishment and operation of new activities are important. The OECD stated in March this year: ‘In order to maintain growth in the standard of living as petroleum production falls, a thriving entrepreneurial culture is needed to discover and exploit opportunities and attract risk capital and other resources’. The government is working to ensure a good overall framework for business, and they are in the process of simplification. Many of this work will have positive consequences for individuals and small businesses. In addition, the Scheel Committee will continue its work on a growth-promoting tax system. However, the Committee believes that there is a need for a review of the framework conditions for individuals, precisely because of their specificity and their potential, so that they can contribute more to future growth and value creation. The form of company is the most common form of company in Norway. The rules of the Share Act are therefore of great importance to traders in the country. The main weight of the limited liability companies is small and medium-sized enterprises. One must therefore look at these companies' needs and ensure that the rules of the Share Act are well adapted to these companies. Even if the Shares Act is to maintain and balance more and partly conflicting interests, it should ensure that the rules do not impose unnecessary burdens on the companies. In the government platform, we can read that the government will develop and simplify legislation for small and medium-sized enterprises. In addition to the representative proposal from the Left, the Right has proposed that the Government consider whether a regulation establishing small enterprises as compensation for personal companies as a legal entity should be introduced. An example of such an organisation may be a micro-AS. It should be a company organisation which has the advantages of a limited liability company but which at the same time has framework conditions and requirements which make it as simple as possible to operate such a company. The idea of creating a separate stock law for small companies or micro-liability companies has been discussed before. The Board of Auditors proposed in 2009 to introduce the micro-liability company which owns a form of company with a correspondingly simpler share and accounting law. In the EU, the Microfinance Directive was adopted in 2012. It gave companies with a turnover of less than 5.6 million. kr the ability to operate an account in accordance with simplified rules with very few note information. These companies also do not need to produce an annual report. This Directive is not yet incorporated into the EEA Agreement, but there is good reason to believe that it will. During the last ageing period, there were several Document No. Eight proposals that contained today's theme, which the Labour Party and the Center Party then voted against, but which they support today. That's what I thought was very, very nice. It gives the government a good mandate to propose changes to the laws and framework conditions that can strengthen the innovative capacity and competitiveness of the smallest enterprises. I refer you to the motion for a resolution tabled by a joint committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3458	Long-term employment and well-being are inseparably linked to value creation and innovation. In the future, the welfare society will depend entirely on business being both innovative and competitive, as well as on the need for tax revenue. An important part of a good industrial policy is to pursue a defenceful economic policy and to provide business with stable, good and sustainable framework conditions. The Labour Party will represent the Left of this initiative to focus precisely on the framework conditions for small enterprises. Simplification is an important tool for small businesses. Trond Giske as Minister of Industry focuses on simplification, and the government of Stoltenberg set an ambitious goal of simplifying its business burden by 10 billion. kr by 2015. The result was that after two years there was a simplification measure for over 5 billion. kr, and the simplification work was as far as the government change was concerned. I think it is very good that the Minister of Industry, in his letter to the Committee, highlighted the measures taken by the government of Stoltenberg, among others. to reduce the share capital requirement for a limited liability company from NOK 100000 to NOK 30000 and to allow the unsolicited auditor of companies with less than 5 million. kr in translation. This has resulted in significant cost reductions for our businesses. But I have noticed that the government of Solberg wants to look at Sweden, and has announced that a rule board will be set up according to the Swedish model. Sweden has almost three times as many businesses as Norway. During the period 2006 to 2012, the Swedish authorities have reduced administrative costs for SEK 6.8 billion. kr. The government of Stoltenberg has, in a third of this time, reduced costs for more than 5 billion. kr. So a good advice to the Solberg government: Learn from the government of Stoltenberg and the acting Minister of Industry Trond Giske. Action and concrete action are more important than the establishment of new governmental councils and selections. The same is true of the recent review of Innovation Norway, which was evaluated and debated in this Chamber as late as in the period 2011–2012. In this area, too, there is a need for action and no more government spending. Today, the government also served simplification measures for about 9 billion. kr. Use the power to implement many of these measures, not to build a new bureaucracy. I am pleased that the Committee agrees that there is a need for a holistic review of the conditions and framework conditions for individuals with a view to improvement in all areas. Several good measures have been taken, but for the benefit of individuals and their potential, it is important to have this holistic review. We are also all agreed that the main step towards achieving more start-ups and growth businesses is to ensure significantly better access to risky and competent capital for entrepreneurs and innovative growth enterprises. The main weight of the limited liability company, which is the most common form of company in Norway, is small and medium-sized enterprises. In some fields, the AS Code may be more oriented towards larger companies; it must only be incorporated. A micro-AS will be a form of company that combines the advantages of the limited liability company and the need for the very smallest enterprises to have the framework conditions as simple as possible. The financial liability is limited to the capital invested in the company and does not include the persons who created the company. The use of a general accounting principle will also make tax authorities’ control tasks easier and safer. But one also needs to find the balance between the required reporting and documentation requirements and a micro-AS that is as simple as possible. The Committee therefore asks the government to consider and how it can develop a law that establishes the small enterprises as a separate legal entity and that distribution should define framework conditions that are specifically adapted to small enterprises. We look forward to having this presentation presented and to having a good discussion in this room that will lead to a flourishing business community where entrepreneurs are given the opportunity to do what they are best to create new businesses and jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3492	For me, as in approx. eight years – but since as a member of the Financial Committee – together with my co-representatives in the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have fought for this and several times have been voted down by the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre, it is with great satisfaction that I can stand here today – after the enlargement elections last year, where there was a new majority in the Stortinget – and record that all these four parties also now agree that a comprehensive review of the framework conditions for individual enterprises is to be carried out. What is even more enjoyable is that there is now a unanimous nutrition committee behind this – that is, there is cross-political consensus. Then we'll probably see in a few minutes whether the Socialist Left Party, which is not represented in the Committee, is still opposed, or whether they are too. At any rate, we can see that there is a broad majority in the Stortinge behind this. In other words, similar representative proposals have been discussed here in Stortinget several times in recent years, for example. in the context of the proposal for a representative from the Left, Document 8:85 S 2009-2010, which also called for an ‘overall review of the terms and conditions of individual enterprises’ – even then wholeheartedly supported by the Progress Party. This was something we in the Progress Party proposed just under a year earlier in the form of a proposal for a representative, Document No. 8:74 for 2008-2009, to obtain a case on ‘better rules for traders and entrepreneurs operating individual enterprises’. I would also like to recall the proposal of the representative in Document 8:50 S for the 2009-2010 of the Progress Party that ‘a large-scale Communication on framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises is to be drawn up’. There are also other proposals, including: from the right, which in recent years has been about improving the framework conditions for entrepreneurs, who have been under consideration and have been debated here in Stortinget, but who have been downgraded. Today it's different. Now that an overall review is to be carried out, including for tax purposes, I hope and ask in this context that the government in particular considers investment funds for individual enterprises – this because for individual enterprises it may be a challenge that profits are taxed continuously as personal income, while a shareholder is taxed only extra at the time of distribution. It has to be taken into account that other Nordic countries have similar arrangements in place. Many stakeholder organisations, such as: The NHO, the Business Association, the Founding Association, Norskog, the Norwegian Forest Association, the Norwegian Confederation of Bonds, etc., have mentioned this. These include: pointed out that individual enterprises came out poorly of the tax reform in 2006, where the tax burden was increased. In the context of the promotion of this representative proposal by the Left, I think it is good that the Economic and Social Committee has accepted the proposal well. But I would point out that we are actually on the offensive and have asked the government to investigate even more that will benefit the country's founders. I am talking about the proposal where we ask the government to consider whether a regulatory framework should be developed that establishes the small business as a separate legal entity, including that. shall take account of the need for simpler rules by small enterprises, which do not impose unnecessary administrative burdens, and equal treatment with regard to social rights, taxes and charges. Norway has reason for this. I refer to the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the annual accounts of certain types of companies with regard to micro-enterprises. There has been a change some years ago whereby Member States are allowed to exempt micro-enterprises from the obligation to prepare annual accounts. It is for each EEA Member State to decide whether the exemption for so-called micro-enterprises is desirable for national reasons. The Directive intends to facilitate the reduction of the administrative burden on micro-enterprises. It therefore provides for simplified framework conditions for micro-enterprises. However, in order to ensure adequate protection for any investor, the micro-enterprises under the Directive should continue to be subject to obligations under national law in order to keep an overview of business transactions and the financial position of the companies. This Directive is very EEA-relevant and acceptable. The entities subject to reporting are set out in the Accounting Act. The Accounting Act does not provide that micro-enterprises as defined in the Directive may be exempted from the obligation to draw up annual accounts. One depends on the government looking at this, and we can be glad that the nutrition committee is now giving the green light to investigate all of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3518	First, I would like to thank the Left, who has addressed this important proposal. Small and medium-sized enterprises are enormously important for the value creation and well-being of our country. Better organisation for these companies will provide enormous returns in terms of jobs, value creation and well-being. New and established enterprises are very central. Without them Norway stops. It's the good ideas of individuals that generate the future values of our country. That is why we must hold them, and we must lift up those who dare to bet. By supporting innovative and entrepreneurs, we invest in the future. Individual enterprises have long been disadvantaged in terms of taxes, social rights and access to capital. This is a bias that needs to be corrected to ensure that the bet threshold is not too high. The Christian People's Party aims at Norway being one of the most innovative countries. Innovation is very important. We know that innovation is an important driver for the development of society. Developing new and innovative ideas is often useful for more enterprises than for those developing the ideas. It is also true that the development of ideas often involves greater risks than what may be available to investors. That's why it's also important to take a look at systems around this. Furthermore, we know that SMEs often account for half of the value creation in Norwegian business. They're innovative, they're adaptable, but it's demanding for them to survive and grow. Five years after start-up, it's only 30 pst. of the holdings remaining active. Repeatedly we have heard the following from the companies about claims to the authorities: Give us less square work, smarter taxes, simpler everyday life and smarter interaction between public and business. We are pleased with the review that is now announced by the government. We wholeheartedly support whether the proposal has been promoted by the Left, and the committee position we are now considering, because we believe this is important for a future innovative business in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3537	The well-known slogan of the Centre Party is to use the whole country. For us, it's about giving people the opportunity to live and live where they want, but also about policies that allow us to use the resources that exist in the country to create values. Our industrial policy is based on an interaction between the private initiative and also an active public – state, state and municipality – effort to facilitate the launch of new activities. The Centre Party believes that it should be as easy as possible to engage in business in Norway, irrespective of the type of company it chooses. Knowing that the vast majority of Norwegian enterprises are small enterprises, it is important and positive that an overall committee supports the proposals today. A lot of good simplification work was done during the previous government. Exemption from the audit obligation and reduced capital requirements are the two most important. Of course, we also want to welcome new measures. We have today got a menu from the Norwegian Accounting Foundation to choose from. I hope it can be caught up in the work that is now to be done. But we've noticed that far from most of what comes from the government, it's good for business. In particular, it is industry in the districts that appears to be this government’s mound. I can mention: the historic increase in the diesel tax introduced the principle of continuity in the case of generation change – which affects many individual companies hard that the government proposed in the autumn cut in SIVA, which fortunately did not result from a weakening of the permit law; These are some examples of this government looking outwards in the country when cuts are to be made. The central party will have a different policy direction. That debate must be taken when the review and evaluations we are asking for today are completed. The essential part of the Centre Party is as follows: The social security network for self-employed workers needs to be strengthened. The tax system must capture the fact that personal ownership involves greater risk and responsibility for the individual. Public efforts to support entrepreneurs have to take into account that Norway is a diverse country with considerable differences between regions. The centre party is concerned that the simplification measures should be effective. In addition, we are committed to cultivating foundations, including through people's educational pathways. I clearly understood that there is a political impact of the proposals that the Committee is in favour of. In her letter of reply, the Council of State said that she would continue to address the issues that are central to many self-employed people. Now Stortinget asks the government to conduct an overall review and come back to Stortinget with it. We look forward to getting that matter processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3584	Norway needs more entrepreneurs, more who want to start on their own, more who are taking the opportunity to succeed. That is why we from the Left have promoted this proposal for a representative and are pleased that we have been able to see through to all the essential points of the proposal. The founder has been and is important to drive Norway forward. It is not the largest and established companies that are lifting us into a new era of new solutions – it is entrepreneurs and small businesses that have come up with new ideas, new products. It is those who have driven Norway to a significant extent in the future. In a Norway where the petroleum industry is so dominant for the economy and business, it is particularly important that we make good use of it so that more people will and dare to start on their own. In order to maintain growth in the standard of living when petroleum production falls, Norway needs a thriving entrepreneurial culture. It is necessary to identify and exploit opportunities and attract risk capital and other resources. At a time when oil revenues ensure well-being and prosperity, it is a paradox that precisely this state seems to have become the greatest obstacle to the entrepreneur and the innovator. We take the value creation for granted, and real policy focuses mainly on distribution and allocation. Understanding long-term employment and well-being related to the creation of new enterprises is far too limited. Unfortunately, today’s system does not stimulate interest in starting on its own. On the contrary, in individual enterprises the self-employed person personally bears the financial risk to the enterprise. He/she has, among other things: weaker rights to social arrangements. This cannot continue, because it slows down rather than promotes new start-ups, which are necessary to ensure sustainable development in Norwegian business. The left wants an innovative Norway. We want more people to start their own business. Improvements in the conditions for starting and operating our own business are necessary if we are to achieve this. Keywords for us have been, and are: non-tax treatment, tax-free continuing education, regulatory simplification, reduction of the form field, a targeted government instrument, secure support schemes and access to capital through tax incentives for investors who might be investing in new businesses. I would like to thank the rapporteur and the other committee for their good and constructive cooperation in dealing with the matter. I think it's done a good job in the Business Committee in the preparation of the case and now expect the government to work quickly to put in place schemes that make it attractive to start for itself, and that stimulate new start-ups. Norwegian economy and Norwegian well-being need more bones to stand on. Now it has to be done. We're impatient.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3599	Now you get the right if SV supports the recommendation or not. It'll be exciting. Self-employment is most attractive for entrepreneurs, for enterprises where the family is mainly the labour force, or for enterprises with few employees. When one has a high risk, many are added and the company is growing, there are many who decide to form a limited liability company. We have to have company forms that are different in character, custom phases, sizes or direction, but it should always be attractive to start up something new and be a founder. The entrepreneurial spirit shall be part of the Norwegian territory. I would therefore like to pay tribute to the proposers to raise the proposal for a representative. At the same time, we are all probably some people who say that these are challenges. The red-green government made several moves that strengthened the social dishes, among other things. maternity leave, parental leave, etc., but there is still a part that remains – as a relationship with illness, occupational injury and unemployment – that is worth looking at. SV therefore supports the recommendation. At the same time, we need to ensure that individuals do not abolish the normal employment relationship. It is easy to see many individuals involved in social dumping. There is a certain development in which different companies, such as: temporary agency or media centre in Norway today benefits from individual employee benefits instead of having their own employment added, possibly hiring out such labour. Such a transition to individuals makes it more difficult to follow up health, the environment, security, personnel development and development of competences, and not least creates an unsafe working life. It's the entrepreneurial spirit we want to cultivate, not a speculation in people's work. Safe jobs also create better workers. A glare leads to more people having to come with their hands, with the consequences it has for self-esteem, initiative and creativity. We therefore need to cultivate the good individuals with good frameworks, and then we have to strangle the bad individuals. There's a big SV want, not petty speculation. The representative proposal does not address that issue, and I urge the government to take it further. SV will be a janitor in that question. So to the remark about micro-AS: we thought the idea is good. The rule is a little bit so that it's easier for the bigger ones. This can actually be said to be a problem in general in Norway. Let's see, for example. in other areas such as reporting requirements from municipalities, organisations, researchers, etc. Norway can never be the best at being big. We're just too small for that. The Norwegian state of affairs must be based on being the best as small as possible. Then we have to make arrangements for small actors and not always want the small one to grow up. A family business that produces amazingly good dry reindeer heart in Finnmark, doesn't need to have world reindeer trees and mass added as targets. They may be happy to find their little niche, meet the geese in Brooklyn or Upper West Side in New York, and live on as a small but powerful enterprise. So I would love to be there, and I read with interest the remark about micro-AS, but I have some questions about him, because I don't understand him. The idea of micro-AS is that one should have the same risk as a corporation – it is the values that stand in the company, which should be a challenge, not the values that the person owns. An entity shall also have financial reporting as in a limited liability company, so that the tax authorities have control and make it easier and more secure. One should also have the same flexibility as that of a limited liability company – that is what I used to say from others, earlier suggestions from people who are in the hall – to be able to take out money. The only exception to a limited liability company is that the reporting should be simplified in the context of the annual reporting. So the question is, is it just the revision that is the difference between micro-AS and macro-AS? And if that's the case, we haven't come up with anything very groundbreaking. I could get some input on it. SV supports the recommendation, and we are very excited about what the government thinks about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3622	Small and medium-sized enterprises account for a large proportion of enterprises in the Norwegian economy — the vast majority of enterprises in Norway are small and medium-sized enterprises. In order to increase the competitiveness of Norwegian jobs, it is important that these enterprises have good and predictable framework conditions. The government therefore works for companies, entrepreneurs, owners and employees to spend more time creating values and retaining more of the values they create. In line with the Sundvolden Declaration, we are working on concrete proposals on how to simplify and improve the framework conditions, while at the same time taking into account important societal considerations. The government's objective is to reduce business costs by complying with laws and regulations by 15 billion. kr in the year before the end of 2017. In the government's political platform, we have, among other things, established that we will develop a simplified regulatory framework for small and medium-sized enterprises, further develop ALTIN and have the principle that information should only be reported once, and make more public services available on the network. Representatives point out in their proposals different issues and issues relating specifically to individual enterprises. The government is already well in the process of simplifying measures that will benefit small businesses. We have started a review of the basis for the fees in the Brønn Island Health Registers and a review of Innovation Norway. In view of the terms and conditions of individual enterprises, it is appropriate to include some of these considerations in other processes that are in progress or will be undertaken, including: the review of the instrument and the simplification work. It is due to a wide variety of relationships with individual enterprises. As far as social rights are concerned, I fully agree that an overview of the relevant arrangements should be made to illustrate how they work overall for individual enterprises. Here it is natural that other departments concerned are also involved. As far as tax matters are concerned, I would like to stress that equal treatment in only parts of the tax system is not necessarily in the interests of small enterprises. Instead, the tax system must be considered in its entirety, as the Scheel Committee has been set up to do. An assessment of how individual entities come out for tax purposes and any proposals for changes must therefore await the suspension of the Scheel Committee. However, I would like to start an initial assessment as to whether it can be possible to develop a sensible regulatory framework that establishes the small business as a separate legal entity and defines framework conditions that are specifically adapted to small enterprises. The aspects of which proposers are particularly concerned will be taken into account, and the natural question is what regulation is actually necessary for these smallest companies. This will also benefit individual enterprises. Large enterprises with large administrative units will often be able to adapt more easily to existing regulations and framework conditions than small ones. I therefore agree with the representatives that it is important to have a special focus on small businesses when designing rules and framework conditions. At the same time, I am concerned that any adjustments should not be made at the expense of the benefits that creditors and shareholders have from the orderly conditions that a common legal requirement gives us. We have a great room for improvement, and we're working on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3649	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3652	I have a very simple question: I wonder why the government wants to build up the bureaucracy by introducing a rule board?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3657	The principle is not to build up a bureaucracy; the principle is to follow closely that each rule introduced, each regulation introduced, is actually necessary. We know that simplification is demanding. So we're going to simplify, we're going to abolish rules and regulations, but it's always going to come up with new ones. And having an independent advice that's going through this, and that gives advice and recommendations, I think I'm tricked. Then we haven't said that we're going to copy the Swedish model; we've said that we're going to do it our way, in a sensible and effective way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3662	I just want to challenge the Council of State to say a little more about how the government sees themselves as coming back to Stortinget with the decisions that lie in this matter. Will a person return with an overall case of individual enterprises and smaller enterprises, or will a person come with them on an ongoing basis? And if it gets the way I think would be the best thing, that one comes up with an overall case that affects all of these areas, in order to prevent them from being fragmented – what time frame does the Council of State see separately?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3667	I actually think we have to do both, because we have to work on this continuously. The work cannot be stopped by waiting for the Scheel Committee to set up. So I think we both have to work continuously and report to Stortinget about the work that is being done, and make a more overall assessment when we have received some of the things that I have explained here are in progress. The review of the instrument is another such matter. So I think we have to do both, and we're impatient, so we're doing the work and we're going to deliver this as fast as we can.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3674	I wonder how the minister sees'micro-AS'? For I believe that there has been a dialogue between the Committee and the Minister in this area, and that when one now has a unanimous committee behind it, the Minister has begun to make a point about it. So then my simple question is, what makes a difference between micro- and macro-AS and individuals?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3681	I haven't made up any notions of these things. We assumed responsibility for company law in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries in the New Year. I am concerned that such laws and regulations are designed in a thorough and wise manner, because it has such an enormous significance. So we've said that this is something we'll review. This is an idea that has been up several times and that we want to look at, and we have to get back to the design of it. In addition, the EU has introduced a micro-accounts directive, as others have mentioned, for the accounts of small companies, and the Minister of Finance has said that they assess the Norwegian side of the scheme. So we just have to get back to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3688	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3693	The debate shows that there is a huge body of evidence that we should have a good framework for our businesses, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, and not least for the innovative entrepreneurs who are out there in society. We also got some comments along the way here. Torgeir Knag County asked questions during the debate, but also during the line change with the Council of State, and got answers there. When it comes to the organisation of micro-companies, I also see that this requirement for share capital is a matter that the government will evaluate. And then I'm looking forward to the Scheel Selection coming up with its recommendations. It is the case today that many self-employed entrepreneurs complain that they pay far more taxes than they would have done if they had been in a limited liability company. So I hope this is part of what the Scheel selection will look at, and that we can get out of this. In addition, there are both depreciation rules and other things that it might be wise to look at, and that is a difference between running a company and being self-employed, because I understand. That's the explanation. In addition, I would like to make a little clarification and it was my own post: I said that it had to develop a code that established small companies as compensation for personal companies, and then I thought that this was not about being self-employed and having a personal company should be phased out, but that it had to be added. There was only one precision from my side.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3704	Both the post and the reply to the representative Heggø show that she and the Labour Party have misunderstood some of the rules. Now the minister actually answered very well on a very limited speaking time, but I still have a need to supplement it a little. What this is about is a business simplification body that comes in addition to all the other simplification measures and the work that I perceive the Minister of Economic Affairs and the Government is doing, and which actually continues the work that the previous government is going to do to pay tribute to them. But the main purpose of such a simplification body is, as the minister begins to say, to go through systematically everything that is created by new laws, regulations, decrees — you name it — of the state apparatus, which influences the everyday life of business. The Board of Directors has the competence, both professionally and legally, to say that if the purpose of the rule is not related to further work and the additional costs it imposes on business, they can send it back to the government and say: Sorry, this is not good enough, they have to do the job again. Experience from Sweden shows that one sends back as many as 40–50 and up to 60 pst. of the cases, which shows how necessary it is to have a watchmanship in the business sector, even in the case of what is produced by new laws and regulations. Then I want, when I have the floor, to say as one of the proposers, that I am very pleased with the debate, otherwise and not least with the outcome of the case. I'm also very pleased with what I see as a common attitude and understanding that the smallest people and individuals necessarily have some challenges that not everyone else has, under the umbrella: what's good for the little ones, is almost always, and without exception, good for the big ones as well. It's not necessarily the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3713	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3727	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3734	As the case-file rapporteur for the reduction of the use of palm oil in Norway, I present the Committee's recommendation that it be annexed to the protocol. Proposal manufacturers point to several palm oil challenges. They show a clear concern about annual felling and burning large areas of rainforest to plant new oil palms, saying that global palm oil consumption needs to decrease to reduce the pressure on world rainforests. Furthermore, concerns are raised about food labelling and the possibilities for consumers to assess which products they want to purchase from their own knowledge of the palm oil content of the commodities. It is also apparent in this case that EU legislation is also being renewed in relation to food labelling in these days. That Regulation addresses the issue of food information for consumers and introduces requirements in December 2014. There are different views on labelling requirements. Are they good enough and clear enough? Would they be able to receive the special labelling requested by the proposers here? The letters of the Council of State indicate that there is limited access to make national changes to the legislation. In this context, it is important to highlight what the Minister of Industry is now doing in order to influence the regulation to be adopted in December and how the Norwegian authorities do so. Five proposals are being made concerning changes to labelling regulations, food information for consumers, the design of a legislation requiring the traceability of palm oil, clarification of public procurement and, finally, the impact of Norwegian investment and trade on ecosystems in other countries. A minority in the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Left, consider that there is a need to look at both health and nutritional aspects of the use of palm oil and consider that there may be a need for new legislation. There may also be a need to look at trade policy aspects related to both EU legislation and Norwegian investment in tropical forest countries. This includes several policy responsibilities, and it is arduous to take responsibility for this only in the Business Committee. That is why this minority is promoting proposals that the government should examine these aspects more closely and that it should promote a whole range of issues in the UK.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3755	The representative Else-May Botten has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3758	It is, to a large extent, a very co-consensual committee. There is a great deal of attention to the environmental and health challenges related to palm oil. At the same time, this is a very large and international market. To illustrate this, I can mention that the consumption of palm oil has doubled since 2000, and the forecast is that it will double again before 2020. We may have to recognise that Norway is a small country in the world, and that we have to work very internationally, which was also the rapporteur. Traceability, sustainability and labelling are the key elements. In the case of sustainability, 50 pst is. the placing on the market is already subject to strict sustainability principles, and the business and market themselves have taken the initiative. It's a positive development. In addition, the labelling of palm oil is EEA-harmonised. There is also work in Norway to implement EU Regulation No. 1169/2011, so-called Food Information Regulation, in Norwegian law within the year. It shall make it easier for the consumer to know what is the content of the products. There's a lot of work to do. Manufacturers are made aware of and take measures that are subject to these strict sustainability principles, the consumer is made aware of by a number of measures, and it is very clear in the right direction. This is such a large international product that Norway cannot leave the world. That's why we see very active work being done, from both the government and all the parties, in getting good control of the turnover and the challenges associated with palm oil, and the majority does not see the need for an overall case at this stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3775	As it has been said, there is a great deal of agreement in this matter. It is interesting that the rapporteurs have five points in the draft representative, and I think I must refer to the good letter of reply that came from the Council of State, which is at the time of the vote and which corresponds to the five points. It's quite obvious that the government is on the ball, using that expression in these football sessions, and maybe the working party is hanging a little bit behind in an attempt to reach that ball. In any case, it is gratifying that there is a great deal of consensus in the Committee, and several of those who have spoken to now have pointed out that this is a large and international market. I have to quote a little bit from the setting, because there's one thing I don't quite understand: «The majority of the Committee, the members of the Right, the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party refer to the letter of the Council of State to the Committee where the focus on sustainability, traceability and labelling is a horizontal theme. There it turns out that 50 pst. of the international palm oil market is now subject to strict internal sustainability criteria. The majority also indicates that palm oil is an international product and that food labelling legislation is EEA-harmonised. Norway thus has everything to gain from being part of and supporting under international measures to strengthen the sustainability of palm oil production instead of assessing special rules and measures.’ This is in the setting. So this isn't the Workers' Party or the Center's party in the notes. I really think that's a little amazing, because it's through international cooperation, international agreements, and through participating and influencing international organisations, it's through this. This is particularly strange when you can read at the same time in the proposal for a representative: ‘In the eyes of the proposers, global consumption of palm oil must be reduced in order to reduce the pressure on the world’s rainforests.’ So it turns out that this is an international problem, but when we write notes and take it into consideration, the Labour Party and the Center Party are not involved. It surprises me a lot, because – as the representative Gundersen quite correctly said – Norway is a small part of the world. To solve a global problem, global interaction is essential, and it is important for us. I think it's very good what the government is doing in this area, the focus you have. I would also like to take the opportunity to refer to the letter that Stortinget received from NHO Mat and Drink on 29 April. It also shows the focus of business on the use of sustainable palm oil. There's a lot of people going in the right direction, and then we just want to welcome the Workers' Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3803	This proposal raises a necessary and topical debate. Concerns have repeatedly been raised in the media about health challenges and sustainability challenges related to the use of palm oil. Sustainability, traceability and labelling have been an ongoing topic in the debate. The letter from the Council of State to this matter states that 50 pst. of the international palm oil market is now subject to strict internal sustainability criteria. Furthermore, Norway is supporting under international measures to strengthen the sustainability of palm oil production. Palm oil is an international product, and the Christian People's Party believes it is better with binding and harmonised international legislation than to adopt specic rules and measures. It is important that it is now established that better information is to be provided to consumers and that palm oil is stimulated to be produced in a sustainable way. In examining this matter in the Committee, consideration has been shifted from sustainability and environmental challenges to industrial and health aspects. There we already have good practices and a good EEA-harmonised code of labelling. At the same time, we know that the Food Information Regulation will enter into force in Norway at the same time as it enters into force in the EU, 13 December this year. This Regulation shall make it easier to find out what the food contains, inter alia: the type of vegetable oil or fat it contains. At the same time, the food industry itself has initiated the use of sustainable palm oil in food through the initiative for the use of sustainable palm oil in Norway, where the companies behind this initiative undertake to use only sustainably produced palm oil or certified palm oil according to the criteria of the Round Table for Sustainable Palm Oil, RSPO, by the end of 2015. This is currently the world’s most well-known palm oil certification scheme, and the Rain Forest Fund states that it is significantly better to buy RSPO certified palm oil than uncertified palm oil. Each of the companies behind this initiative undertakes to explain the amount of palm oil they use and the proportion certified according to the criteria of the RSPO or through other certification and control systems. Holdings shall also report the traceable proportion of palm oil. This is an affordable initiative by the industry itself and will be an important element in ensuring that palm oil used and traded in Norway is sustainable. In the Christian People's Party, we are concerned that it should be sustainable, traceable palm oil, and that the information to consumers on the use of palm oil in food should be good. I believe that this is well covered by the commitments made by the industry itself and by the obligations arising from existing and future legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3820	There are several aspects to which attention must be paid. Firstly, palm oil that is actually used is produced in a good and sustainable way. Secondly, it is the total consumption of palm oil that is important, and thirdly, it concerns consumers. It is important that we enable Norwegian consumers to make qualified choices when they are at the store. If you go to the shops, you also see that the industry and shops are very nice to notice the products that are without palm oil. One is not as eager to label those with palm oil. Hopefully that's going to be a little bit better now. The proposal in this case goes beyond just a labelling system. I think the case rapporteur made a good deal of it, and such a case could also contain strategies and opportunities that enable the Norwegian food industry to phase out palm oil to a greater extent than today and at a faster pace than today. Research and development is required. Another aspect of the proposal is the health aspects of the use of palm oil, which will be relevant here. Then there's an attack from the representative of Korsberg. No, it's not like the parties Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Left, if I'm going to venture to talk on their behalf, is against what's happening on the international arena and within the EEA, but it's that the majority of the Committee uses this as an argument and a structure to a conclusion where they don't want the case that the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Left are behind. This is going to be a blow to the air. The fact that the representative of Korsberg wants to give a blow to the two parties is further underlined by the fact that he consistently fails to mention the Left in his outline, which is, of course, with the Workers' Party and the Center Party in most of the comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3829	I would first like to thank the case rapporteur for the review she made of the matter and put me behind it as it was. I agree that there is a great deal of consensus in the committee, but at the same time I do not think we are offensive enough. We are missing something, and I register that the majority does not think this is an important enough case to get back to Stortinget with it. When we see what more professional environments warn against as regards palm oil, and the majority in the Committee emphasise that it shares the view of the proposers that ‘it is necessary to take action to ensure better information for consumers and to stimulate the production of palm oil in a sustainable way’, it is not offensive enough to refer to what is already happening and that we should be cautious internationally in that work. [[...]] I end with that and I'm pointing out that the left will of course go for what's our primary position, and I'm going to base it on what's going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3838	SV supports the proposal, and I will explain a little about why. It may be no surprise to the President that the SV supports his proposal in this matter. We're the one. This case emphatically shows that we're kind of an international, global body whole bunch, where we're a lot weird from all over the world. It's good, and it's still going to be that way. We're going to taste a little bit from all over the world. So the question is, would Norway be a bad place if we had taken a real grip on palm oil? I don't think so. The truth is, we would probably get a little bit better heart. We know that there is an acid in the palm oil that has a particularly bad effect on the heart and vessels, so the health aspect is well documented. We know how it affects the body. We know how this development with increased use of palm oil damages the rainforest around, because either high or burning down forests to establish plantations, and former rainforest areas are very favorable places for such plantations. There are many oils in the world. The palm oil may be the cheapest, but far from the very best. When we know the consequences of palm oil on the body and nature, and how this destroys rainforests, especially in Southeast Asia, I find it hard to understand why the majority do not want us to go deeper into this. Everyone is concerned about marking and tracking. But there's a limit on how much we want to check, for example. The chocolate we buy, for what substance it is in him. None of us would like to choose a society where we have to spend hours in stores to check if there's any nonsense and stuff in our food. We also know that a lot of the RSPO-certified companies have been taken for pigs in the woods, to use that expression. I think it's strange that a number of people don't want to go along with this. SV wants it, and we're also going to follow up similar consumer-related issues. For SV's part, there is a limit on the amount the user has to put into order to make choices. As a society, we have a responsibility to do some of that work for people.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3851	It's an important issue that the big-time representatives Raja and Kjenseth are focusing on. In the debate on the use of palm oil, there are actually two aspects we are discussing: the importance for health and the environmental impact. When the palm oil is often referred to as ‘hosting’, it is because it is an unfavourable variant among the oils. Palm oil contains significantly more saturated fat than other vegetable oils. The health authorities therefore recommend that we limit the intake of saturated fatty acids. In order to ensure a good diet, it is important that we can make informed choices when dealing with food. When the EU regulation regulating the information and labelling of food content enters into force in Norway at the turn of the year, we will have new provisions that will make it easier for consumers to know what the food contains. The list of ingredients for prepacked foods will be required to show the type of vegetable oil or fat contained in the product, such as palm oil or rapeseed oil. The purpose of the new labelling provisions is primarily to help consumers make healthy food choices. It will also have the added effect that consumers who wish to do so can choose from an environmental point of view away food containing palm oil. This leads me to the second important challenge, namely the environmental aspect. The oil palm produces relatively much oil per hectare and is therefore a more land efficient product than most alternative food oils. The production of palm oil remains a significant cause of deforestation in tropical countries, particularly in Southeast Asia. Of course, it's very unfortunate. But palm oil is also an important source of income for many poor countries, and can be produced sustainably. It is not palm oil as a product that creates the negative environmental effects, but how land is used as an input to production. Systems are currently in place to ensure that traceable palm oil can be purchased. Several have been involved in the RSPO system, which is one of the world’s most famous certification schemes for palm oil. When palm oil is sold as Identity Preserved, it means that certified palm oil is kept separate from non-certified palm oil throughout the supply chain. In addition, it is traceable, so that the buyer can know which plantations the palm oil comes from. Unfortunately, small IP palm oil is currently available on the market. In order to distort production from unsustainable to sustainable palm oil, it is important that businesses and consumers demand sustainable and traceable palm oil and that we, as authorities, focus on this. Fortunately, we see a trend in the positive direction. Over 50 pst. the international palm oil market is now subject to strict internal sustainability criteria. But it is important that this development continues. The government is also working to combat unsustainable palm oil through climate and forest management. One of the measures is to support countries that reduce their deforestation. The value of intact forests is often not taken into account in the land use decisions. By rewarding land for intact forests, we contribute to the environmental importance of forests in land use decisions. The government also supports measures to facilitate conversion to sustainable and deforestation-free production, including: through a public-private partnership with the Consumer Goods Forum, which is a professional organisation with more than 400 members and a total sale of more than 20 trillion – or 1000 billion. - Kroner. The partnership is at the heart of the deforestation problem — expanding and inefficient agricultural production. The government will also continue to focus its search for non-sustainable production of palm oil. We believe that today's instruments with existing rules on labelling and traceability, as well as the own involvement of authorities, consumers and businesses in the matter, are sufficient to ensure proper development in this matter. But, of course, we need to follow developments closely so that other measures can be assessed if developments do not go as we please.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3873	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3876	The left was aware that we were not offensive enough. I don't think you're going to get so much more offensive about an imposition on the government to figure out even more. What is important is, of course, how society handles the challenges we face in society, and how business handles this challenge. I'd like to decorate a little bit of business. Firstly, we have to distinguish between palm oil that has been produced resiliently and palm oil that has not been produced resiliently. There are two very different things, and I feel that business is very attentive to this, without the laws and regulations for it. The representative of the Christian People's Party has been involved in this, and has named the certification scheme of which many are occupied. There's a lot of people following this. Salmon producers use feed produced by the EOS and included in this scheme. Nestlé even has a child product that can trace back to the garden on which they are produced. So a lot of people are busy with this. I feel that the food industry is very busy when it comes to these challenges. What's important is that these actors keep asking for resiliently produced palm oil. SV asks rhetorically if Norway would be a worse country to be in if we had taken a grip on palm oil. For palm oil producing countries, this is a very important commodity – for those who produce the oil in a good and productive way. There are hundreds of thousands who have their livelihoods of this. In Indonesia is 40 pst. of palm oil producers small beans. It's very important that we help them to produce in a resilient way, instead of not having this trade with them, I think. Palm oil has some unique characteristics that very few other oils have. Finding alternative oils with the same properties is very demanding. If we got an oil corresponding to palm oil, and got the properties that we want, from other types of oil, we had to use a much larger area of our land to produce this oil. But I'm very grateful that the Minister of Industry, Ministry and Government are very much on this, and that they follow developments and follow up if there's a need for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3893	It is good that there is involvement in such an important and reasonably complex matter, and I think it is important that big business representatives are also involved in World Cup football – that's fine. But when you are told that one’s own party ‘ hangs after the ball’, I have to say that it is an expression I have not heard in football either. Had it been ‘on the ball’, or ‘dribbled’, or that kind of thing, I might have understood better. I think it was an attempt at a bad handling. If the representative of Korsberg had read the case, he would have seen that the proposal from the Left is much about the EU regulation. The working party is concerned that the best possible result is to be achieved. We are concerned that the commercial policy aspect in this case is also well taken care of, but is it enough that the companies should have an overview of and be able to document who they buy goods from, and to whom they sell? Is it not also important that this relationship is communicated to consumers and that they are well informed about it? So it might be interesting, perhaps, to hear what the representative of Korsberg says about the offensive attitude of the government in this matter now, in the work on the EU regulation. What is specifically done in such negotiations in order to obtain the best possible result for both consumers and producers before their adoption? That's now we have to do it, not when it's passed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3902	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3915	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3922	In view of the fact that this is a free trade agreement signed in 2008, I am pleased and relieved to see that it can finally be ratified and will soon enter into force. A unanimous nutrition committee in Stortinget has now said and given its green light. This free trade agreement will provide Norway with much better market access in Colombia for industrial products and fish. This will include, inter alia: say full elimination of customs duties for 85 pst. from the date of entry into force of the Agreement, exports of industrial products by EFTA. Customs duties for the remaining goods shall be removed over four and nine years respectively. Norwegian enterprises also have better opportunities to participate in tendering for public acquisitions. Today, Colombia has customs duties on imports of fish and seafood in the sheath 5-20 pst. The agreement provides for a total of 28 fishery products to be freed from customs duties from day one, while a gradual phasing down of 130 other fishery products. Known fishery products such as fresh salmon and trout, fresh halibut, fresh cod, frozen salmon, frozen herring and frozen mackerel are included in the 28 fishery products which get zero-tariff when the agreement enters into force. In other words, this agreement provides very good conditions for the export of fish and marine products. I believe that this is something the Norwegian fishing industry will enjoy very well in the years to come. In addition, Norwegian exports of services are better conditioned. The Economic and Social Committee had a hearing on this matter, and stressed, inter alia, that: Norwegian Industry that this was a very important agreement for their members. If I'm going to bring forward one company that should lift the flags and celebrate the ratification of the agreement, that's enough Yara. Fertilizers are Norway’s most important export product to Colombia. Fertilizers are currently subject to a customs duty of 10 p.m. on importation into Colombia. The customs duties for this product will be removed immediately after the entry into force of the Free Trade Agreement, so that the free trade agreement will be beneficial to Norwegian fertilizer exports in competition with foreign producers. Of other typical Norwegian exports where customs duties are eliminated immediately, aluminium, ship’s pumps and solar cells are. For crude oil, propane, parts of drilling machines and newsprint rolls there will be a gradual slowdown of customs duties. Today, imports from Colombia to Norway are mainly agricultural products such as coffee, flowers and fruit. In 2013, we imported goods for approx. 787 million. kr. I would like to think that this will take a heavy toll, especially for fruit and vegetables – among other things. otherwise I know that there are popular fruits in Colombia that are not bought in Norway today. In this area, Norway will provide Colombia with at least as good conditions as given to the EU. Norwegian exports to Colombia last year amounted to 222 million. kr. When the Storting agrees to the ratification of this Free Trade Agreement, which has already been ratified by the other EFTA countries, a Norwegian export adventure is facilitated. The possibilities are there, and one can of course dream of experiencing the same success as one did when the free trade agreement with South Korea entered into force – a country that has about as many inhabitants as Colombia and where Norway exports about. Between 13 and 14 B.C.E. kr annually. However, one thing is to facilitate better opportunities for Norwegian exports – that there are equal or better conditions in relation to other countries. Another issue is whether this agreement had not been ratified. At that time, we, the Stortinget, had allowed Norwegian companies and companies to become in a competitive situation – for the benefit of Colombia’s other trading partners in the United States, the EU and other EFTA countries – and get worse conditions, which Norwegian companies have suffered for several years. There is no concealment that we are concerned about the human rights situation and workers' rights in Colombia. We are therefore pleased that Norway has a significant humanitarian commitment in Colombia, both through assistance to Norwegian, international and local organisations, and which facilitates the peace negotiations between the Colombian Government and the FARC and ELN guild groups. Norway and Colombia have also signed a bilateral Memorandum of Understanding, MoU, on political consultations with reference to workers’ rights and human rights. I would also like to stress that the Committee has noted that, by letter to the Committee dated 13 May, the Minister for Foreign Affairs confirms that the Government will actively follow up on issues related to the rights of workers and human rights in future consultations with Colombia. Finally, I would like to commend other parties for their very good cooperation, constructive talks and negotiations, so that this became a unanimous committee position, both in the form of comments and decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3956	I want to start by thanking the case rapporteur for a very good and comprehensive job. In 2005, we came to a crossroads in the work on free trade agreements. The Stoltenberg government has taken over to follow Norwegian offensive interests, and not just the principle of EU parallelism. After October 2005, Norway has negotiated and signed 10 free trade agreements. In addition, three agreements were signed between 2005 and 2013 which had been negotiated mainly before that time. The launch of eight ongoing negotiations took place during the Stoltenberg government. We in the Workers' Party are positive that the new government will also work for freer trade and pursue an offensive trade policy that focuses on Norway's interests. An open and regulated trading system provides predictability for countries and enterprises and is a prerequisite for fair trade. New global trade agreements must aim to ensure that countries that are working out of poverty can also participate in international trade. Free trade agreements must take account of environmental considerations and employee rights. Today we are adopting the trade agreement with Colombia. This is an agreement that has pointed out that it is more demanding than any of the others I have been with and treated in this room. The EFTA Ministerial Meeting adopted in 2010 a common platform to include environmental and labour rights in future free trade agreements. The free trade agreement with Colombia had already been negotiated. Therefore, Norway and Colombia signed a bilateral MoU on political consultations, with references to labour rights and human rights, in February 2014. It is an important direction we in the Workers' Party want and are pleased to be clarified for the future. Norway has a significant humanitarian commitment in Colombia – on which the case-rapporteur was involved – through assistance to Norwegian, international and local organisations and facilitating the peace negotiations between the Government of Colombia and the FARC and ELN guild groups. The strenuous situation has made it difficult to land in this case. On that basis, we have had a consultation within the Committee, which is not common in the context of free trade agreements. The aim of the agreement is to increase economic relations with Colombia and that the agreement, together with the MoU, can contribute in the long term to improving the human rights and employee rights situation. We are therefore concerned that the MoU is regularly evaluated and informed about in the Stortinge in the future. We see that the MoU that has been negotiated has established a mechanism to enable Norwegian authorities to regularly discuss human rights and employee rights directly with the Colombian authorities. This presupposes that we will be followed up by the government. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of this agreement preventing Norwegian companies from facing competitive situations against other US and EU trading partners in Colombia. There was one thing I should say, but it came out – I think it has already been said by the case-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3982	The evening is long enough – the President can assure the representative – without the last minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3985	First of all, thank you to the President-in-Office for a good political craftsmanship in this matter. The Christian People's Party supports the Free Trade Agreement between Norway and Colombia. I just want to focus on one aspect of my brief article, what goes on in the human rights situation. There is no doubt that Colombia is in a serious human rights situation. There are conflicts. It is demanding for those who stand up for human rights, and it is demanding for many who have been persecuted. At the same time, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights today's government acknowledges the work done. It's important. It has been a long process – from signing this free trade agreement to 2014 onwards. From the Christian People's Party it has been right to wait with the ratification of the agreement, so that we got the MoU in place. If we look at this from the trade union side, the leader of LO, Gerd Kristiansen, says that it was a great victory when the MoU was achieved, and that it was important to wait. As the representative Else-May Botten said, we are concerned that we are getting reports on how this work is going. There is no doubt that in the Committee it was precisely this point that made it difficult for many to support a free trade agreement: that the human rights situation in Colombia is demanding. Yes, it is being taken into account – it is to be recognised – but there are constantly new approaches that need to be taken to improve the human rights situation for all in Colombia.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e3998	I would also like to thank the case rapporteur for the job he has done. It was not obvious that there would be a unanimous committee in this matter. For the Central Party, it is important to pursue a trade and foreign policy which takes account of human rights and where they are high. We are very serious about the human rights situation in Colombia. This was also the background to the Committee's open consultation on such a free trade agreement. It is our view that this hearing was very useful. And it's not that free trade agreements are automatic – it's politics and careful assessments that have to be made when a person takes a position on them. In my opinion, the proposal presented by the Committee takes account of many of the contributions made during the consultation round. The positive side is – as many have pointed out – that the agreement will help increase trade between Norway and Colombia and ensure improved market access for our goods. However, due to the difficult human rights situation in Colombia, it is important that we continue to use in the future the channels now established to influence towards increased respect for workers’ and human rights. Closer ties in the form of increased trade allow Norway to engage more closely in dialogue with Colombia. In his letter to the Committee, the Minister for Foreign Affairs confirmed that the government will follow up the issue of workers’ and human rights in its discussions with Colombia. It was on this basis and – I stress it – after a rather difficult balance that the Central Party concluded that we support the Free Trade Agreement with Colombia.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4009	At this moment, 47 million Colombians are sitting in front of the TV and have presumably seen their team win over the Côte d'Ivoire. In that fight, I'm on the Côte d'Ivoire, but it's nice that Colombia wins. After nearly six years, this trade agreement comes to the Storting to be ratified, to a great deal of cheer from all the other parties. I think there are good reasons to be very critical of the agreement. Colombia is one of the countries in the world where human rights are the worst. It is the most dangerous country in the world to run trade union business. No country will kill more trade union workers than here. From 2012 to 2013, the number of killed trade unionists, human rights activists and leaders in peasant and indigenous organisations increased. The defenders of this agreement have the right to have a trade agreement not primarily an agreement aimed at resolving the challenges of human rights and labour rights. When the Committee suggests that free trade agreements have a positive impact on the protection of human rights, it is a simplification of reality, with serious consequences. It is not that the human rights situation automatically improves when a free trade agreement is concluded. This depends on the situation in each country, the conditions under which a trader is acting, and the nature of the contractual requirements. In this case, there is little reason to believe that the agreement would be a positive contribution. The agreement does not require respect for human rights or employee rights. He is only followed by a so-called Memorandum of Understanding, which neither provides the opportunity to monitor nor to sanction developments when it relates to the situation of human rights and labour rights in the future. An evaluation of the corresponding agreement between the United States and Colombia shows that the lack of follow-up has caused workers’ rights to be weakened in many cases after the agreement entered into force. When workers’ rights are as weak as in Colombia, Norway cannot enter into an agreement that could exacerbate their situation. Trade is always ours and is still a policy. Opposition to the free trade agreements with the United States was one of the main slogans of the major demonstrations in 2013, which were the largest in recent Colombian history. Many are also concerned that this agreement can affect the important peace process, where Norway should be a neutral organizer. Colombians do not primarily need a free trade agreement with Norway, but clear votes from outside supporting the forces in the country that fight for human rights, better labour rights and democracy. If Norway enters into a free trade agreement, we risk losing trust and trust in the parts of civil society that fight for human rights and democratic values, which I count with the entire hall in 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4026	Right now that the case rapporteur had done such an excellent job and got a unanimous vote in the committee, you had to destroy the idyll. That was a bit of a reason why I waited to draw up an article, because there was no reason to repeat the rapporteur's presentation. The concern of SV is in and of itself the very central issue. Everyone is aware of the human rights situation and the employee rights situation in Colombia. What's the question, is how we can best influence that situation. Can we best influence it by contributing to Colombia's integration and ability to create development in its society through trade, which has been our move towards increased well-being, or should we isolate them until the solution has been found internally? I was very pleased that the whole committee agreed that integrating a country is the way to solve these kinds of problems. Norway has a high level of commitment to humanitarian purposes in Colombia, and is doing a considerable job there, and it is right that we also do a job by integrating Colombia into as much trade as possible. As most people have also registered, there have just been presidential elections in Colombia and, from the Norwegian point of view, the right candidate has won. I think it is right that we also contribute by ratifying and setting up the trade agreement that we are now discussing, because this is definitely the right way to go. In this way, I think our government has done a very good job getting the MoU in place now in February 2014, so that the agreement that has been in place for six years in the Ministry of Industry can also be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4035	I very much appreciate that the Business Committee unanimously agreed to the ratification of a free trade agreement between EFTA and Colombia and an agricultural agreement between Norway and Colombia. I also appreciate the fact that the majority of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee – with the exception of SV – subscribes to the position of the Business Committee. The main objective of the agreement is to stimulate increased trade and economic cooperation between the EFTA countries and Colombia. Trade between Norway and Colombia is modest today, but increasing. We expect a further increase as a result of this agreement. In addition, the agreement will ensure that the competitiveness of Norwegian companies is not impaired compared to major international competitors, including companies established in the EU. Let me start by giving some examples of what the Free Trade Agreement will mean for Norwegian exporters. The free trade agreement significantly improves market access for industrial products and fish. There will be full elimination of customs duties for most Norwegian exports from the entry into force of the Agreement. Customs duties on the remaining goods shall be removed after a maximum of nine years. Fertilizers are Norway’s most important export product to Colombia. Fertilizers are currently subject to a customs duty of 10 p.m. into Colombia. The customs duties applicable to this product shall be removed immediately upon entry into force of the free trade agreement. It'll mean a lot to Yara's factory in Her Island. Not only does it ensure jobs, but it also facilitates increased activity. The rates of duty in Colombia on fish are currently between 5 and 20 pst. Norwegian exports of these products to Colombia are currently limited. The Free Trade Agreement facilitates an increase in exports by eliminating customs duties either immediately or after a period of deceleration. Colombia has made little use of the WTO shipping obligations. In the Free Trade Agreement, Colombia has removed all restrictions on international shipping as well as for certain types of domestic maritime transport. This is an area where Norwegian shipping companies have strong export interests. Norway has strong export interests in maritime insurance, and Colombia is committed to giving Norwegian operators access to the Colombian market under the same conditions as national operators. Colombia also has strong oil and gas deposits, and production has increased significantly in recent years. Norwegian operators are given market access in the agreement for a wide range of energy-related services. A number of Norwegian importers have contacted the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries with questions about when the agreement will enter into force. Norway is reducing the rates of customs duties on flowers in the Free Trade Agreement, and we expect, in particular, that imports of roses will increase. Norway eliminates the rate of customs duty on textiles and the rate of duty on a number of agricultural products. The free trade agreement with Colombia is controversial in Norway. This is due to the difficult situation in the country with regard to labour rights and human rights. The agreement has also been criticised for not containing more obligatory provisions on employee rights than those contained in the legal provisions. The government has taken care of this. We have signed a MoU with Colombia on political consultations. The MoU contains explicit references to employee rights and human rights. The first consultation was held in March. The Colombian delegation was led by Minister of Labour Pardo, and several other relevant actors in the field of human rights were involved. I can assure you that employees' rights will be given high priority in the further follow-up of the MoU. The aim is to hold the next political consultations in Colombia in a few months. In addition to employee rights, other human rights issues will also be addressed. Norway is a significant partner and contributor to the work on human rights in Colombia. The government is determined to continue and strengthen our commitment to the peace process. I can also confirm that we will of course keep Stortinget informed about developments. In addition to following up on the MoU, we will work to extend the Free Trade Agreement with a chapter on trade and sustainable development. Such a chapter will contain binding provisions on employee rights and the environment. The first occasion will be at the first meeting of the Joint Committee. This was something I took up with Minister of Labour Pardo during a meeting we had in March. It is not the case that the FTA will solve Colombia’s challenges. Nor is it the intention to conclude such agreements. We conclude free trade agreements in order to maximise the contribution to increased value creation and well-being in Norway. At the same time, the agreement opens up dialogue with Colombia and the growing presence of Norwegian companies can have a positive impact on the working conditions of the country. We want to influence by presence and dialogue, and believe that this free trade agreement will be an important contribution to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4067	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4071	As the only one in opposition to this case, I'm counting on I can stand here and take some time to the council. I agree that trade agreements should not primarily be a tool for the promotion of human rights, labour rights, etc., but at the same time we must ensure that this does not lead to a deterioration of human rights and labour rights in the countries with which we agree. I wonder, therefore, whether the Minister has received the evaluation of a corresponding agreement between the United States and Colombia, where one has the same mechanism, but one has actually seen that that agreement has led to a deterioration?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4085	I do not know specifically the evaluation referred to here. But we've concluded a MoU. We're going to sit at the same table as Colombia and discuss these important questions. I had a very interesting meeting with the Minister of Labour earlier this year, where this was the theme, and where I realized that Colombia was very concerned that they had challenges in this area, and the minister was very open that this was something they were working hard on. So this is about what follow-up we have from our side, and we're going to be active in the follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4092	So-called MoUs or Memorandum of Understanding have been under critical searchlights in several contexts. They provide, among other things: no understanding of what is happening in the country through that mechanism — no possibility of monitoring. And it also gives no possibility through them to punish. But when I hear the Minister speaking now, it seems that MoU is a positive mechanism, while in reality, from my perspective, he is a system that does not work – and there we have an example. The Minister will consider looking at MoU as a scheme by, among other things. to analyse how this has worked in the corresponding agreements?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4101	I have no reason to believe that we need a review of this. We believe that this is an appropriate instrument, and believe that sitting at the same table, discussing these difficult issues, presenting our views, is important. So in addition, we're going to deal with Colombia. This means that our businesses are going to be increasingly present with our values, our social responsibility, and they can help to strengthen Colombia in this area – simply by being present and acting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4108	Let me just conclude with a very simple question: if this agreement leads to a deterioration in the human rights situation in Colombia, will the Minister think that the trade agreement is then a failure?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4113	I think it's very difficult to stand here wondering what I would think if, if, that. There's nothing that's been stoned, and I think that international relations must be constantly followed up and informed about what's going on. Of course, this also applies in Colombia.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4120	So the line chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4136	The case concerns the consent to the ratification of a free trade agreement between the EFTA States, Costa Rica and Panama of 24 June 2013. Trade between countries is at present relatively modest. As regards the human rights situation in the two countries, there are still challenges — particularly in Panama. But here too, the situation is better than in most other countries in the region. The agreement allows El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua to join the agreement at a later date. It is an overall committee that recommends it. In its observations, the Committee stresses that if new countries are to accede to the agreement, they must be presented to the Grand Duchy. The matter has also been brought before the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, which had no comments. I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter and therefore recommend the unanimous recommendation of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4149	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4163	Norway is part of Europe and European cooperation. The financial crisis showed us that cross-border cooperation is important for solving international problems. Work is a central value for all people. The experience of being out of the labour market is serious, and many young people in Europe experience unemployment. We have a common commitment to get young people into permanent work. The alternative is young people who lose faith in the politician’s ability to solve their challenges. The EU Programme EaSI aims to contribute to the implementation of the Europe 2020 strategy by providing assistance to meet the EU’s objectives of promoting a high level of employment, ensuring decent social protection, combating social exclusion and poverty and improving working conditions. EURES is a cooperation network between the European Commission and the PES in the EU Member States, the EEA States and Switzerland. Cooperation shall promote the free movement of labour and strengthen employment opportunities for all in the EEA and Switzerland. Cooperation assists in the provision of recruitment and placement services for employers and jobseekers, supported by information and guidance. It is a challenge of high unemployment among young people because they may lose faith in finding a job and give up applying for job vacancies in other European countries with lower unemployment. The EURES programme is intended to prevent this. It provides for the modernisation of the EURES portal and its self-service tools. Among other things, through the further development of a mobility scheme called your first EURES job. The portal will prepare young people's access to the labour market throughout Europe. The target group is young people aged 18 to 30 who want to find a job in another Member State, and employers from small and medium-sized enterprises who can offer jobs to young jobseekers. The EURES portal has some 38 million individual visits per year. The European Commission states that around 150 000 jobseekers find work each year or receive job offers through EURES cooperation. The experience of cooperation within the EURES network has been positive and is an instrument of Norwegian labour market policy related to mobility and workers and labour migration. The government wants Norway to be a contributor to the creation of a Europe of solidarity, inclusive and secure. Job seekers will be able to obtain accurate information on working conditions, salary levels and more general information on the conditions of the countries covered by the cooperation and where they can expect to apply for work. In Norway, participation in EURES is managed by the Employment and Welfare Act. Norway has participated in EURES since 1994. Due to budgetary constraints, it is proposed that Norway participates from 2014 only in the EURES axis of the EaSI programme, which is the reason for – and not the other parts of the Regulation. Full participation in the EaSI programme will commit budgetary resources over several years and will require a separate allocation proposal for the Storting. The Working Party has proposed to the Committee that the Storting give its consent to a decision on the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of the EURES and PROGRESS axes of the Regulation. The Central Party has stated in the Committee that it wishes to oppose the government's submission to join part of the EURES axis of the EaSI programme and that it does not support the proposal for full support for the EaSI programme. At the same time, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the members of the Committee on Good and Effective Cooperation on a matter which concerns both Norway and Europe, and where it is known that the parties have different positions in several areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4195	First, I want to thank the case spokesperson for a thorough work. For Norway, it is important to be able to continue to participate in European cooperation in the field of employment and social policy. Especially at a time of social unrest and high unemployment in Europe, it is important that Norway is a contributor. The Labour Party believes that the value of participating in such cooperation is great and considers it obvious that Norway should be involved in the process of creating a solid, inclusive and secure Europe. I believe that the EaSI programme is a positive contribution to this. The programme is a comprehensive three-axis EU programme which together helps to promote high employment, ensure decent social protection, combat social exclusion and poverty and improve working conditions. Until the end of 2013, Norway took part in two of these axes, PROGRESS and EURES. European cooperation was prioritised by the Stoltenberg Government. Under the PROGRESS programme, Norway had other national experts in the European Commission. The background for merging what was previously three independent applications, and creating a single application, was a desire to continue developing all areas of application, in particular EURES and PROGRESS, which are logically linked together as a whole. I think it is good for the government to continue to join the EURES axis, so that it can also help in the future to promote geographical mobility and increase employment opportunities by developing an open labour market. However, the brother part of the EaSI programme is not about it, but about the PROGRESS axis of the programme. In this context, the objective is to modernise labour and social policy. The main part of PROGRESS I think is in the middle of what we are working on in Norwegian labour and social policy, simply to promote employment – especially fighting youth unemployment – to promote social protection and inclusion, to fight against poverty and to improve conditions and conditions in the labour market. So by participating in PROGRESS, we support the development of appropriate social security and labour market policies by promoting good governance, mutual learning and social innovation. Therefore, when the government only partially endorses the new EaSI programme, it is a de-prioritisation of European cooperation in the field of employment and social affairs. The working party is critical of such a priority, especially because the foundation is budgetary. Making it an increase in employment and social solidarity in Europe should be a priority for Norway. In addition, participation in a larger part of the EaSI will allow Norway access to several tools, actions and programmes that can make it possible for more people with reduced working capacity and youth to enter the Norwegian labour market. I welcome this proposal where, on this basis, the Labour Party supports both the EURES and PROGRESS axes of the EaSI programme from the Norwegian side from 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4214	The representative Fredric Holen Bjørdal has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4217	There are probably few themes that make the blood of otherwise wise nordics shower as much as any occasion for an EU or EEA debate. For many years, people and politicians have discussed their face in blue over every detail of Norway’s relationship with the EU. Today's debate should not be one of those where the blood rushes, for this is simply about a practical system for the labour market. If the EU did not exist, we would probably have had a similar agreement with our main trading partners. I'm a representative of a party that has tradition of looking at what's best for Norwegian interests. What helps Norwegian workers, Norwegian employers and Norwegian economy is, in my opinion, something we have to go in favour of. I am also a liberalist, and therefore I am pleased that a broad majority of the Stortinget – in fact, only the Central Party is outside – determines that we need economic growth and a high level of employment in order to ensure decent social protection, combating social exclusion and poverty. It contributes, inter alia, to: this is the time of the agreement. The path to a better life for a wider population goes through a sensible economic policy, just as the government has established its political platform with its fields of activity. As I see it, the EURES axis is an appropriate means of making the European and thus the Norwegian labour market a little more efficient. We all deserve to make it easier for jobseekers to find the right job. We are all well served to make it easier for employers to find skilled workers. And we're all earned that it costs as much as possible for the labour market to function like this. At the same time, I would like to thank the Minister of Labour for not rushing into parts of the EURES axis that do not necessarily serve Norwegian interests. We've earned a little more time for the EaSI program before we might join it. We are adopting today one of the reasonable and good aspects of the EEA Agreement. Then we will have to disagree on other aspects of Norway's relationship with both the EU and the EEA.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4238	EURES is a cooperation network between the European Commission and the PES in the EU Member States, EEA countries and Switzerland. Norwegian participation in the EU Programme for Employment and Social Innovation, EaSI, for the period 2014-2020 is intended to contribute to the achievement of the Europe 2020 strategy. When I hear the representative Bjørdal talk about it contributing to a solidarity, inclusive and safe working life in Europe, I have to say it should flash some lamps for more than me. We see how little success reality looks in relation to the three honorary orders that were mentioned here. There are a lot of nice words, but nobody can avoid seeing what are the realities of the geographical area that we're talking about here. The centre party is opposed to today's agreement on the European Economic Area, EEA, which is based on the free flow of labour, capital, goods and services in this area, and thus the waiver of sovereignty. The representatives of the Central Party voted against the conclusion of the EEA Agreement by Norway in 1992 and, when we now experience the consequences in almost all areas of society – not least in the field of working life – more and more people also recognise here in Norway that voting against the EEA Agreement in 1992 was a wise position. The best way to increase employment in several European countries with a very high unemployment rate today will be for these countries to break out of the coercion line represented by the pan-European currency. The high unemployment rate and the high number of people moving between different European countries, combined with national characteristics, recently led the EU-critical parties to the election of the European Parliament in the year. The Central Party is confident that the time has come for more fundamental criticism of system failures in the European Union. The centre party points to Norway’s contribution to social cohesion through the EEA funds in several Eastern European countries, and it would be naive to believe that Norwegian accession to EURES will promote a higher level of employment overall in Europe. To that end, completely different instruments are required. I would also like to point out that since 2004, Norway has had a particularly large influx of labour from countries joining the European Union. There is therefore no problem for Norway as a whole to obtain the labour needed from these countries. Nor is it the extent of the large influx of labour that must be said to have become a problem for our nation, as Norwegian working life changes a lot by putting the pay and working conditions of different occupational groups under very great pressure. The Centre Party believes that Norway should strengthen efforts to combat the pressure on pay and working conditions in a number of professions, characterised by high levels of foreign labour. Norway must continue to provide financial support targeted at combating social exclusion and poverty in other European countries. The central party believes that the most important thing we can do as a maritime nation is to show other European countries that it is possible to maintain the Norwegian model with a high level of employment, for both men and women, and a good safety net through liberal, universal welfare schemes for our own inhabitants, seas in the economically demanding times. It demands that Norway work even more on what our nation can do about measures to increase the level of employment that has unfortunately been falling in recent years, thus weakening our model. One prerequisite for such a model is that we have our own monetary and financial policies. The Centre Party considers that EURES can be a fine and appropriate programme for several countries associated with the European Union, but does not consider it appropriate that Norway prioritises our funding to participate in this programme. The Centre Party will also indicate that it is voluntary for Norway to join this programme, and the Centre Party is therefore opposed to the Government’s submission to join part of the EURES axis of the EaSI programme. Nor will the centre party support the proposal for full support for the EaSI programme later on. That is why we are voting against the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4261	Much has already been said in the debate, but let me just underline two-three important things. Firstly, the government wants Norway to be a contributor to the creation of an inclusive and secure Europe through an active European policy. We believe that we are doing this by continuing the EURES axis. It's important, as several representatives have pointed out, there's a lot of lessons to learn from. And then I also think it's important, before you go in, to figure out if you're going into more parts of the program. It is still possible to go into the programme at a later stage. It is something that I carefully assess, but I also think it is important to assess it against food-benefit. What projects and programmes are we going to participate in, and what benefits do we have? And then we can spend a little bit of time going through it. I think that might be necessary. This does not mean depriving European work, which means having a conscious attitude towards European work to succeed in a good way. So I have seen that microfinance is something that has not been affected very much. There's also an opportunity to get into it at a later stage, if that's desirable. I record that only 15 of the EU countries are members of that programme – none of the Nordic countries. Iceland is considering going in. We get to come back at some point and consider whether we're going to join it and other parts of the program. But now what we've presented is what the budget has been based on. I record and understand, with the history of the Workers' Party, that we are promoting the proposal we are making in this matter. However, this proposal will not be resolved if no proposal has been made for containment and budgetary allocation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4272	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4286	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4300	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party 20 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Advance Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and the Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4309	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for a good and constructive cooperation. This proposition was referred to in Stortinget on Tuesday last week, and there has been great willingness from all the parties to deal with it before the summer, so that we can avoid delays in the development of the Harstad Road Package. The proposal contains not only the Road Package Harstad but also an additional element, namely a transitional arrangement for the interest compensation scheme for toll loans mentioned in Prop. 97 S for 2013–2014, which we discussed in Stortinget on Tuesday. It has made the treatment somewhat more demanding than whether it should be a pure toll proposition, as it also raises some fundamental questions. The Committee has considered Prop. 119 S in its entirety, including the transitional regime, but at the same time it is clear that a case has to be submitted concerning the interest compensation scheme for the Grand Duchy. So to the very contents of the road package Harstad. Work on the design of a new transport system in Harstad was undertaken due to the traffic challenges on the road. 83. The largest subproject is the construction of a 1,450-metre-long tunnel outside the centre to relieve the centre streets and future streets of the upper part of the city. In addition, various improvement measures shall be implemented along the lines of RV. 83, provision for more efficient and safe public transport, safer school roads, the establishment of car parking lots and bicycles at the end stops, and approx. 30 km with new pavements and walking and cycling routes. The package has a total cost estimate of 1.55 billion. SEK, of which 926 million. Tolls are tolls and the rest are State, municipal and county funds. Compared to local policy decisions, the State share has increased by 370 million. kr including VAT. The Government has submitted a proposal for toll collection based on eight toll stations with two-way collection in line with local policy decisions. At the same time, the Ministry is asked to obtain a mandate to assess whether it is more appropriate to add to one-way collection, thereby reducing the costs of collection. In addition, the Ministry would like to have a power to reduce the bomb charges based on a lower calculation technical interest rate under the transitional arrangements described in the Proposition. Both of these adaptations seem reasonable, and I hope they can be realised in cooperation with local authorities, in this case the municipality of Harstad and the municipality of Trom. The Ministry shows in Prop. 97 S for an interest-rate compensation scheme for toll loans. As a transitional arrangement and until a permanent arrangement is in place, for new toll projects that will be part of the new toll companies, it shall be possible to calculate tariffs based on a 10-year government bond rate. The transitional arrangement will apply to new projects for which the recovery has not been initiated by 20 June 2014. There are 13 such projects under consideration for the transitional regime. I expect that several people have already noticed that possibility. The purpose of derogating from the calculation technical interest rate of the State Road Service is for local authorities to assess for themselves whether they will use a lower interest rate in the calculation of the toll charges. Such an interest rate may not be lower than the 10-year government bond rate. If local authorities want to enter a risk premium in the interest rate, they will be up to the county and municipality, which also provides a guarantee. This mechanism raises some fundamental issues that the Committee has had relatively little time to consider. A Joint Committee therefore asks the Government to present a case on the interest-rate compensation scheme itself, which will form the basis for a broader discussion on the scheme. The transitional regime described in this proposition is, in the opinion of the undersigned, a good opportunity to adjust toll tariffs to a more realistic interest rate. It provides greater scope for action and more flexibility for local authorities, which today guarantee toll loans, to set lower tariffs. Local policy considerations are thus better addressed in such a scheme. I look forward to the further work on a toll reform and an interest-rate compensation scheme for toll loans. And then I am very happy that today we have adopted the Road Package Harstad, so that the work on the project can start without any delay.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4330	I would like to thank the case rapporteur for the good job he has done in a demanding case, which was also time-consuming to deal with. I now expect us to debate today the proposition on the Harstad package and the transitional arrangements for the interest-rate compensation scheme for toll loans, and not all other possible issues that the proposition is not about. But wise of damage from Tuesday's debate on trade, where we in the Workers' Party felt that both the Right Party, the Advance Party and even the Council of State add to the Workers' Party's positions and opinions we do not have, and do not cover them, I would therefore like to underline in the introduction: The Labour Party is open to and would like to welcome new and smarter models to build a road. The working party is also concerned that the community will get the most out of the money. In the case of tolls, the Workers' Party supports the use of tolls – not because we want to plague people, but because there is a gap between those who use the road and the authorities that allow us to deploy more roads faster. I am pleased that the Advance Party has also recognised the need for tolls after they have entered the government. Then I'm going to focus on the matter itself, and then I'm going to focus on the so-called transitional arrangements for interest compensation for toll loans. Firstly, we are very pleased that the Harstad package has finally arrived in Stortinget, and we have therefore been prepared to deal with this matter in an urgent manner. Secondly, however, we are disappointed that the government, when the committee has said that it is prepared to deal with an urgent matter of the Harstad package, also filed a case in principle on the abolition of the calculation technical interest rate of 6.5 p.m. for toll loans. I hope that the Minister for Transport will later see that the matter of the calculation technical interest rate and its suspension is a matter of general principles. It should have been treated as a matter of its own, and not as part of the Harstad package. I would like the Minister of Transport to give us an answer as to how he wants to deal with the Stortinget and the Committee on Procedures for the Future. In any case, the working party does not want to postpone the treatment of the Harstad package, even though some of the principles we now say in part yes to, should have been much more carefully treated and had a normal procedure. The working party is in favour of discussing and looking at reasonable changes and adjustments to the calculation technical interest rate for toll loans and toll tariffs. If you set the interest rate down, the advantage is that it will benefit the drivers, at a lower rate per pass. The reason for these drivers is that the toll collection period of the specific project will increase. The calculation technical interest rate is currently 6,5 pst. It may make sense, as I said, to change it so that there is more consistency between the calculation technical interest rate and the actual interest rate of the toll project. But it is important here that a new interest rate is set realistically and in the long term, so that there is a buffer for interest rate changes in a long-term perspective. The working party is also concerned about the possibility of getting a faster downtime instead, i.e. less financial costs, for road projects currently toll-financed. This is the actual reality at present, if the interest rate is too high. Although the Workers' Party is in favour of discussing and looking at reasonable changes and adjustments to the calculation technical interest rate for toll loans, this does not mean that the Workers' Party has now joined the government's forthcoming proposal for an interest-rate compensation scheme. At present, we see the notified scheme as compensating and granting subsidies to the toll companies, because they have too high actual interest costs. If this is true, then there will be another and more bureaucratic method of adding more state capital to the road projects. But if the government's announced interest compensation scheme is really about adjusting the calculation technical interest rate for toll loans, we are more positive. Therefore, the Workers' Party will wait and decide on such an interest compensation scheme when the government returns to the Stortinget with a more concrete proposal. In this context, I would also like to refer to the written questions we have asked in connection with the handling of this matter, which are attached to the submission. I would like to ask the Council and the Ministry to complete the answers to questions 8 and 13, so that the Storting can better assess different aspects of, and the risk of, lifting the calculation technical interest rate for toll loans. We look forward to the answers, and I also look forward to a proper and concrete proposal for proper treatment in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4353	This is an important matter, with which a lot of work has been done in the committee in a short time. The President-in-Office, Helge Orten, has had a clear statement, so I will not extend the evening unnecessarily. But I'll say some words. The number of toll trailers on Stortinget has increased from 77 pst. in the previous period to nearly 84 pst. during this period – not 100 p.m., as the representative Sund said. The reason why we in the Progress Party have now agreed in this period that we can vote for tolls is precisely that we see that the drivers will have a better arrangement by participating and negotiating. In this case, the Council of State has made it possible for the State to increase its share by 378 million. kr. This is in line with the government platform, which says that we should increase the appropriations for transportation, while at the same time having a lower share of toll. Furthermore, the cost of a lower interest rate could be reduced by an additional 240 million. kr, and the collection costs will be reduced by at least 60 million. kr. For 40 years, we've been in opposition without getting through. We've lost all toll stuff. Now we are in government, and thanks to us, the drivers in Harstad will not pay 678 million. NOK, which they would otherwise have had to pay, if we were in opposition. With the Harstad Road Package, better capacity shall be provided on the main road system at the centre of the city. The main project is the construction of a tunnel outside the centre to relieve the downtown and municipal streets, which will contribute to increased road safety during a time when traffic volumes are expected to increase considerably. The tunnel will also free up land and facilitate better conditions for public transport, walking and cycling. At the same time as the Harstad Road Package, transitional arrangements and changes in tariff and collection arrangements are also presented. It's here that one can base interest rates other than 6.5 pst, which will have a major impact on the calculation of rates in toll stations in this package, but also in 13 other projects. The Ministry of Transport asks Stortingen to have the power to make these changes, and of course we will end up doing so. Finally, I would like to remind you that the government is working on a general toll reform, with the aim of reducing administrative and financing costs and operating and purchasing costs. This is a reform that will benefit the drivers, where more of the tolls will go to road construction and less to interest and administration. With such a toll reform, the tariffs in Harstad are likely to be further reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4370	It's a pleasure to be able to treat the Harstad package today. This is a project that I just have to say that it has been working well from Troms and the politicians in Harstad for many years. The road package contains important elements to help improve traffic flows in the centre of the city, by facilitating completely new conditions for, among others. public transport. Important road safety measures will be put in place, not least through the construction of continuous walking and cycling routes. Enterprise transport is better promoted, and the tunnel from Seljestad to Sama will be in place in the first sub-project with which one will start. There is no doubt that this contributes to a further uplift in a city in Troms that is marked by optimism and belief in the future – a city that has had a fine growth in recent years and that can now facilitate further development in an offensive way. But this case also includes, as it has been submitted to the Stortinget, the advance of an interest-rate compensation scheme. Provision is made for the introduction of a transitional arrangement until interest-rate compensation for toll loans is established. This is a transitional arrangement which shall apply not only to the Harstad package but to several toll projects listed in the proposal. In our view, it is unfortunate that a person should treat a principle that applies to many toll projects, as part of the case of the Harstad package. It should have been such that the matter of interest compensation, together with any transitional arrangements, is dealt with as a separate matter, regardless of the Harstad package. This is about principles to be used for all toll projects in the future, as we see the government. So I also want to say that, on our part, we want to meet the issue of interest compensation with an open mind, but there are important issues related to the arrangement of such a scheme that need to be discussed and carefully assessed, because we know that toll compensation schemes have been adopted locally, often through fragile compromises, how many conflicting considerations are behind the scheme. It is therefore important not to add to the system centrally based on local consensus, or to reduce the effects that you have wanted to achieve with the tolling system, or, in the worst case, to eliminate them altogether. This applies, for example: where one has adopted a differentiated toll charge in order to reduce the number of cars entering urban centres in the morning and afternoon in order to make more people choose collectively. This has been done by increasing the rates in the rush to have a lower rate for the rest of the day. It will then be important to set up an interest-rate compensation scheme so that a local government can continue to have a local governance that will enable the effects envisaged to continue to be achieved. This is one of several issues of the proposed system we want to come back to when the matter is referred to Stortinget. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we welcome the efficiency of toll collection that the proposition mentions. Studies show that the smaller the toll companies, the greater the proportion of tolls goes to administration. Larger units can benefit from the economies of scale, if well organised. I think therefore it is a good move to get fewer toll companies, while also here it will be important to discuss how this can be done in a good way for those companies that are already established. Here there will be a need to lay out some carrots, which I have also realized the ministry intends to do. The introduction of a mandatory toll bar for all vehicles is a measure that has already been demonstrated to have a high savings effect. The size has adopted it for heavy-duty vehicles. There are important reasons for efficiency to make this also applicable to the rest of the vehicles on Norwegian roads. By facilitating a system that can apply to both roads and ferries, a major step will be taken towards simplification and saving administrative costs. I refer you to the good presentation of the case by the case rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4391	First of all, the Harstad package: I am very pleased that we can now make a decision that will give Harstad and its surroundings better center conditions and access to the city. I myself have been and seen how traffic can be there – it is densely packed, and it does not provide room for action in order to develop the city in a good way. What has been explained earlier is very positive also for public transport, which will get better solutions when this is in place. That's very good. I'm really glad it's coming. I know that both Harstad and Trom County have asked for it and waited longingly for it to be treated, so that's good. So to what's going on in the transitional arrangements for the interest-rate compensation scheme for toll loans. Like several people who have been on the pulpit, I think it is very unfortunate that you put up to deal with a fundamental question in a matter that is essentially about financing a solution for the Harstad package. There have been some challenges in such a short time to get involved in the matter, it has not been easy, and I understand that the time pressure for all parties is such that it is not easy to answer everything we ask in such a short time. But I'm asking that the Council of State later don't add up to such a kind of treatment of principle questions, because I think it makes sense that the whole Stortinget gets the opportunity to go deep when you make fundamental changes, and comes up with different kinds of things of that nature. I look forward to discussing fundamental questions, I want it, I want to see it in a whole. This is why it is all the more important to suggest that the treatment for posterity becomes so that we have the opportunity to ask questions, to have hearings and to have the opportunity to really deepen ourselves in it. Nevertheless, the Centre Party chooses to participate in the treatment that has been prepared. We believe it is overall positive for Harstad that they will get it solved now. That is why we do not want to contribute to postponing the matter. We have clearly stated in the remarks that we do not join that arrangement. We ask that there be a matter for the Stortinget where you can look at the principal questions and the whole of the tolling sector and the interest compensation system, and then we'll decide when we get a real round on it. Finally, there are also remarks where we say that we are positive about improving the efficiency and improvement of the toll sector, and that we have already taken action in the national transport plan to propose fewer toll companies and coordinate tariff and discount systems in order to reduce administrative costs and operate more efficiently. We also look forward to having a toll bar for heavier vehicles – also seen in the light of the fact that it will help to make the toll collection more efficient. In addition, there are two other positive elements – that we get more control of foreign vehicles, and that we ensure an equivalent framework for the industry we are talking about. Then I've explained the views of the Center Party. I started by saying that I am very happy that we are making decisions in the Harstad package today – that is the overall one – and then we look forward to a case that gives us the opportunity to take a closer look at the steps proposed for the interest-rate compensation scheme for toll loans.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4410	I just want to say that it is very good that the Harstad package is adopted today. And I want to pay tribute to the Minister of Transport for presenting it to us, so that we have the opportunity to get it in place, because it has an important urban development effect for Harstad and in particular solves many traffic problems. It's always the case that when we talk to our local teams, where there will now be proposals – I would say – for road projects, railway projects and other things that local people have been working for for some time, it's always fun to track down when the final decision in the Stortinget comes. That is why I think it is good that we now get the funding that has been provided for the Harstad package. So at the same time, as far as the interest-rate compensation system is concerned, I fully agree with what many previous speakers have said, that it is stupid to get it this way here, where we get a transitional arrangement for the interest-rate compensation scheme. We say something about how it's going to be, and then a bunch of projects are going to be involved for the future. I think that's an inexorable way of doing it. We will therefore vote against the two proposals that are set out as paragraph 2 and paragraph 3 of the vote, and ask for the possibility to vote separately in the various points, so that we can say yes to the Harstad package, but no to the two mandates requested by the Ministry of Transport. So I'll ask you some questions and just problematize a little bit. I hope that the Minister for Transport has the opportunity to answer, he has said earlier this week that when you ask, you should get an answer. But it's not always you get an answer, so I encourage him to answer this. I wonder how this will work in practice, and how the Minister for Transport thinks it will work in practice. I'm basically skeptical of an interest-rate compensation scheme that, in reality, as it seems to me, will lead to lower rates initially. You get less toll, but reducing toll rates is basically just "to pee in your pants to keep warm" – an expression I used two days ago with luck – for what you do is that you reduce toll collection, but in reality, a mere toll payment pushes out on time. In other words, a sheep spread this over a long period of time. Why you have to do that, I'm not sure, unless there's government money there. And if you prioritize government money, I would say that prioritizing government money into an interest-rate compensation scheme is wrong, because prioritizing more money on the way is not what we need. If we have already reached an agreement, prioritizing more money will be at the expense of other important societal tasks, whether it is a cycle path, a railway effort – here the Minister will say that this is already spending more money on – or other important societal tasks, such as school, care for the elderly, etc. This spring we have, among other things. discussed kindergartens and the importance of government intervention in order not to cover the increased costs of municipalities for kindergartens. The other side of this is that the interest-rate compensation scheme has been a targeted approach to contribute to more maintenance – and I have thought that this has been right with the municipalities, at school, on the road and elsewhere. But I want to say that a targeted interest-rate compensation scheme that involves more money for new roads, in no way is a targeted incentive to do more of what we believe the municipalities and counties are doing too little of today. That is why I believe it is wrong with such a type of arrangement. The last question I want to ask the Minister of Transport about this is the impact this will have on government appropriations. What are the consequences of reducing toll collection, i.e. reducing the rate of interest set, for the state annual appropriations in a development phase for projects that will come under that interest compensation scheme? With that, I've explained what we're going to do, and I look forward to a response from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4434	I am very pleased that the Stortinge today adopts the Harstad package. It's an important package for the city. I've been up there myself, looking at many of the areas that you're now planning to build in, and there's no doubt that there are important projects. It provides sufficient capacity on the main road system in the centre of the city, and the main project is the construction of a tunnel outside the centre to relieve the centre streets and municipal streets of the upper city. It frees up land and better facilitates public transport, cycling and walking. This I am pleased to be adopted so unanimously. The measures with new tunnel on the left. 83 outside the centre is considered essential in order to reduce car traffic. The tunnel is 1,450 meters long outside the center of the town of Seljestad to Sama. The package also includes seven roundabouts, junctions, noise shields, on- and off-road ramps from Rv. 83 and road improvements. There are also several measures that improve conditions for public transport, cycling and walking. The total cost estimate for the road package is about 1.5 billion. kr. I am also very pleased that a caregiver in Stortinget said that the state share has increased significantly, by about 370 million. kr, compared to that accepted locally. Then I'm very happy that the majority of people are also saying that one should reduce the cost of the drivers through the interest-rate compensation scheme and the reform of the tolls. The authority we're given, we'll use to discuss with local authorities how you can improve the arrangement, for example. by not having two-way collection, but one-way collection instead. Only that grip will save the drivers for 60 million. in the case of unnecessary expenditure. In addition, the interest-rate compensation scheme could save the car lists for between 250 and 410 million. NOK when the plan is fully up and running. This is not because you are withdrawing the deposits in time, as SV is trying to seduce you. This is about the state ensuring that the State’s capital resources are used to reduce interest costs and compensate them above the State budget rather than to have unnecessarily high taxes and charges for residents around the country. This means that the drivers will get lower rates in the bombings, but it also means that when the scheme is complete, a few increased discounts on the bombings will occur. That in itself will also be an increased incentive to use bomb tiles. That again will reduce the administrative costs and make more of the money go to the road and less to administration and interest. I am very pleased that almost all the parties support those proposals, for this is a very different toll policy than the one that the previous government adopted less than a year ago. I am very pleased that the Central Party and the Workers' Party, although they do not now conclude that they support the government, do not completely reject it, but are willing to turn down the policy they themselves led in government. That's good. So I see and hear that someone thinks that there are too many fundamental decisions being made in this matter. Then I remind you that the interest compensation scheme was mentioned in Prop. 97 S, as Stortinget has already been treated. So what we're doing here is we're putting the content of the first project into practice. So it's no news what's here, but it's too much new when we put it into practice. I'm still glad that the bulk of the population wants this, because they see it makes sense for the drivers and makes better use of the resources. I think it's interesting when the Workers' Party today thinks that tolls are very good, while we just two days ago in this Chamber heard from the same workers' party people that buying roads on pay or on credit was reprehensible. I remember that money was also borrowed for the Harstad package. That's exactly what the toll is going to pay off. So either the Labour Party has to accept that they're to buy the way on credit, or they're against it. And when they're in opposition, they can actually do exactly what they mean. Today's government has a compromise that says that we should buy less way on credit than what it was added to. Unfortunately, it will be done in a period to come. I am pleased with the decisions that are being taken. Now we can take new steps to start building these important road projects and the important walking and cycling road projects, because it is about getting better access in Harstad. There will be many corresponding packages in the future that we are now working on to get in place. The Bodø package is one of those that has also been important, where one finds good solutions. And although one should of course adopt things as quickly as possible, I think the inhabitants of Harstad think that it has been used a few months extra on this, it has been worth it, when one can save – yes, about half a billion dollars in unnecessary taxes and taxes compared to what the previous government provided. It gets to be an extra gift for being patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4453	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4457	I want to remind the Council of State, when he says that it has been notified before this comes, that this came very quickly – it gets treated as quickly as I think a rare person does. When we then lack answers to a lot of the questions we have, they are the ones we demand. Then it's that if you're concrete, it doesn't feel concrete enough, and it's far from just the Workers' Party and the Center Party asking those questions. That is why I am not going to ask the Council of State what the scheme should be, but I want to ask him when he comes back to Stortinget with concrete proposals where we can assess the different aspects, and also assess the risk of this. Then I want, since it's the next day before the summer break starts, to wish the Council a good holiday and a good ride on the E6 in the camper. You have to drive carefully, because we want to have you safely back again, since we're going to have many questions for you also for the autumn. So good summer!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4464	Thank you for that, and thank you for the congratulations. I am delighted to drive many places where I know that this government has removed the trees that were planned, and in some places even the foundations are still standing, as outside of Alta. So we can actually see the results of our own policy, and more so. With regard to the toll reform, it will come as a separate matter to the Stortinget to its full extent. What we've been dealing with now is mentioned in Prop. 97 S, and a concrete statement in this case here, where one takes the transitional arrangement. This means that one in the first round now does not grant money, but that one changes the computational technical conditions that make it possible for the drivers to benefit from it when the toll reform is in progress. But it gives us a space for action to negotiate what will be the good solution. This is a different approach from what I felt that the previous government had, where one used their last months in government to remove many discount schemes, or reduce them down to 10 pst., from 50 pst., in the Oslofjord tunnel. It shows us another willingness to take the drivers seriously and the taxpayers seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4471	Yes, it is not dangerous when the minister takes care of road problems in Norway. It can at least sound like that, even if it's as far ahead of the adopted NTP as the red-green ones showed up. The road package that we are about to adopt today has reduced self-financing by about 370 million. kr – new, fresh state money. It's in itself good for the drivers on this route, just like it was on Helgeland. But that's not necessarily the best thing in terms of road development overall, because that actually means finding alternative funding for these millions, which in turn means that it can go beyond other projects, or you have to raise fresh funds. At least there will be no more meters of road. Lifting up fresh funds could, as I said, have gone even further in these projects. Then, of course, I wonder: when and how will the Minister come forward with proposals for the deposit to the Stortingen for these 370 million? Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4478	I think it's a little interesting to get criticism from the Workers' Party because we're reducing tolls, but nevertheless the Workers' Party votes every time for what they criticize us for doing. So the Labour Party has to decide whether they either agree with the government's policy when they vote for it, or whether they are really against it, and then they should vote against it. But it's obvious that the Workers' Party sees that what the government is doing is so popular locally that they don't dare vote against it. I just remind you that after this government joined, we have removed toll loads in Alta at 0.5 billion. kr. Mo in Rana, or the Helgelands package, gets 300-400 million. kr less in toll load. Now we have a Harstad package, which comes up to 0.5 billion. kr. Only on the three projects have Norse drivers saved 1.5 billion. kr because of the government change. It's pretty formidable sums. It will be decided in the annual budgets how we prioritise, but we have given more money to go, more money for asphalting, more for new projects – and even less for tolls. It's about using the money efficiently and making them go further.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4487	I understand that the minister is trying to talk away from the heavy bombing that they also have to decide on. But I don't think he answered anything well about my question, which was whether you can expect this to be funded. Or does that mean that it goes beyond other road projects, which, once again, means that there's going to be less way for the money? So it's interesting the reasoning he tried to use in relation to the Workers' Party, that you're a little surprised that we're too much money. You shouldn't be. Then you draw a comparison with OPS. Does the Minister not believe that there will be extra costs if you have both tolls and OPS than just having a toll project? Because that's what you're trying to say. Then it's interesting to hear your answer, if you can answer both of these questions, if there's going to be the same way, will there be less way? And doesn't OPS cost any more?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4496	The President will show that all speeches are to be made through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4499	No, OPS road projects do not cost any more in themselves. In fact, you can get savings by getting more efficient planning and implementation and better maintenance. But funding can cost more if you end up binding interest rates at a higher level. That's what's a little strange when the Workers' Party compares to the three OPS projects that have been in Norway. Thus, interest rate agreements were concluded many years ago, when interest rates were generally higher. If you compare interest rates on public and private bomb projects in the same time horizons, the interest rate level is not significantly different. That's the one. When it comes to whether this is going to go at the expense of other road projects, I have already responded to it, because I have pointed out that this government has accelerated the planning of seven road projects and has accelerated the design of five road projects for which the red-greens had not planned money. We're finishing the E18 in Westfold a lot earlier, we're asphalting 10 pst. more than the red-green plan, and we get reduced tolls. That shows that we can do both.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4506	I have a question that concerns changes in computational interest rates, and I state that it is a matter of economic reality and not rhetoric. Let's say you're going to fund a project of 1 billion. NOK on a road where there are 40000 cars per day. Then there's a toll rate of $20. And then you change the computational interest rate, and so you put the toll down to $15. It is good for the drivers who run there every now and then. But my question is, will the total cost of this project go up or down? Will the total toll bill for the drivers be higher or lower?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4513	As the representative Pollestad takes it up, the price will be higher. But that's not the government's policy. The government's policy is that one should also compensate for interest costs, so that one does not extend the amortisation period. That's the error with the project that the representative Pollestad is putting up with. If you are going to pay off the same debt at a lower rate per pass and everything else equal, you have to spend several years paying off. Then you must also have the operation at the toll stations up further. That is why the government has proposed that we reduce the tariffs by covering the interest cost by the state. It is essential in this context. It has also left the representative Pollestad out of his written questions. I think we should discuss the realities here and not operate polemics, which I fully agree with the representative of Pollestad. But then one also has to ask questions about what the government is actually proposing. The fact is, the drivers in Harstad will save at least 260 million. NOK, probably SEK 410 million. kr when the interest compensation is up and running, not by spreading the loan over several years, but by taking more of the cost of financing from the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4522	Then I go to what is the interest compensation scheme itself, as the Council of State pointed out. In several budgetary processes, there has been a technical response that if one receives more money instead of having an interest-rate compensation scheme, one prefers to increase the State share. Same way as if a private individual wins $1 million. kr in lotto, and has 6 million. If you put in that million and pay down the mortgage, or if you put the money in a bank account and you don't pay the bank's interest every month, will you get the most if you put the money in the bank account? What does the total cost of these two do the highest or lowest?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4527	I can tell you how the government thinks about the system we have, and it depends on us wanting to give a boost to the bomb companies that are around the country today, to join a few bomb companies. By entering one of the major regional or state companies that you set up, a few will compensate for their interest expenses. We can't force bombers to change the structure, but we can stimulate them, and we do that with the interest compensation scheme. If everyone had been given an increased government share, they would have been deprived of the incentive to reform the system, so the interest-rate compensation scheme is important. So it's important in this context that when you collect all the tolls, from having them in 50-60 companies down to 2-3, they have a completely different lending capacity in the market. This means that they can negotiate lower interest rates, and then the state saves money by the level being lower than it would be when you had individual loans, and thus it becomes less that has to be compensated for in the government budget. So it's a win-win situation for the drivers and the taxpayers.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4535	I experience, with all due respect, that there's a bit of talk out of both oral weeks in this case, and I'll explain why. That's not the way the Council of State puts it, that if you remove discounts for someone, it gets cheaper. It just means that at the moment when someone pays more, someone else is going to pay less, or that means that the total payoff time is going to be longer. It's not like you're just giving discounts to everyone, it's getting cheaper for everyone. No, then there will be longer payoffs and more expensive for those who do not have discounts. In connection with this question, the assumption of the Council of State Ketil Solvik-Olsen is that we should put in place an interest-reimbursement mechanism that makes the state cover it. But that's not what the case says. What is at stake is that the changes in the interest rate of calculation will not in themselves have consequences for government promises. The question is: does the Council of State agree that if you reduce the toll rate, it will be longer and therefore more expensive?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4544	Then you have to see that in the context of what we're giving you in Prop. S 97, that this is a transitional arrangement, not the final solution. It's the same fault that the representative Pollestad does, that he asks questions like it's the final solution, and doesn't see it as part of what's going to happen. The point of what we're doing is we're saying that we're collecting debt in some big companies. And then you're going to get the interest rate down. It saves AS Norway whether it is the taxpayers or the drivers you take as a starting point. Lower interest rates mean that the financial world is losing revenue. So we're going to do something about collection costs and administration. Then everyone saves money. And then you have to compensate for the remaining interest, because you don't get free interest. It compensates for the state budget. So you get a cost on the state budget, but the inhabitants, who are both drivers and taxpayers, will save a total of hundreds of millions of dollars on this because they don't pay so much in administrative expenses, and they don't pay a higher interest rate than they had to do. That's why this is a very good and efficient way to get the built roads cheaper. And when you first have tolls, this is nevertheless a less painful way than the red-green ones did.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4555	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4558	Finally came the Harstad package. We've been asking for it for a long time, because we wanted to deal with it in this session. It went that far. That is why we have helped to get it dealt with urgently – all the favours of the case rapporteur, who has left it in port – even though some of the principles we are now agreeing to, should have been much more carefully dealt with and had a normal procedure. Then I don't think about the Harstad package, but I'm thinking about the transitional arrangement to lower the computational interest rate from today's 6.5 pst. to a new minimum level of 2,8 pst. What we're supposed to be aware of is that you can actually risk increasing the risk in the projects. Today, however, the Workers' Party is pleased that the Harstad package has finally arrived in Stortinget, and we know that Harstad has been waiting for it. However, there has not been a simple path to treatment today. The Harstad package has been treated several times in Harstad municipal administration. They only said yes before the 2011 elections. So the new municipal government said no in December 2011 after the Progress Party went into the election campaign and promised the Road Package without tolls. But then they turned back to yes in 2012 after the tollings, perhaps some of the first in the country, went on trains for a yes toll. The newly elected Labour Party rapporteur then brought the matter up again, and they went in for the Harstad package. As far as tolls are concerned, as I said, the Workers' Party supports the use of tolls, not because we want the most tolls, because there is a gap between those who use the road and the authorities, which allows us to build more roads faster. I am pleased that the Advance Party has also recognised the need for tolls after they have entered the government. Traffic on rv. 83 through Harstad has been great for years. This has led to traffic disruption problems and is also a major cause of urban core pollution. The transport system in Harstad is currently poorly organised for public transport, and there is a lack of continuity for both walking and cycling along the highway. The Harstad road package has a total frame of over 1.5 billion. kr. Plus $40 million. kr from the County of Trom for increased collective services. Harstad will now have a good solution as a result of the municipality saying yes to a partially toll-financed road package. This will provide Harstad with a good and forward-looking solution for both walking, cycling and driving. Of this, 926 million is going to be. kr is financed from tolls. The government has also committed more government money to this project, which has to be financed over the years to come. We now see this practice in several projects, and if other projects are not to be reduced, the appropriations need to be increased. It is also a weakness in this project that you have not prepared where to pick up the funds. One also experiences in this debate that both the Progress Party and the Council of State add positions and opinions to the Workers' Party that we do not have. I would therefore like to stress that the Workers' Party is open to, and would like to welcome, new and smarter models to build roads. The working party is also concerned that the community will get the most out of the money. In that context, I would like to point out what the government calls its toll reform. I must then be allowed to mention that it was the red-green government that started this review through the treatment of NTP. There's enough honor for everyone here, and I therefore urge the majority parties, the government and the state councils to stop running this history fake. I hope that the Minister for Transport will later see that the issue of the calculation technical interest rate and its rise is about general principles. It is as many people in this debate have said: it should have been treated as a matter of its own and not as a matter of urgency as part of the Harstad package, because we do not know the full consequences of this decision either. At least it can mean less flexibility for those inside the package.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4577	Together with the representatives of Gudmundsen and Korsberg from Troms, I will send a great greeting from the Harstad region to the government and the Stortinget for the good work that has been done in this matter. With the significant commitment of the Right-wing Party Government to transport, combined with a new policy where new ideas and better solutions provide more way for the same money, it is very gratifying to be able to share in making decisions today. The Harstad package gets a raise of 370 million. Thanks to this government's political course. We bet in the north, and business welcomes our solutions. The package will be an important vitamin injection into the Harstad community and trigger important business projects. The new toll company significantly reduces costs by opening up a model where only one direction is required and where administrative and development costs are reduced by millions. The drivers pay for the road, not interest and administration. In addition, the government has notified an interest compensation scheme. What it will mean for this project is too early to suggest, but also here the government contributes, so that the project is paid faster down through user funding, and where the cost of financing is as low as possible. The government dares to think new, bet and deliver electoral promises in more ways. I would also like to thank the Transport Committee and the rapporteur for their timely work and for the fact that the matter is being dealt with here today. This means a lot and means that you can probably put the spade in the ground already until the harvest. The faster you get started and target, the faster the Harstad community can take effect and fulfill the promise that this investment will give. I look forward to the further work and the rapid realization of the road package. The oil town of Harstad today, with this investment, is taking an important step into the North Region initiative of this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4596	It was essentially quite interesting to listen to the representative Alexandrova. I have to remember that when she sounds very euphoric, it is well to cover that government has given with one hand to North Norway, they have taken – at least twice – again with the other. So the sum is going to be negative, if we're going to evaluate it, and I think most people in North Norway are going to see that. The Harstad package that Stortinget is currently dealing with is a long-awaited total transport solution for the city at Vågsfjorden in South Troms. The aim is for Harstad to have in the future a transport system that ensures good traffic flow and a good living environment that makes it safe and pleasant to go, ride or stay in the centre. This ambitious traffic package has some outlined main objectives, including: reducing traffic on rv. 83 in the centre with 40 pst., allow for a continuous walk and cycle road network, ensure full accessibility, predictable travel time and regularity of the main bus routes and good overall performance on Rv. 83 and on roads from the main residential and economic areas which cross it. There are many good reasons to be happy that this transport effort can now be realised. I would like to point out in particular that the Harstad package attaches great importance to improving the conditions for pedestrians and cyclists. The fortau, the bicycle field and the walk and cycle path of a total of 30 km will provide the city with a continuous walking and cycling network. About 16,000 of Harstad's residents live within a distance of 5 km, which thus represents a quite reasonable distance for cycling. With a good walking and cycling network as well as safe overpasses and downhills, allowing pedestrians and cyclists to avoid crossing traffic, it will be much easier for more people to choose to ride or go to work, school or other activities. Today, most vulnerable road users in Harstad have to travel along traffic-laden roads. The Harstad package will radically change this. Then I want to point out that Harstad municipality as the first municipality in Norway was approved as a member of the WHO network for what is called Safe Communities in 1994, with renewed membership in 2003. The background was eight years of active harm prevention work among all age groups and risk environments. Safe Communities, or Safe communities known as the Norwegian variant, have traffic safety in the local environment as one of their main concerns. This is why the project’s good collective solutions and the organisation of soft road users go straight into a work that Harstad has focused on for many years. It was a while when the Harstad package was hanging in a thin thread. The progress party locally would not want to be part of the financing of this large-scale transport effort. However, at the municipal elections in 2011, the voters in Harstad gave a vote of confidence to parties who had agreed to toll financing and thus agreed to the Harstad package. Then, as the representative Juvik also said, it became a new no after the elections – with the Progress Party at the head – before finally saying yes again in 2012. It is very gratifying that the Storting today will say the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4613	Let me first say that it is very gratifying that we will now tonight adopt the Harstad package, which I know many have waited impatiently for for a long time. The decision to be taken by the Stortinget this evening is of great importance to people living in Harstad, it is of great importance to improve road safety, to manage traffic growth, and not least to the environment. It's a joyous evening for Harstad, for Troms and for us who are concerned about the best for that region. And I feel that there are a lot of people in this room who are, not least in the Storting Transport Committee, and I am very happy that we have a transport committee that has shown in particular in this case that you are very results-oriented and pragmatic, and that you can start working on it. I should like to congratulate all the parties in the Committee on very constructive cooperation on this matter. It has been demanding in such a short time to consider some of the elements of the transitional arrangements for the interest compensation scheme. You understand that, and you have a great deal of understanding that the opposition parties needed to ask some questions and get answers, but I'm very happy that you also wanted to support the transitional regime that the government is putting up with. I have a great deal of understanding that the Workers' Party and the Centre Party from the pulpit today also emphasise that they want to take a final position on the matter when it comes, and that the Christian People's Party and the Left also look forward to the matter being brought before the Stortinget. All in all, it should be a pleasure to vote for the Harstad package tonight, and it is also that almost all of the parties in the Stortinget also agree on the elements of what is in the transitional arrangement. I must also be allowed, as committee chairman, to wish the Transport Committee a really good summer, and we look forward to many good transport debates after the summer, when we are assembled again for the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4628	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The President finds reason to recall that it is evening.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4633	I would like to comment on the part of the proposition relating to the transitional regime. Let me first say that I am not awake at night because if the government increases the traffic budget or reduces the toll ratio. That's good, and a little symbolism has to be tolerated. But I find reason to warn against the marketing that the government and the Council of State have of this matter, for this is in reality only an adjustment of the calculation technical interest rate for toll projects. It's unproblematic. If I don't remember completely wrong, it was also the case that the previous government asked the Directorate of Road to assess whether the calculation rate was 6,5 pst. made sense. If that's the answer we get now, I won't worry about it. The solution that the government is now putting forward to reduce tolls will, after all sunmarks, increase the total toll bill for Norwegian drivers. This is comparable to going to the bank and asking for lower monthly instalments: everyone knows that the total cost then increases, even if the monthly payments are slightly lower. Lower fares may also contribute to slightly higher traffic through toll stations, but on the other hand, several years of collection will result in an increase in total collection costs. I have asked written questions to the Council of State about the 13 toll projects. It was a written question, Document No. 15:920 for 2013–2014, and there I asked to get an estimate of how much such a change will affect the total costs of the projects. I find it quite provocative that the Council of State refused to contribute to such a calculation as I requested in my written question. The council refuses to provide information about this and says it is part of a larger package. The reality is that the Council of State has presented part of a larger package to the Stortinget, and then the Council of State must respond to the part of this package known to the Stortinget. The questioning institute is the possibility for the opposition to avail itself of the competence of the civil service. It's not a channel for state councillor Ketil Solvik-Olsen to play rhetorical champion.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4646	I'll try to be brief. It's the way things happen that happened last time, and then we get blamed for late evenings, but that's the way it is. I just had to take the floor, because there were some statements here that I feel are a little fuzzy, but before I get to them, I want to thank the committee chairman for the wise words. I also thank you for your cooperation, and not to forget that, and I also wish the other members of the committee a good summer. The representative, Regina Alexandrova, said that this led to a faster down payment. No, it's not like that. That's actually what's going on with this project, that it's leading. There is a demand that the gain on this interest rate – which is, in so far, nothing new, because it has been there in the past – is the actual interest rate that the toll company had to deal with, and not the technical interest rate when they started the project. It has been used in the past to reduce the time – then it would have been faster – but what happened to this proposal is that now they do not get the choice, now they are forced to make a choice as to what the interest will be: Should it be floating and low and make a big profit in the short term, or should it be binding and long – small gain? If they make that choice, they're forced to take that win and put the toll down, that's the reality of the proposal. That means you don't get that choice, and then it doesn't get any faster. That's why I want to send a signal to the minister who is now going to bring that matter to the Grand Council, so that he can at least assess whether it might not be a good idea to have an opening because the company, or the projects, will themselves be able to make an assessment of this gain, or the real interest rate – if you want a lower rate, if you want a shorter payoff period, or even get the choice to build more roads? So I'll ask the minister to take it with him and see if it could be a wise suggestion. Then I won't take the discussion around the bet in the north. We had a debate about it yesterday, and I could have guessed that that's not all that indicates that the government is betting just as hard in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4659	I thank Ketil Solvik-Olsen for the answer he gave me, but it's not an answer, and it doesn't help to clarify the debate to show that the whole thing is going to be so nice, when what we're doing improperly today, is to make sure that, overall, will lead to greater payment of tolls for drivers. Because if we look at what was being debated a few days ago, one element I expressed was that I was positive to, fewer toll companies. But in the three sections -- two of them are very short -- in Prop. 97 S for 2013–2014, which is about this, there is no estimate of how much extra money this will save – in other words, extra money to spend on the road. The second piece – which is about money to go out, the interest compensation scheme – will cost the state extra money, as mentioned here, but there is no estimate of how much money is involved. It's just thoughts that are presented on the platform of Ketil Solvik-Olsen – not something that's close to describing that the drivers come out better together. But I'm positive to fewer companies and I'm positive that in theory you can bring in cheaper loans, without the government's estimate of how much money there is. But it's presented as if these two magic grips are going to get enough money to make it cheaper for the drivers to do what they're adding up to and which we're invited to adopt here today, that's to give the municipalities the opportunity to reduce the rates and thus extend the overall payoff time and increase the total interest rates. All of us who have looked at mortgages know that we can extend the down payment time. We see that we have more to route in the month, but the total amount we pay is going to be greater. One of the reasons why this is a little dangerous in the road sector is that the difference between a house and a road is that the road is no longer worth the more you use it, while a house in Norway has traditionally become more valuable as you live in it. You make more money to sleep than to work when you have lived in a house from 1991 onwards. It's not like that. There will be maintenance needs. There will be other expenses. What you do when you push these costs together, the way you do it, in my opinion, is you risk getting into the situation that you trick people into thinking that you get better out because you pay less in tolls, but what they don't know is that they have to pay the toll a lot longer because the interest costs go up overall. When Solvik-Olsen does not present a total calculation, it is not possible to deal with anything other than what we are invited to adopt today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4679	I understand that the need to confuse is considerable. Let me just say, well, the roads also go into value. It is much more expensive to build a new road today than one year and ten years ago. In fact, road costs are rising more than other inflation rates in society. I refuse to agree with the logic that red-green politicians like, that the roads in and out of Oslo have no value after they're built. They have enormous social value. A house must also be maintained. It is not just a road that needs to be maintained and that has costs. A house must also be maintained. If you do not maintain a house, it is not worth much after 10, 15 or 20 years. I hope that the representative Holmås maintains his house, in order to maintain its value. What we're doing here is not fooling ourselves, as many red-green politicians do. We do not go to the bank and ask to suspend the down payment. We're going to ask the bank to get a lower fee and a lower interest rate. But we're not asking not to pay our loan. That's what's kind of weird here: we're presenting a package where we're saying we're going to have fewer bomb companies and fewer collection points. Only at collection points will the drivers in Harstad save 60 million. kr. Then we say that we have a transitional arrangement that takes us one step towards making sure that in the future the interest expense on that loan will be compensated. You get the loan together. Then you get a lower interest rate. It saves us money. Then, through the State budget, the state is going to compensate for the remaining interest expenditure. Thus, despite the lower fare, the drivers will have much less debt to pay down, or much less total cost, because now every penny they pay is going to pay down the loan itself instead of covering the interest expenses, because they're taking the state. Then you don't extend the discount, but you reduce the rates. The cost is reduced. Then you have to have a little bit bigger appropriations on the state budget, but you're going to save on total, because you don't need much interest, and you don't have any administration. Now I hope the representatives Eidsvoll Holmås and Pollestad have noted. It's kind of strange to hear red-green politicians who, every time this government does something smart, say it was in the NTP. I have to remind you that 6.5 pst. interest rate was also calculated on the basis of NTP. No change was adopted. It was not decided to have two or three toll companies. At best, you would have a toll company in each state. Then you don't get the same winnings. But I'm very happy that red-green politicians now think that what the government is proposing is so good that you'll be taking credit for it. Nothing is better than that we all stand together and defend the changes we propose. To the representative Juvik – the most expensive man in North Norway: I would like to remind you that this government has made sure that the toll costs for people in North Norway have dropped by at least 1.5 billion. kr. There's quite a lot of money, maybe not for a raiser for North Norway, but I think the business will notice it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4696	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4699	I just want to point out that I think it is problematic that the government comes to the Storting with syllable documents and non-slip conclusions that we have no opportunity to get into and be on, because no numbers have been presented. It is presented here as if this is very economical for drivers. Well, we actually don't know anything about that, because what we're invited to adopt here today is just something that will make it more expensive for drivers: the opportunity to extend the payoff time by putting down the tariffs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4704	I have no desire to draw the debate out in the late hours of the night, but, like the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, I must say that I am reacting very strongly to a Council of State which, at the end of the session, presents a matter of a very positive road package in Harstad, which they have waited a long time for, which contains several fundamental questions, and where a joint committee – I ask the Council of State to note the submission of both the case rapporteur and the committee leader – responds to the fact that this is presented to the principle assessment without the basis for which we can expect. When he then gets the word and the opportunity in the hall – through both line change and post – he does not use the time to inform the matter, but uses his usual tiara about the red-green ones. There maybe my president shares my opinion that it can make the evenings in this room a little long.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4711	Let me draw your attention to the proposition, page 7, table 5.2. There is an overview of different borrowing rates, different tariffs, different financing costs and different collection costs. It says clearly that if you go from two-way collection to one-way collection, you will save 60 million. kr. That number has been documented. So here's a different point: if you go from 6.5 pst to 6.5 pst. to 2.8 pst. how the cost of financing goes down. Then you have to take into account that you also have to compensate for the interest expenses, that you have to collect the loan in order to bring down the interest rate. There's a real saving. Administrative protection is a real saving. But covering the remaining interest costs is the transfer of costs – there is no doubt about it. It goes from the drivers directly to the taxpayers. But already here it is seen that there are significant millions of dollars in real savings for the drivers in the Harstad area. If you don't want to look at the table, you can't do that. But now we've explained quite many times how the whole of this system is. I record that those who are now criticizing us and choosing to say that we are arrogant because we do not accept their arguments, relate to a small part of the whole and try to convince that that is only the case. But I think the majority in this room have seen where the whole thing is, that it's about administrative costs, real interest costs and the transfer of some of the costs from the drivers to the state budget. It is in line with the policy that this government wants. We're going to bring down the toll percentage, and that's exactly what we're delivering. At the same time, we're going to build multiple roads. That means we have to give more money to go, while at the same time we give money to delete some toll debts. That's what we get, because it's about prioritizing. It's about spending the money more efficiently. We have managed to speed up the design and planning of a dozen road projects. We have managed to increase the asphaltification in this country, even though the previous government has planned a reduction in asphaltification. We've got more railways in place. We've accelerated a lot of railway terminal work. It shows that what we are doing now, not at the expense of other transport projects, but that, in general, we give higher priority to transport. It's simply because we see this as a good investment. To reduce the cost of business is to secure jobs. Therefore, the entire employer’s fee scheme – as we did not get the results we wanted – will be compensated back to Nord-Norway. So it's not going to go away from the county. The money will come back again. In addition, we have decided to grant 1.5 billion. kr to compensate for interest payable by the red-green government on many toll projects — in Alta, now in Harstad, in Helgeland, and soon Bodø.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4724	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4738	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4753	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4767	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4781	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4795	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4809	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4823	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4837	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4851	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4857	The vote will take place at the next voting time. Eighty-six.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4891	In the course of the debate, Mr Andersen put forward a total of two proposals, the proposals No. 1 and 2, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The development of remuneration of grossing-up representatives, state councils and prime minister is determined on the basis of an increase in the annual crown amount of an average salary in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e4943	Alternatively, there is a vote between the presidency's position and proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘An increase in annual average compensation for grossing-up representatives, prime ministers and government councils in 2014 is set at SEK 17 712, corresponding to approximately an annual average add-on for full-time positions in Norway. In accordance with this, Stortinget agrees that the following remunerations are set with effect from 1 May 2014: Stortingsrepresentatives kr 850 610 pr. year Government members NOK 1 203 567 per year. year Minister of State kr 1,474 159 per year years’»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e5029	During the debate, Mr Vegar Solhjell put forward a proposal, proposal No. 1, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government agrees that the Ministry of Defence in 2014 may initiate implementation of the Joint Strike Missile Development Step 3, given that the cost framework is kept within the previously established framework of the fighter aircraft project.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e5111	The Socialist Left Party has announced that they are voting against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e5476	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party are behind the setting of the I.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e5520	In Case No. 10 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e5545	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e5556	Proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party, during the debate the text was converted into a transmission proposal and reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the government examine how to ensure that any future increases in support schemes are used for the purpose, which is journalism and diversity of opinion.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without any responsibilities. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked not to introduce a static ceiling on production aid.’ Mr Knag Fylkesnes has requested the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e5571	I recommend the SV Group to vote in favour of the proposal from the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e5576	The Central Party, the Left and the Left have announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e5621	It's going to wrestle over you. The President assumes that the Socialist Left and the Greens vote against the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e5636	In the course of the debate, II was withdrawn and therefore not addressed to voting. It's said over III.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e5669	It is voted on over I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e5680	It's said over III.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e5694	During the debate Else-May Botten put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to carry out a comprehensive investigation into issues related to the use of palm oil, including: industrial and health aspects, and to promote this for the Storting.’.» The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e5733	The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e5766	During the debate, Mr Holen Bjørdal put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size consents to a decision of the EEA Committee on the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of the EURES and PROGRESS axes in Regulation No. 1296/2013, Employment and Social Innovation Programme EaSI [[EU]] [[2014-2020]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e5785	The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e5842	The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e5859	All of these matters are the second reading of legal acts, from Act No. 56 up to and including Law No. Sixty-four. There are no proposals for comment on the legislative acts as from Act No. 56 up to and including Law No. 64, and thus the decision of the Stortinge is accepted at second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-19.ana.ud2279e5875	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
