ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e26	The representative of Jørund Rytman, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The representative Freddy de Ruiter applied for welfare leave on 15 and 16 October. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Line Kysnes Vennesland, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e49	Line Kisses Vennesland is present and will take the seat. The representative, Anne Tingelstad Wøien, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e54	I am pleased to promote a representative proposal from Janne Sjelmo Nordås and myself to change the system of national samples to sample samples and reduce testing in primary school.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e59	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e71	On Monday, the Stortinge received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Jan Tore Sanner, Elisabeth Aspaker and Sylvi Listhaug will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Knut Storberget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e78	Wealth has been at the heart of the political debate for a long time, and many will claim that volunteering and voluntary organisations are perhaps the most important part of our national wealth. All, including in the government platform, are strongly committed to improving working conditions for volunteering in Norway. We should strengthen volunteering, because it contributes to both mobilization and important elements in the building of democracy and creates recruitment in many types of fields where we need recruitment. The response is therefore strong in the government's proposals to the state budget, where significant cuts are made in many areas and also deterioration in the working conditions of volunteers. Youth organisations have reacted, many separate non-governmental organisations and student associations that are significantly cut have responded, and today public high schools are going to demonstrate outside the Storting. Each State Council has its responsibility in this area, and I want to ask the Minister of Agriculture questions. Each department has a significant role to play in contributing to the participation of volunteers in its sector, and we also see in the draft budget of the Ministry of Agriculture that it actually chooses to cut significantly in appropriations for voluntary organisations, over 15pst. The working conditions of many important organisations are weakened. My question to the Minister of Agriculture is: Is this about strengthening the voluntary sector in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e85	Many non-governmental organisations are supported by several government budgets. That's why I think there's room to re-prioritize some of the money over my budget. But there's almost 21 million left. kr, which we allocate to different organisations. There we have made a priority that we believe is good – we have among other things. found room for some new organisations – so I am happy with the budget of the volunteer organisations in my area. Policy-making is about prioritizing; it is about giving priority to things and giving priority to other things. I believe that it is important that something in the policy is done. In the case of some of the organisations, they also receive significant support from other budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e92	I fully agree with the Council of State that policy is about priority, but it is precisely from the government platform and numerous political debates that both the Advance Party and the Right and the current government actually want to bet on the volunteers. Then it's going to be 15 pst. and the creation of worse jobs, including: for 4H and some other organisations, a significant step in the direction of the priorities set out in the Government Platform. Some of these organisations – 4H, as mentioned, doing a glittering job in my opinion, Young in Agriculture and others – contribute to ensuring recruitment into the industry. I have heard the Council of State talk a lot about her wanting to prioritise measures that just contribute to recruitment. Does the Council of State see that cutting significantly until these organisations work in the opposite direction and can weaken recruitment into agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e97	No, cutting a little over 400,000 kroner in support of 4H does not mean I would have a negative effect on it. 4H still receives almost one third of the budget allocated to voluntary organisations from the Ministry of Agriculture budget. Then there has been a system, which is under the municipal minister, for many years, where four organisations, including 4H, have had an exclusive right to have office space with the county officials, something that a number of other organisations, such as the feeder organisation KFUK-KFUM, does not have. I believe that it is important to treat the various voluntary organisations in a non-discriminatory manner. That's why I support the initiative of the municipal minister, which means that 4H and the other three have to find offices similar to all the other voluntary organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e104	There will be follow-up questions – first Arild Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e107	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of State. Voluntaryness is central to a well-functioning local democracy. In particular, it is in voluntary organisations that children and young people are trained in democracy, and a strong civil sector is crucial as glue in society. Local democracy is one of the eight areas of government activity and Sanner's responsibility. But the role of volunteering in this is a little bit talked about by the government. The big mountain was inside Listhaug's cut. Listhaug and Sanner jointly throw the voluntary organisations 4H, the Forest Company, the Agricultural Company and the Hage Company out of the offices of the County. This is reflected in the range of many cuts to volunteering, which will affect local democracy. There are many volunteers who are now disappointed by the government, or now say straight away that they feel cheated. The government's proposal to cut local government support is a similar example of local democracy weakening. That's why I think many people now expect the government and Sanner to explain how the government thinks about the role of volunteering in local democracy development, and how all these cuts are going to help strengthen local democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e116	This was a very selective reading of the government's draft budget. The reality is that, in many areas, volunteering is strengthened, including: by the government fulfilling the promise made by the previous government, but where it was not possible to get into the case, of the share of sport in the key. It's a big boost for volunteering, it's a big boost for children and young people, and I'm proud that we're doing it. I am also proud of the work that the Minister of Culture is now doing to create a simpler everyday life for volunteering. For what has happened during the Workers' Party's rule is that it has become more complicated, more bureaucratic. We have now started a work to simplify and red tape the situation of volunteering. With regard to the four organizations that have had free offices at County, I think a lot of other organisations could have thought so. We believe that it is an unjust system, and we believe that it is an unfair system. They will be transitioned until 1 July 2016, one year and nine months of transition.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e123	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e126	My question goes to the Council of State, Listhaug. As the representative Storberget said, recruitment is important for this government. It is then important that initiatives go in the right direction in order to be able to recruit. Now it is more expensive to obtain agricultural property in Norway when the price controls may be lifted. Farms will be more difficult to obtain if you cancel your dwelling. You might also be going in the wrong direction when you're making it harder for 4H. I could ask the Council of State a question about having received many complaints from the county officials about these free offices, but that is not what I want to ask questions about. What I want to ask is whether the Council of State sees the initiatives that the government is putting forward in the wrong direction in terms of recruitment to agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e134	I believe that cutting support for 4H a little, with 400,000 kroner, an organisation that also receives several million kroner in support of the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, is not dramatic in terms of recruitment in agriculture. Removing the concession law that this government wants will lead to us reintroducing the private ownership of farmers. Today we have a situation in which many people would like to buy a farm, but it is difficult to get hold of because there are quite a few who want to sell. So getting a more normal market in this sector I think will make a positive contribution. I agree with the representative that in some areas of Norway this may lead to an increase in prices. In many parts of Norway, prices will be about as they are today. It is also the case that we will soon set up a working group to look at recruitment measures. I have great expectations for that group, and I believe that it can come up with more good measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e143	Heidi Greni – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e146	My supplementary question goes to the Sanner Council. As many people have been involved, Sanner removes free office space from the Forest Company, the Agricultural Company, the Hage Company and 4H from the County. The Ministry of Municipal Affairs and the Ministry of Modernisation is actively involved in the policy of cutting back on voluntary activity. It is not accidental that these organisations have had office space at the County. They are important co-players of the State in the field of agricultural recruitment, which is why they have had a tradition of having it. Over 1,500 young people who are members of 4H will lose part of their offer, and not least the 4H farms will have problems maintaining their operations. It is an incredibly important offer for families with children to get good information about Norwegian food production. What will the Council of State say to the 15 000 young people who are now at risk of losing their activity offer, and to all the families of children who will miss the offer made by the 4H farms? What will be alternative funding?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e155	Let me start by saying that both 4H, the Hage Company, the Agricultural Company and the Norwegian Forest Company do a very good and important job. I am also aware that in some areas there is cooperation between the County and these organisations. But the question we have to ask ourselves is whether it means having a free office at County. I must admit that I was very surprised when I discovered it. I was not familiar with the fact that these four organizations have 61 office spaces free of charge at the County. The feedback we've received from the statesmen, and I'm aware that it's been over time, is that the statesmen perceived this as unexplained. The people are responsible for the supervision of voluntary organisations, and then it is not neat that they have office space in the same building in the same office community. The cooperation between the organisations and the statesmen can well be continued without being in the same offices. What about the Scout, what about the Youth League, and what about all the other organizations that do an important job - they don't have a free office?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e162	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e165	I also think that I have to ask the Minister for Municipal Affairs, because I know that the Minister for Local Affairs has actually worked a little bit with children's and youth organisations in his youth. He was also in the LNU system when there was a difficult report that went through the various organizations, which received support from very many different departments and very many different grades. Many municipalities give free office space without it being seen as very skeptical that you do it, some organisations get support from the Ministry of Health because they work with drugs. But here you decide systematically to go on those you don't like. I think all the politicians in this room want society to get better -- we just have a little different ways to go there. But when you make such decisions, I think that I would like to have been around the table and heard the answer to the following question: What is better in Norway if non-governmental organisations working with children and young people get worse?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e172	We shall jointly ensure that voluntary organisations are better equipped. The bourgeois parties agree on this. We are also doing so in this budget, for example. by significantly improving the quality of sport, which is a major and important work for the wide range of children and young people, through the proposal we have put forward. But I have to be allowed to distance myself from Trine Skei Grande's characteristics when it comes to doing this to organizations you don't like. I like 4H, I know they're doing a huge job. I know that the horticultural company, the forestry company and the agricultural company do a very important job. But the question we have to ask ourselves – and I am a little surprised that the Left does not ask that question – is whether it is right that four organisations should have free offices at the County Council. Does it mean that it guarantees independence? You think it's neat? I don't think so. I also believe that the Youth Team, the Scout and all the other organisations do a very important job, but they do not have a free office at the County Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e179	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e182	There's a pattern in this. I think that anyone who now receives the insurance from the government that they should be better secured must be careful, because when you talk about it, the savings knife is behind their backs. We have seen that in terms of volunteering, the poorest, the newspapers, food production, legal aid, the unemployed, etc. Everyone has received a good word from the government, and it's cut to the chase. Then there's a reason to ask, how is it possible to give someone better condition when you kiss? Because that's what the government's reality is doing. When the Minister now says that there are some who have had advantages over others, it is possible to think the opposite of what the government is doing, namely ensuring all equally good opportunities — or removing one scheme, compensating it with another, which means that you get out financially just as well. But the government doesn't. Then I am interested to hear if the Minister for Agriculture agrees with the Minister for Agriculture that cutting support for the volunteers is strengthening them.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e189	The description provided by the representative is incorrect. The government strengthens the conditions for volunteering, including, inter alia: a major boost to sport and the important work they do for children and young people. The question the representative has to ask is whether it is right that four hand-picked organisations should have free offices. Is this a clean arrangement? I don't think so. That's why we're going to wind up that system, but we're going to give the organizations one year and nine months of transition. Then it is clear that in a year's time it may be a discussion of the framework conditions for organisations. However, with regard to the question of the free office, I am a little surprised that SV does not ask questions as to whether this is correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e198	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e202	We just got the state budget, and that's always exciting reading. One of the things I always look forward to with great tension is the social profile of the budget. One of the most meaningful things as politicians, at least in a country as great as Norway, is to see what more we can do to help the most vulnerable in society. I have to say, I don't think it's completely unreasonable that the characteristic «a reverse Robin Hood» has been used about the budget. There are some measures that are good for the poorest. For example, income-adjusted rates — which means that the poorest pay a little less — are good in kindergarten. But taking the children's supplement from the disabled, cutting the transitional benefit for lone dependants, or for example. Double what you have to earn before you are entitled to sickness or parental leave is not good. I look forward to tough negotiations with the Minister of Labour, but since he is not here today, I want to ask questions to the Minister of State. He is responsible for another scheme, namely housing support. Housing support is an income-based scheme. After the new pre-reform, gross income will increase, but payments will be the same. You are taxing as an employee instead of as a pensioner. I have a good acquaintance at home. He's young. He's got Down's syndrome. He labors and is in a permanent work and has just been bought an apartment. He's probably one of those people who'll be struggling with this budget. But what you are also concerned about at home is housing support. What does this change in technology mean that you actually get a higher gross income, but you get the same thing paid out, do with the housing support? I see that the Minister of State has taken some action in the state budget to prevent – precisely because when you earn the same, you also need housing support. At the same time, I am a little unsure whether this is accurate enough. There are also major concerns out there. I would like to ask whether the Council of State can guarantee that people who are entitled to housing support after today's scheme will receive the same support when the new scheme comes into force.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e215	Let me first say that I look forward to good negotiations between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left in the Stortinget. We have put forward a budget that is good in relation to the cooperation agreement we have. We believe it is important to equip Norway for the future by investing in knowledge, infrastructure and growth in businesses. There is a good social profile in the budget, including: in my budget, where we ensure that the municipality is well placed next year, and where we do not least raise the areas of intoxication and mental health. These are important things that the bourgeois parties agree on. I am also very committed to the question raised by the representative Ropstad, namely housing support. Housing support is an important system that ensures that some of us who have problems in the housing market are helped to live. This is why the government has put forward a housing-social strategy which is the first strategy aimed at coordinating the measures, so that we can help more of the disadvantaged enter the housing market and get good arrangements. It is true, as was said, that in the state budget we are making some efforts to adapt housing support to the new disability. So the question is whether that's good enough. Yeah, we mean it is. But I can guarantee the representative Robstad that I'm going to follow closely, because I'm very concerned that having a place to live, not least for families with children who are struggling on the housing market, is the most important priority in the housing social area. I guarantee that this is what we're going to follow very closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e224	Thanks for the answer. I understand that a government council will not give a guarantee that if you have a right to the scheme today, you will also get the next year. But that also means that we have to follow the matter closely, and that it will be a matter for negotiation. When there's only a technical adjustment that makes it seem that the revenue is increasing, while the payment is the same, it's important for the Christian People's Party that one is not hit. The municipal minister is responsible for the municipalities and, as he says, he is concerned with good municipal economy. But one knows that for disabled people there are also some municipal schemes, for example. home help. It's often an income-rated scheme, which makes it possible for the gross income, as I said, to increase, that they will not be entitled to that scheme either. My question to the Council of State is: What does he do to ensure that the failure is not affected by the technical system, but that they are entitled to the benefits they had after today's model, also in the new disability scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e233	I believe that I have answered that question by making some adjustments through the budget, which means that we believe that the housing support will be good for this group. But because the representative Rupstad and also the government are so concerned that we're going to have a good housing support that helps those who have the right to that benefit, we're going to follow this very closely to see that we hit. This is just one of many measures within our housing social strategy. There are many departments that are now working together. I started to look at all the different support schemes that you have, and then I understand why many people have struggled to reach out in public. One of our most important tasks is to make things easier – easier for municipalities and easier for those who are struggling on the housing market. We're going to give them a hand and help them get into a home, so they get what they're entitled to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e240	It opens for follow-up questions – first Olaug V. Bollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e243	If we end up in a traffic accident and are so lucky that we are saved, it is often we have great help needs, not least in the municipality in which we live. This costs money for the municipalities. On Monday I met many rapporteurs in Rogaland. Rogaland is a blue state, so there were many Right-Rapporteurs and Vice-Presidents from the Progress Party who asked me to help them change the entry point for the services called resource-intensive services, because it would cost Municipality-Norway 220 million. kr, and everyone is struggling with their health and social budgets. Why do the Council of State and the Government not listen to their own rapporteurs, their own elected representatives, who experience this on the body? They want to provide those who need services, good services, but money doesn't go to – and the government is increasing the point of entry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e252	It is an important question that the representative raises. Those of us who have the most needs need the most help from the municipality – and they will also get it. That is also why we ensure the municipalities a good arrangement for the municipal economy for the next year. I hear that the central party rapporteurs are also satisfied with the municipal arrangement for the next year. I'll take that as a good sign. But then it's the resource-requiring service system. There has been a huge cost increase in recent years. From this year to next year, we're increasing the appropriations by almost 1 billion. kr to ensure that those of us who are most in need will receive help. We continue to cover the municipalities 80 pst. It was also an agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left for the current year's budget, so we maintain that, but then we increase the entry point by NOK 37 000. We believe that this can be defended, especially when you see that we're increasing the appropriations by almost 1 billion. kr to these services from this year to next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e259	Stine Renate Håheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e262	There is a long way between word and action in this government. We hear a lot about a good community economy and growth in municipal welfare, but this government has prioritised spending twice as much on tax cuts for those who have the most from before, over the free incomes of the municipalities, so I fear it will turn out unlucky. But let me follow up on the housing stock. It shall be converted and a number of changes shall be made to the budget. It's caused a lot of trouble out there. Among other things, the Secretary-General of the CP Association says that it seems like the grips that are being done are a redistribution between groups where those with the weakest economy will not be strengthened. We do not see any clear action in this budget to allow more people to find housing, and Norway's children's and youth organisations, LNU, have posted on their website that this is very unfortunate for children growing up in poor families, especially in an increasingly difficult housing market for those with low incomes. The question is, have these people misunderstood what these changes are about, or do they have reason to be concerned?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e271	They have reason to be calm, for this is an area where this government is very busy. That is why, in the revised national budget, we increased the appropriations for rental housing by 100 million. NOK, and that's why we're going to increase next year the appropriations for rental homes by $50 million. kr, so that several of those struggling on the housing market will have a place to live. That's why we have a housing social strategy that's going to make it easier for municipalities and for those who're struggling. That is also why I am very concerned that the housing support should help those who have the most important needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e276	Heidi Greni – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e280	Many municipalities in my area are now struggling with cut lists – where they are going to cut well-being to make their budgets go up. The so-called free resources in the municipal budget have been used many times: school health services, increased efforts in the field of drugs and psychiatry, growth grants, county roads, etc. must be taken within the framework. In addition, the government is now spending significantly more on the social budget, with the poorest becoming poorer. The removal of the child supplement in the disability allowance, the higher limit of sick pay, no tax relief for the poorest, etc. – all this will lead to a great deal of pressure on the social budget of the municipalities. The housing aid scheme has just been introduced here. Where does the Council of State think municipalities should cut off other welfare schemes to finance this – is it school, is it health, or is it going to go down?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e287	With all due respect – there must be limits to black paint. The reality is that the municipalities of the next year will grow in the free revenues around the same level as the red-green parties gave from 2008 until 2013. The reality is that the total income of municipalities increases by 1.2 billion. kr in addition to what we announced in May. The reality is that the room for action within the free revenues is larger than what we announced in May. That is also why the rapporteurs of the Centre Party, among others. The rapporteur in Frosta, says that there is a good increase and something that is good to have included in the work of the municipal budget for next year. It's one Central Party rapporteur. Another central party rapporteur's characteristic of the government's municipal structure is that it is «combatable». The municipal report says that it is alarming that a municipal minister is under-communicating the amount of money bags the municipalities get to next year. I also know that it is going to be demanding for many rapporteurs, but the reality is that the municipalities are growing at the level of what they have been given before, and there is more room for action than what we announced in May.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e292	Ketil Kjeseth - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e295	I am very pleased that the Council of State has chosen to be the Minister of Modernisation mainly and not the Minister of Efficiency alone. Dwellings are very important in the job with well-being. Too many live too badly in Norway today. Strengthening the rental housing sector by 50 million. kr is a sympathetic suggestion. For the left, we want more. We also know that the challenges around the country are very different. Some actually have high incomes, but unfortunately even higher living costs, and are struggling with them. In fact, there is a need for modernisation in housing policy. My question is: what will the Council of State do to modernise the House Bank, so that they can meet these challenges that are so sprawling around the country, with both high living costs and poor living capacity?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e304	I thank you for a very good question. Let me just start by saying that I like to receive input from the Left, but also from other parties in the Storting, about how we can get even better in this area. Because I understand that in terms of the housing social area, there is a cross-political desire to help those who have the biggest problems. In a country where many of us live as well as we do, it is particularly important that we lift those who labor in the housing market. Having a home to live in is the basic plan to move on in life, whether it's education, work or other things. I have a strong commitment to this, and I'm very happy that the Left also has it. As far as the House Bank is concerned, I believe that they have already done some important work, which has also been supported by the government, and that is among other things. that we also target the start-up loan scheme against those with the greatest challenges. Throughout the housing social strategy, it's about simplification, not about efficiency improvement, but we're going to help those who are struggling.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e313	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e316	I think you have to be a member of either the Right Party or the Advance Party in order to think that this budget has a good social profile, as the Council of State says, when the Council of State and I, and those who have a higher salary and wealth than us, get thousands of dollars in taxes, while families with chronically ill parents and small pensions get over 20,000 in cuts this year, and some of these families need housing support. The government has announced in the budget that they will look at what they call a transitional arrangement for this, and as stated in the budget, it shall only last one year. Now the Council of State says that he believes the scheme is good enough. Then I have to ask the minister: is it such that he believes that these chronically ill parents with children have recovered during the one year and then will not need either the child supplement or the housing support to give their children a good and safe home?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e325	Now it was in the premise for the question of many things that are below the budget of other government councils. I just want to say that the main point with the government's budget for next year is to equip Norway for the future, it's to make sure that we have good value creation, that values are created, that we get more to distribute, and that we can ensure good welfare for the future as well. As far as housing support is concerned, I have not said that it is good enough for the future. I have said that I believe that what we have now proposed is good enough and that it does. But I also added – and that is important – that we are going to follow this very closely. I am responsible for a housing social strategy, and it does not end in 2015, it is moving forward towards 2020, and I am concerned that we are constantly looking for the best measures to help those who have the biggest problems in the housing market.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e332	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e335	Early in the last century there were some forward-looking politicians in this room and made some very forward-looking decisions. One was concerned with ensuring scattered ownership, national ownership, concession laws with a relapse, but also a clear regulation of the ownership of the forest and agricultural properties. The consideration of future generations has been bearable. The interaction between soil law, concession law and otter law has ensured a diversity of agriculture in Norway. Property law is a prerequisite for a varied property structure and thus to ensure ownership as an opportunity for the many, not a right for the few. Property law has been significantly adapted over the years to new social conditions, which make it serve its purpose today. Now the government is proposing to repeal this concession law. Sweden and Denmark have tried this before, although Sweden does not go as far as Norway. Experience can be summed up in one word: capital crisis. In the spring session there were also several rounds in Stortinget about a proposal to cancel the price control. The matter has not yet been settled, but one might say that at best the Council of State had been strongly involved in trying to get it through, and it ended up with two rounds in the Committee of Control and Constitution. It is difficult to see the strategic assessments by making a proposal to repeal the law today, in addition to taking focus away from the large budget cuts in the Ministry of Agriculture. In such a situation, one chooses to repeal the entire concession law and to play the full set of rules that ensure the spread of local and national ownership. One might wonder why the Minister of Agriculture is more concerned with those who are going out of industry than with those who are going in. Does the Council have any professional evidence to claim that the abolition of the concession obligation will contribute to increased rural settlement, increased agricultural recruitment and increased Norwegian food production?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e348	The government does what it promised to do, namely to promote a case – which is to be heard first – to remove the concession law. We do that because we think it's a strong intervention in people's private property rights when the public can both interfere with who's going to buy a property and at what price, and can also oblige people to live somewhere against their will. We do not believe that botvang gives anything more homely. There are 30 000 empty farms around Norway today. We believe that the results given by the Housing and Concession Act are not in line with the desired result. With such a strong intervention in private ownership, results should be shown if the concession law is to be passed on in 2014, in the government’s opinion. There are several scientists who have looked at the concession law. It's not that you can put the concession law into a formula, and then you see exactly what's going to happen. But what we know is that there are many, for example. in the forestry industry, which is now sitting and waiting for something to happen with the concession law in order to increase the turnover of forests. There's reason to think that many people think that if you're going to spend your property for sale and the public can go in and influence the price, it won't be that interesting. We believe that this will lead to an increase in the turnover of agricultural properties. Few agricultural properties are traded today. There are many people who want to buy, and we want to get a normal market also within this industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e360	I thank you for your answer. It confirms that the Council of State has a slightly selective relationship with its facts. It will include, among others: not mention that the property law in Norway has contributed to the fact that Norway has a different property structure than many other countries. Nor is it in the consultation note that went out today, mentioned one word about what liberalisation has meant in Sweden and Denmark, and then I believe that one does not explain the matter thoroughly. A repeal of the concession laws will allow for many types of agricultural ownership – companies may own, REMA 1000 can buy farm use, and it opens up large-scale foreign ownership of Norwegian countries. My question to the Council of State is: why does the Council of State want to facilitate the sale of Norway to foreign participations?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e365	What we want is for most people to have the opportunity to buy a farm by increasing the turnover of agricultural property. When it comes to concession law and that kind of thing, we had it before, until the beginning of the 1980s. This led, for example, to: To some town halls here in the city stood and expired. After abrogated this regulation, it paid off for people to take care of their property in a completely different way, and one got to upgrade the property stock. There's reason to think it's also going to happen here, because it's clear that investing millions of dollars in a farm where one doesn't know if one gets the values back if one is going to sell, there's a lot of people who will refuse. This is about strengthening private ownership; it is about farmers not being required to subsidise others who want to enter the industry. There's no human right to own a farm, but it's an opportunity if you have the money to buy one.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e370	It opens for follow-up questions – first Liv Signe Navarsette.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e373	I have noticed that the Minister of Agriculture is busy translating agricultural properties. There's reason to believe that those who now want to sell a garden have got what's in the government's platform on taxes on profits at the hall of businesses in agriculture. That tax was, as most people think, strongly intensified during Per-Christian Foss' time as Minister of Finance. Of course, not all Right are equally busy giving riddles, you need to know! Now the government has promised on the platform that the tax rate should be reduced to ordinary capital taxation, and there is every reason to believe that such a change would have a far greater impact on the translation of agricultural property than on the repeal of the concession law. Does the Council of State believe that people with an economic sense will sell gardening today, when the government promises tax relief on the profits at the hall? And does the Council of State see that the government is putting a strong stop to the translation of agricultural property when they promise a tax haven, but the intention is to carry it out?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e382	As Navarsete's representative well knows, when you're going to make a government budget, you have to give priority to it, and the effort that Navarsete's representative here points to that on the platform, we're going to review again for next year's government budget, i.e. for 2016. So it is that both farmers' organizations were very pleased that the government reduced the wealth tax, because we know that many farmers have quite high wealth values and will serve to lower the wealth tax. So I'm very pleased with the support of both the Farmers and the Farmers' and Small Farmers' Team when it comes to lowering the property tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e389	Knut Storberget – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e392	There are unusually large values for Norway’s part — and not least, there is a question of what Norway will look like in the future — this is about, and there are significant changes that the Council of State has recently sent out at the hearing, in terms of both privatisation of State forests, the winding-up of concession laws and the liquidation of price regulation. I get a little feeling that it's like observing an elephant in a glass magazine -- you haven't asked for permission to be there, and you're at risk of a lot being crushed. And a lot of these are measures that I find hard to see having a majority in the Storting, based on what the other parties here have given to know. I feel that the Council of State is concerned that 30 000 farms in Norway are empty, and then it is proposed to lift the obligation to live. What makes it possible for more of these farms to be inhabited by lifting their housing obligations?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e397	I noticed that the representative Storberget referred to me as an elephant in a glass house, and asked if I was allowed to be there. After all, there are all the voters who voted in elections, and there is a cooperation agreement that lies at the bottom of this government's accession – it's cleaned up. For us, it is essential that we have a strong private property right. I know that it is not as important for the representative of Storberget and the Workers' Party, but for us it is essential. That is why we are committed to restoring ownership of Norwegian farmers and also ending the public enforcement of where they are going to live. And when one in 2014 sees the municipalities sending out door banks and inspectors to reveal whether people live in a place, it's so intriguing to me in private property and personal life that I think it's high time that we set the people free and let them live where they want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e404	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e407	I am very pleased that the Council of State, Listhaug, in today's Evening Post, is fulfilling the duty to operate – for that is what the Council of State is doing. It's very joyful. But as far as housing is concerned, we know that it has secured housing and agriculture throughout the country. After all, it is an overall goal for both the government and the Stortinget to increase food production. Now we hear that the Council of State is talking about her and the government wanting a normal market, you want most people to be able to buy a farm. But by removing the obligation to live, I would say -- if I'm going to be as pointed as the Council of State tends to be -- that the richest vacuum cleaners our country for beautiful properties. So it won't be possible for most people to buy a farm. But the prices are going to increase, as the Council of State said to the undersigned in a previous line change. How will this equip Norway for the future, which is the government's overall goal?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e416	I don't believe you can force people to farm. I believe that you have to facilitate those who want to farm. Today there are many people who would like to buy a farm, but who do not have the opportunity for several reasons. One is that there are few farms for sale. These include: because of the concession law, where one may have an impact on the price. Many will then think that it is not their job to subsidize those who are going into the industry – because, as I said, there is no human right to be a farmer. I agree with the representative, Mr Hemdal, that the obligation to operate is important. The fact that the earth is being held in claim is an important value that I also very much agree with is necessary. But the obligation to live seems to me to have played out its role. We now also see that there are several cities, including: down the south coast, which gives way to housing, simply because they don't see that it has any mishaps. When we then have 30,000 farms standing empty, it's basically a monument that this law doesn't work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e428	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e431	My question is to Mr Aspaker, Minister for Fisheries. The left has the ambition that Norway will be the world’s leading maritime nation. In order to achieve this, we need to ensure that fisheries, farming and the entire marine sector otherwise evolve within the framework of the environment. Wild fish and farmed fish must be managed in such a way that they are renewable resources from an eternity perspective and that resources provide value creation and ensure our well-being in the future. Norwegian farming is a particularly important industry for Norway and has a high growth potential, but it is essential that further growth takes place with the environment and is sustainable. Breeding has a major unsolved problem with escape and salmontus, and we know there is a conflict between wild fish farmers and fish farmers about salmon. But we also see challenges with other fish species. Researchers fear, among other things: that the trout in the outer parts of the Namsenfjord is going to be wiped out due to salmoncus, and last Friday we could read in the Fishery Leaf Fish that the eel soil is almost empty of shellfish. It is claimed that this is due to depurating agents from the farming industry. This shows how complex and difficult the situation is. I know that both the Minister of Fisheries and the farming industry are committed to finding solutions to the salmon problem. The government announced in the summer that they wanted to open for 5 pst. growth in the farming industry, while making strict, strict lice requirements. It is both affordable and necessary for the Minister of Fisheries to put in place individual measures that can – I say – work. But is that enough? I miss a heavier approach to the problem, where our competence environment is mobilized to think new, think alternatively, think whole in relation to the environment and the farming industry, and in relation to other living resources in the sea and the fjords. My question is: will the Minister for Fisheries take action beyond what is being done today to solve the salmon industry challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e444	It is a very important question that the representative of Farstad is now raising. It is a fundamental prerequisite that further growth in Norwegian aquaculture can only happen if we control the environmental challenges that lusa represents, which escape represents, and we also have other challenges that it is important to address. The next year’s government budget is investing even more in research and development that is important in finding new ways to crack the loop. We want to use smaller medicines. We see that it can also have a clear negative impact on the environment around it, and we have a very good dialogue with the industry. But I'm impatient, and I'm constantly challenging away the industry. Yes, public spending on R & D, but it also has to be done by the industry, the industry has to take greater responsibility. Now, fortunately, we see that there will be some new solutions that we can apply, whether there are new types of mercenaries, more systematic use of clean fish and others. We're reading today about this lucelaser that is now being tested on a larger scale, and it might look like there might be another tool in the toolbox. We can't give in to it, we have to keep working to find more and even better methods that can help bring down the lice. As far as escape is concerned, we now have consultations, and we are getting in place from the New Year, an obliging agreement between the industry and the authorities to ensure that, when needed, the large number of rivers now being monitored and the limit values for the quantities of farmed fish that have escaped farmed fish in the rivers are exceeded, eradication measures are taken. I believe therefore that we have come a long way. But I want to say that the big message we're working on, which is to be delivered to the Stortinget for Easter, in full monn and in full width, is also going to go into these things.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e453	I thank you for the answer and thank you for the assurance that it will be worked here in close cooperation with the farming industry, and I think that is important. But I still miss a slightly more offensive attitude to looking at new ways of doing this and using all the research environments and all the environments of competence that we have in Norway. The marine research institute and some others are obvious, but then we have some aquaculture stations – Helgeland Maritime Station is doing something interesting now and more. I hope the Minister for Fisheries can assure you that now all rocks will be turned around to find a solution to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e460	Just to underline the seriousness of this: I have introduced quarterly meetings with the Food Authority and the Marine Research Institute. I have now also called the industry to a meeting in the Ministry on 3 November to review what is status, and to look at what more can be done in the short term. I fully agree with Mr Farstad that we need to look at whether the environments that are now working on new innovative solutions, whether near the coast or further off the coast, can also help to solve some of these environmental problems, which are major for industry today. Then we have to look at whether the R & D instruments we have in the department today are adapted to the new solutions that some of these environments work with. The answer to that is probably no, and then it's my intention that we also do something about it. Then, just to underline further that I am on the ball, I have asked the Food Safety Authority now to step up the practice of today's legislation. I have also asked the Food Safety Authority now to come to me with proposals for new measures to keep the situation better under control in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e469	There will be follow-up questions – first Ola Elvesuen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e472	It's a serious situation, especially for wild salmon and sea trout, but also for the seafood industry, because it's escape and the lice problem that prevents the growth of the seafood industry and the growth of the biomass that we all really want. It is good that new measures are launched, but what is important is that the new measures are proportionate to the task we are facing, and that we are not just driving and making new decisions and processes. We have to take an overall and large hold so that we get out of a situation that the country and the farming industry have been for too long. Then my question becomes, towards the big message and what comes: Do we now want to see so powerful goals that we ensure that we actually get an end to the problem we have, and that escape and lice problems can come under control and we can get a growth in the farming industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e477	As the representative of Elvesuen says, it is absolutely crucial for the industry's further growth potential that we solve these problems. It is also crucial, in my opinion, for the reputation of the industry, that you manage to solve the problems. In the big news we are now working on, we are going to use environmental parameters in Norway for the first time to help and decide whether it will be possible to continue to grow. Then we have to work parallel to getting a larger toolbox. For example, the government is filling up. in the next year’s budget well on the eco-innovation scheme in Innovation Norway, and there is a system that has been particularly good for the aquaculture industry to take advantage of. We're now looking and seeing where it is that we can help stimulate the industry to do more in a way. The tax FUNN scheme is also a system that has been widely used by the aquaculture industry and which is an important tool for increasing their efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e484	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e487	It is absolutely right that we have a great potential for farming, but it has to be environmental. Special inspector of the Food Safety Authority says we have a major resistance problem in the South and North Trondelag. She goes on to say that we have the same tool in Toolbox this year as last year, but it's a difference, and that's that we have more fish. I am pleased that the Council of State is taking this issue seriously, and that we are going to use new technologies to reduce drug use. Then we know that the Innovation Norway Environmental Technology Scheme and the Fisheries Directorate's R & D actions have supported closed sea installations. There may be one measure that should be applied in view of the lice problem. How do the councils view more bets on closed sea marshes?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e494	I appreciate getting that question. In the context of the new Single European Act, we have now set up a separate group of experts to look at how we can contribute to stimulating closed markets and, if necessary, how we are to establish a regulatory framework around them. It is not necessarily logical to have the same legislation for land-based closed installations as for closed installations located in the sea. Then the representative is absolutely right that the resistance challenge is serious in the sense that it is then all the more important that we have several alternative methods to play on. I can show that in the proposal on 5 pst. growth that is out of consultation, we've tightened up. Not only is the stricter lice requirement, but we have also said a maximum of two medical treatments per generation of fish. So we see this challenge, and we also have to see if we have to become even tougher about the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e502	Odd Omland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e505	The government has added up to a growth in the aquaculture industry of 5 pst. through new concessions, requiring a maximum of 0,1 lice per fish on average. In the budget we are now discussing, you suggest that the municipalities be allowed to keep 50 pst. of the consideration in respect of those concessions. I have noticed that in hearings that have been held, the industry is negative to this proposal, as they believe that the lice requirements proposed are unrealistic. Instead, the working party proposed a testing scheme with a rolling MTB and an area charge was paid to the municipalities, as proposed by the Fjord and Coastal Municipalitys Network. A majority consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left had a note in their last year's budgetary position that a selection of stakeholders was to be set up to collect land charges. The government wants to act as a force for action. The question is then: what has the Council of State done to follow up this remark from the majority of the population?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e510	The answer is that an analysis is now being carried out on this with land tax or not, or alternative ways of ensuring that municipalities are able to receive compensation for being good host municipalities for the industry. They need that. If it is to grow further, access to the land is an important prerequisite. We suggest that in the big message to be presented to spring, we also have the area as an important theme, and then it's also natural to acknowledge the call that comes from Stortinget, where we decide whether or not we want to introduce the land tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e515	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e518	Fisheries and aquaculture policy is about balancing cross-cutting considerations. This also applies to the issue of salmontus and rearing. It is then important that the Council of State has a good capacity for dialogue with different interests. The Minister for Fisheries, through his proposal for increased ceilings of production for farming and related environmental requirements, has done the trick of provoking both the farming industry, environmental organisations, marine scientists and the Food Authority. The Minister of Fisheries came up with solutions no one would want. In the past, the Minister for Fisheries has sent out a proposal for the structuring of the coastal fleet below 11 metres at the hearing and after massive resistance. The Minister for Fisheries has also sent amendments to the quota ceiling for cod trawls and purse seine at the request of the main fishing vessels. This proposal, too, has a very hard say in the hearing. Finally, one read in the VG that a dialogue meeting on salmonmus with five sensible district rapporteurs ended up in dispute. My question is: does the Council of State consider that she has the good dialogue with different interests necessary to find the good solutions to ensure sustainable growth in the aquaculture industry, including solving the salmon industry challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e529	I'm a lot on the move and have good dialogue with all parts of the industry. I don't know if it's special for the fishing industry, but the fact is that here there are many opinions represented at any time, and that's a bit of the challenge. In order to use the structuring of the coastal fleet below 11 meters as an example, it is clear that one year, when the Fiskarlag makes a national meeting decision on this, and then in the hearing ask for more time, I choose to give them more time. I'm concerned that we're going to find good solutions that will make the industry too comfortable with what we come up with. When it comes to the hearing on this 5%, I think we need to agree that we have some environmental challenges in the industry that are not to be overlooked. We have to take them seriously. I hear the industry says these criteria are too strict. I have said very clearly to the industry that they have to prepare for the big message that is coming, to put themselves on about the same strict assumptions. That is absolutely necessary if we are also to take account of the wild game and sea trout.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e538	Kirsti Bergstø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e541	We have experienced several cases of serious escapes from farming facilities in West Finland. It also appears that the lice problem is as high in the north as elsewhere in the country when volume increases. We see good reason to tighten up the drudgery in the farming industry. Therefore, my question to the Minister today is: What concrete demands does the Minister want to make to the industry in order to get rid of escape and lice, when we see it repeated year after year? I would also like to ask whether some sort of penalty is being considered where we see that the company responsible for evacuation may have failed in its procedures and internal control, in order to prevent this being repeated over and over again – when we see that there have been serious evacuations, among other things. in Alta, two years in a row.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e550	I think it's very important for the industry itself and for the industry's reputation that you take seriously your accidents. No one will allow salmon to escape on purpose, but it is therefore illegal not to report. The notification is about the possibility of introducing remedial measures at the time of evacuation. I think what we've seen in Alta, where Grieg Seafood after a lot about and but, I would say, has recognized that it's those who are responsible for these escapes, is not the situation that should be. I'm very clear on that. It is also important that the Directorate of Fisheries follow-up, and that the police are able to follow-up when there are reports of such cases. So, at my discretion, there is a clear assumption that evacuation must also be taken seriously. The new agreement now in place, with this fund to ensure that we have the means to manage fishing and clean up when there is too much escaped farmed salmon in rivers, is also an important measure in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e561	Rasmus Hansson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e564	When the Norwegian industry was cleansed in the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s, it was through a cash pollution law and effective enforcement with clear and harsh sanctions. It worked perfectly well to everyone's satisfaction. The situation in the farming industry is, as we know, that the government has been sitting and hearing the industry say: wait until tomorrow, and we'll fix the lice problem, and then we'll fix the escape problem. So the industry says one more thing, that what you want is to grow. Is the Council of State now prepared to use the fully obvious instrument that will work and which the industry will understand, namely, to put a full stop to all growth until the lice problems and escape problems are solved?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e572	We want this to be an industry that will be allowed to develop further, but it is a very clear prerequisite for that, that it must be environmentally sound. That means that we're taking into account wild breeds and sea trout, and we also have other considerations to take into account. Therefore, there are today many requirements for the aquaculture industry as to what kind of emissions it can be on the site or how to deal with the lice situation, etc. What kind of demands we're going to make on the industry in the future will be a very central theme of the big news that is now at work. There we are now inviting a broad dialogue with business operators and others who are interested in contributing to that work. I hope for a lot of good input, but that's not how this industry gets a right to run in front of the environment, etc. in the future. I don't think that's a good idea. We have no reason to think that we can get lost in this area. To this the industry is too important today, and it will also have a great potential in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e577	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e580	My question goes to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, Sanner. Those who have received the biggest cuts in this year’s budget are families where the caregiver is unemployed, unemployed, and those who have children. They've had a big cut in their family economy because you're removing the baby supplement for them with the least social security. That's up to $28,000 a year. In addition, the income of single-parents in education is cut. There's a lot of other cuts too, there's a pattern in this. But in common with all these families who have kids, they must have a place to live, and the municipal minister said in spring when he gave a speech to the House Bank, that the government should ensure safe homes for everyone. The minister also knows, as he said then, that there are very many of the families who are struggling with a place to live, that have kids. When children do not live well, the alarm bells should ring, said the State Council in that post. And then he said that there is a need to step up efforts towards families with children and young people who do not live well. In previous rounds today he has referred to housing support and to what municipalities should do. I've been looking in the budget there, too. So there's a $190 million cut. kr on housing aid, and there is a halving of the contribution of competence that municipalities are to carry out the social work of housing, with which the government is also now saying to be strengthened. I want to ask the Council of State, when he now makes many families poor and insecure: how did he say in ours that everyone should have a safe home, along with the big cutties just for families with children, who have the least income?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e589	Let me first say that it is wrong what the representative says, namely that you cut for poor and families with children. We have a policy where we facilitate work, where the work line is strong – work is the best way out of poverty. And then, of course, we're going to make sure that those who need the help of society have good arrangements. There are also many proposals in the budget that are targeted at those who are struggling the most. Among other things, on my budget, we are raising funds for drug treatment and mental health. It is a good community structure that allows municipalities to continue to work on closing gaps in the social security network. Then I absolutely agree with all the words in the speech I gave when we presented the housing social strategy. I am very engaged and concerned that people who struggle to get into the housing market, and especially those who have the biggest problems among us, will get better help. That is why we have put forward a housing social strategy, where we are now coordinating efforts towards municipalities, and municipalities are getting better tools to help those who are struggling. That's why we in our increased appropriations for rental homes. That's why we're increasing the budget for rental homes by 50 million. kr next year. I also believe that the housing support system, as we have proposed it, will help those who are struggling the most. But as I've said in several articles earlier today, we're going to follow it closely to see that the housing support hits the groups that it's supposed to hit.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e594	There is nothing in the State Council that has put forward in the Housing Budget that can ensure, for example, that: Camilla Stensletten, who wrote letters to the Prime Minister and asked: «Do you think I should move out in a wheelchair with my two-year-old son? Because that's almost what I'm going to have to do if you're going to cut several thousand in the children's supplement of the month?" She also writes: «Or I have understood that you mean I'm just going out to get a job to cover this loss.» A lot of people hit by these cuts can't work. It seems that the government doesn't care about this at all. Then they propose a transitional arrangement that will last one year for these families. To stay is something we do all the time. Being idle, e.g. having an congenital disease or some other disability that makes you unable to work does not pass into a year. Does the Council of State really mean that you no longer need housing?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e609	I have responded to this about the housing support. We have the same commitment to housing social measures. We obviously disagree with the actual working line. It is not new that SV and the civil parties disagree on this point. We believe that helping people back to work is the best way to lift people out of a difficult situation. Some people will need special schemes. That is why our government – it was unable to get to SV – now has a personal user-controlled assistant in place. This is an important measure for many people who are struggling to live a better everyday life, whether you are at work or not at work. We make sure that the nursery rate is lowered for those who have the worst advice. We also aim to target the grant scheme in higher education to help those most in need of social assistance and support.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e614	Follow-up questions will be raised – first Kirsti Bergstø.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e617	Many who find it difficult to do so already can go into worse time with the proposal for a budget cut that has been put forward. We know that there are cuts in sick pay, parental leave and child allowances. When it's millions to save on poor, it's also millions to lose on poor. There is reason to believe that more people will need assistance from municipalities and economic social assistance for living in the future. I wonder if the council knows how many people this applies. Is it that we know the overall picture, all the consequences, that many people not only get reduced their incomes, but that some will actually lose them?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e624	The representative now asks questions relating to the budgets of other departments. It is common practice to ask questions relating to the subject area of the Council of State. In the case of housing support — or housing social — we know that there are about 135,000 people struggling on the housing market. That's why we've reinforced the housing social measures, that's why we've put forward a housing social strategy, and that's why we're increasing the funding so that municipalities can facilitate more rental homes. I think there are important measures to help people who are struggling the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e631	Lise Christoffersen – to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e634	Work is the best way out – yes. That's where we agree. But that way is closed to a lot of people, and in some kind of misunderstood workline, the government is now swinging the whip over those who have the least. Children's supplements have been a theme here, as has the driver's system for disabled persons, which shall be reserved below for those in work or training. I'm going to save the question 'What about those who can't work?' to the Social Minister is here. Now I would like to take the opportunity to ask the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation: does the government now have an expected figure for how many disabled people will feel the whip on the body and report to Nav, and does the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation have a plan for how he will ensure that the state and municipality as employers are actually going to put jobs at the disposal of these people and employ their fair share of them?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e642	This is also a question on the table of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. But we're dedicated to strengthening the line of work. We believe that the most important measure to increase the individual’s ability to finance everyday life is to have a job to do. That's why we also have a strategy to achieve that. I agree with the last approach, namely that the state and the municipality must also be more good at employing people who have some major challenges. We know that many people do that, among other things. in the case of people with mental health challenges. There, the Fontenehuset is doing an amazingly important job, through a collaboration with the Stortinget and private companies, to get more employees. I also believe that the state and the municipality can be better off helping people who are struggling on the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e649	Sveinung Rotevatern – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e652	There is no doubt that the taskbar is important. But there is no doubt that what is now being done in the state budget is cut into some state social security schemes that will go particularly hard on, among other things. All-rounders. But it's not at the Sanner State Council's table. What I'm asking is whether he's not worried that what the government budget is doing can lead to an increase in pressure on some of the municipal systems we have, not least social assistance, where we already know today that the guiding state norms are actually being used as max norms, and where there are huge differences between municipalities. One of the reasons many of us thought it was important to change government was that there were – and are – 78 000 poor children in Norway, and that there were several of them under the red-green government. I want to ask the Council of State if there's any reason to believe that there will be fewer poor children in Norway when we stand here next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e661	The President will stress that it is important to stick to the main issue and to the constitutional responsibility of the Council of State. Now there have been several questions where this has been stretched quite far. I leave to Sanner whether he will respond or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e664	I agree with what the President says. At the same time, it's a very good question, and it's a common ambition for the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left to fight child poverty. That is why, in our cooperation agreement, we also have concrete measures to help reduce child poverty. In this budget, we reinforce urban-related arrangements for leisure activities. We reinforce actions related to free core time in kindergartens. We reduce the nursery price for those who have the lowest income, in line with the consensus we have had with the Christian People's Party and the Left. We want to continue a dialogue with the Christian People's Party and the Left and also other parties on measures that can help reduce child poverty. But at the bottom to lift people out of poverty, the workline must lie, and there I am sure that the Left and Government parties are far on the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e669	We go to the next main question – from Helga Pedersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e672	Then I choose to stand still, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e677	President, the Council of State can do that. A discussion like Jan Tore Sanner and I have had many times before in this room is about the mantra from the right that has been about not having to choose between tax cuts and welfare. The right has claimed that tax cuts would bring more revenue to the community in a magical way. But what we see now is that when the government has just cut taxes as its most important priority in the government budget for next year, it has consequences, not least in school and welfare. And now it's not the members of the government, but the local politicians around the country who have to do the painful priorities in the real world. In the municipal scheme for the government next year, there is no correlation between the ambitions you say you have at school and care for the elderly, and the money you actually give. Nor has it been taken into account that the tax revenue for municipalities in this year fails at over 2 billion. kr. So the municipalities start off with a big minus before they can start making the budgets for the next year. In Bergen, the Right Party Municipal Council proposes to reintroduce property taxes as well as cuts in the offer of developmentally handicapped people, cuts in subsidies to private kindergartens and increases SFO prices. Gjøvik seems to have a tax loss of 21 million. kr. They will have to cut sharply next year, and the rapporteur says that ‘whatever form it takes, it will affect the provision of services’. And on the other hand, ‘Cuts will affect important areas of service such as school and health that account for two-thirds of the budget, even if we will try to protect them as much as possible.’ The Councillor in Bodø points to his Presidency as follows: ‘It is particularly worrying that tax and framework subsidies fail so much. If this persists, it will be necessary to further reduce the cost side.» When one sees in the municipality what kind of consequences it has of prioritising tax cuts to the country's richest rather than school, health and elderly care, why does the municipal minister choose tax cuts?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e698	The municipal minister chooses welfare growth, and the municipal minister chooses to equip Norway for the future by investing more in infrastructure, knowledge, research and growth-promoting tax incentives. There is a disagreement between the Labour Party and the bourgeois government. We believe it is important to equip Norway for the future by investing in infrastructure, knowledge and innovation – we believe it is absolutely crucial. At the same time, I must be allowed to say that I am very surprised at the description of the municipal structure from the Labour Party, because the reality is that the arrangement we have put forward for next year is at the same level as the Workers' Party promoted from 2008 until they lost the government power in 2013. The total income of municipalities is 1.2 billion. kr more than what we announced in May. The action space for municipalities is larger, and therefore I have also registered that both the KS and many rapporteurs – including from the Workers' Party – are reasonably satisfied with the arrangement for next year. I also know so much about the municipal economy and the municipal everyday life that I know that the municipalities still have to give priority to getting to the most important thing. Then to the tax failure in 2014. There's a reality that the tax failure was $1.2 billion. until May 2014. However, on the other side of the scale was lower demographic costs and a more moderate salary settlement, so that the municipal action room in 2014 was about the same when we arrived in May. After that, there has been a tax failure of 900 million. kr, and the cost of the loss, must be borne by the municipalities. This is because municipalities get to keep the money when tax revenue increases, and then it's not unreasonable that one of the ten years of tax failure, you have to finance it yourself. It is without prejudice to the 2015 layout – the 2015 layout generates good growth for the income of municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e705	It affects the municipalities, because these are money that municipalities have to cut before they start creating next year's budget. What is alarming is that the government, with the record-breaking use of oil money it adds, is still able to deliver such a poor arrangement to the municipalities. It's a description of reality that many of the party traps of the Right and Advance Party around the country share. The financial bureau in Bergen shall reintroduce property taxes. I don't think it's going to happen, but because you see you have to do it. Beate Bø Nilsen, Right-wing Lady and Board of Governors of Plan and Economy in Northern Ireland, says: "I feel that we, as a long-range coastal group, have been poorly heard in the government's calculation of our income." In Elverum, the Right-wing rapporteur must cut 50 years' work, many in school, health and well-being. I record that Sanner is still talking about growth-promoting tax cuts. They obviously don't take place in Bergen, in Elverum or in Northern Ireland. Can the Minister of State tell me in which municipalities we want to see the dynamic tax effects?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e714	By now having the greatest promise of travel in very many years, by focusing more on knowledge and research, and by promoting growth, we are facilitating jobs, for growth, development and well-being in Norway. This is one of the most important things that governments can do: to equip Norway for the future. I notice otherwise that the representative Helga Pedersen says that it is a ‘bad arrangement for the municipalities’. It is a rather deadly characteristic of the Workers' Party's own municipal structure over six to seven years. The reality is that our arrangement for next year is at the same level as what the red-greens provided from 2008 and until they lost the government power in 2013. So if the representative thinks it's a bad setup, it must have been even worse in some of the red-green years. In fact, Sigbjørn Johnsen presented in 2012 a scheme that had lower growth than what I have put forward, and Sigbjørn Johnsen then thought it was a good setup. I also note that the rapporteur of the Labour Party in Fauske says that this is a good thing with regard to the local economy. So that's what a workers' party rapporteur says.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e722	It opens for one follow-up question – from Stein Erik Lauvås.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e725	At least the red-green government didn't run from the unpaid bills, as we see that this government does. We now see and read that a number of municipalities are preparing to cut off their services for 2015. One has not been able to avoid reading and seeing it. We see very little to those who say that they will strengthen and expand. Among other things, Tage Pettersen, Right-wing rapporteur in Moss and – still, I think – central government member in the Right-wing, in the election campaign before the election, said that no municipalities would have less advice with the Right-wing government. But now it is announced in the municipalities from north to south of the country. These cuts are going to go beyond the provision of care and school. Does the Minister of State mean, for example: Moss municipality, which now has to cut its expenses and services, does it because they have improved their financial assumptions with the Right and Advance Party in government, or is it the opposite?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e734	I wonder where the representative Lauvås has been for the last eight years. I have read localists from north to south, from east to west, about workers' party rapporteurs, SV rapporteurs and centre party rapporteurs who have had to give priority and who have had to cut their budgets. It is not new that local politicians, too, need to prioritise and put something else ahead of them. But the reality is that our municipal structure for next year is at the same level as it was under the red-greens from 2008 until the red-greens lost power in 2013. The reality is that the total income of municipalities is 1.2 billion. kr higher than what I announced in May. The reality is that the municipalities have a larger room for action in 2015 than what we announced in the municipal bill. Therefore, Municipal Report also writes: ‘It is rare for politicians to sub-communicate the amount of money sacks distributed, but it actually does Jan Tore Sanner.’ It is a good community arrangement for the next year that enables municipalities to create better school and better well-being in the coming year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e748	We're done with the oral question procedure, and we're moving on to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e760	There will be some changes to the configured question list. In this context, the President refers to the electronic questionnaire made available to the representatives. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative Marit Nybakk to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, must be postponed until the next Question Time, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has left. Question 6, from the representative of Kjersti Toppe to the Minister for Health and Welfare, is answered by the Minister for Justice and Security on behalf of the Minister for Health and Care, who has been away. Question 8, from the representative of Kirsti Bergstø to the Minister for Defence, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e777	‘In a letter dated 19 September from the Ministry of Transport to the organisers of a conference on the construction of the Aarhus Railway, it is announced that it will not be relevant to provide any funding of the track by the government until after 2023. In the revised agreement on Oslopackakt 3, negotiated between Oslo and Akershus and the State, it is stated that the funding of the Aarhus Railway will start in the period from 2018 and that the entire project is based on it. Does the ministry's letter mean that the government will postpone the construction of the Ahus Railway?»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e784	No, the government doesn't do anything that will delay the Ahus Railway. On the contrary, we believe that there is an important track that we hope to get into Oslopackak 3 at a good stage. Now it's in 2022, but it's important that this comes in when we're negotiating urban environmental agreements. What we've been aiming for, which we admit was not sufficiently formulated, is that in the national transport plan, as the Stortinget decided, the Ahus Railway was barely mentioned. There is no money inside, nor is there any obligation from the previous government to participate and contribute. It is best that the state can contribute to large investment promises, without specified. This government, and the Christian People's Party and the Left, opted for the state to contribute – not only can, but must – by 50 pst. on the major collective infrastructure promises in the four largest cities. We have specifically mentioned the Fornebubanen, because it has been the most advanced in planning and has been a priority from Oslo and Akershus, but it is quite natural that the Ahusban is also a type of route that has the same character and that should be included. This is natural for one to discuss when a distributor of urban environmental agreements to make sure that Oslo and Akershus are also involved in planning it, so that a person gets a finished project. Now there's a so-called concept selection investigation that, among other things, Routes are included, doing part of the basic work here. I think that's good. I am also pleased that the representative Jan Bøhler is involved in this. We have many requests from local Right-People, Advance Party people, Christian People's Party people and Left-People about this particular section of the track, because they are frustrated that the track was no longer mentioned in the National Transport Plan, and they are frustrated that the previous government would not commit itself more clearly to financing it. That commitment has now been given with the current government. Then one, like Bohemia, sees an opportunity to lift the path more offensively in order to realize it faster. When we look around in the Oslo region or in the Central East, there is no doubt that there is a need for major infrastructure uplifts, not just at Fornebu, which we have discussed, but also around the other regions. That's why we've said that the Ringerix Railway is part of the intercity bet, and that's why we say that the Aarhus Railway is natural to consider when discussing the urban environment agreement with Oslo. That's why we've said we should have optimal progress on the other intercity sections, so that we can provide a good collective offer for people who want to live outside Oslo, but who work in Oslo. We're going to facilitate better access parking, we're going to make it possible, together with Router and others, to coordinate a better bus offer from the counties, along with the rail offer you're offering from the state. We have also said in the budget that is now under discussion in Stortinget that the NSB should not only be able to buy 14 new train sets a year that will come, but they will be able to buy 29. All of this is linked to a significant increase in offensive efforts on public transport in the eastern region.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e804	I would like to thank you for your answer. After all, it is a clearer commitment when the Council of State says it is quite natural that the Ahusban should be included in a 50-pst funding and that the Ahusban should be included in the plans for such a financing solution. Both the letter I mentioned in the question and the Government's action plan on public transport until 2023 only states: ‘Current project for the assessment of state grants in the period 2014-2023 is Fornebubanen in Oslo and Akershus, Citybanen to Åsane [[...]] Ahusban is not mentioned. It was uplifting to get an answer that takes a step further in order to commit that the Ahusban will also receive such direct funding. The Council of State may say a little more about when it comes to clarifying this, so that renegotiations of Oslopackak 3 can also be started, etc. on the basis of these 50 psts. gives? This will offer a completely different funding solution than what you have now had when negotiating Oslopackak 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e816	Let me just stress that in the written letter that was sent, the wording was obviously unfortunate. But my State Secretary, who signed this letter, also sent an e-mail to the same people, and there was the wording more precise. It says that it is through the negotiations on the urban environment agreements between Oslo and Akershus and the state that it will be relevant to discuss the prioritisation and progress of the Aarhus Railway. There we are clear – as we should also be in the letter. We're already working on the process of negotiating urban environmental agreements. During 2015, this Agreement should be signed. That is at least our desire in terms of progress. I think both Oslo and Akershus want the same thing. It's at least very positive signals we get from governing politicians in the two states. I also see that a local look with new interest at just these arrangements. In the previous NTP, as the red-green submitted, the Fornebubanen was referred to as a possible project. With us, it's a guaranteed project. The state must contribute. I'm glad that Bøhler understands new optimism with new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e825	With regard to the progress described by the Council of State, it is important to bear in mind that the Oslopack 3, which was renegotiated in 2012, states: ‘The following new projects start from 2018 to 23: Fornebubanen, A-Husbanen and E6 Manglerudtunnel.’ In the project plan that was also outlined at the conference I mentioned in the question, Akershus County Council describes it in such a way that from 2018 there will be groundwork, that there will be considerable costs in terms of design, planning processes, that there will be agreements with contractors, etc. on construction. There will be increasing expenditure during this period, so it is important that the State enters into an agreement of 50 pst. funding — if it is provided by the government — as early as possible. This could ensure that – both for all those who are building dwellings in these areas and for those who are going to carry out the project – this will happen. And it should be delayed rather than delayed, as I see it, because here's a huge opportunity to develop an area that we really need -- based on the lack of housing we have in the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e835	Here, too, I welcome the representative, Mr Bøhler, the fact that a new government and a new majority have increased the possibilities for that to happen. Where the previous government said that in the city pot contained in the national transport plan, some of the funds could be used for investment aid, the current government says that the funds should be used, that one should share 50–50 with the county council – much more offensive than the one that has been founded in the past. We also say that the pot has to be increased. It is interesting to note that the head of the Workers' Party said that it is within the existing pot that one should distribute the money to be able to invest. We say that the pot has to be increased, because the state has to take a larger share of the commitments here. Here all possibilities will be present. But again it demands that Oslo and Akershus will give priority to this, that this is not something we are discussing in Stortinget, without local anchoring. Therefore, the contractual discussions between Oslo and Akershus and the State will be very important, so that one in the Urban Environment Agreement carries out the necessary priorities. We have to be positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e853	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e860	«Language policy is an important part of cultural policy. The debate on a change in the organisation of language collections and the digital dictionary service at the University of Oslo has illustrated that coordination between different departments in language matters can be somewhat unclear. Regardless of the future organisation of the language collections and dictionary services, in what way will the State Council and its departments contribute to ensuring their national function?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e867	The Ministry of Culture has contributed in several ways to the best possible lighting of this complex. Among other things, we have obtained professional assessments from our own underlying body, the Language Council, and we have also addressed various questions with the University of Oslo. We have been committed to raising the language aspects of the matter, and in this context we have underlined that dictionaries and language collections have an important national function. Initially, this is a matter primarily involving the University of Oslo. The university is well-known under another State Council, but universities also have great autonomy. Therefore, it has been natural in this case that we have had direct contact with the university, in agreement with the Ministry of Knowledge. The project Norsk Dictionary 2014 at the University of Oslo ends after the agreement at the end of February 2015 when the work on editing the 12th and last volume has been completed. What I'm busy about now is what's going to happen to the digital version of the dictionary, which is currently available on the Internet for free. There is also a need to find a solution for language collections. The University, in a letter to the Ministry of Culture, has expressed its commitment to finding good solutions, solutions that take account of different concerns, and they want a closer dialogue with the Ministry of Culture on this matter. Of course, we are positive about this and are now inviting the university to a meeting to start such a dialogue. It is important for me to stress that I am concerned that solutions are being found to ensure the national functions that are at stake here. It's also about society getting the most back on the investments that the state has made in the major dictionary project at the university over the last 15 years. Therefore, in consultation with the Minister of Knowledge and other actors involved, I will try to find constructive solutions for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e882	I have to tell the President that I would have liked to have asked two questions today: one to the Minister of Knowledge and one to the Minister of Culture, but I am not allowed to do so in this Question Time. That's why I chose the Minister of Culture, and that's because these are important national functions. What I want the Minister of Culture to say is that these functions are to continue wherever they lie. I think it's strange of a national, leading university to think that it's almost a burden to have such a national function, a function that will also help to strengthen a professional environment that we definitely need if we're to call ourselves a nation with a language. I would like to ask the Council of State: will the Council of State do everything she can to ensure that these collections of languages will be treated well wherever they are added, and does the Council of State consider it important to have a digital version, in a new era, of the great work done with such a dictionary?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e889	The answer is yes to both questions. I'll try to help us take care of these important collections. I think it is important that we coordinate. Although it is partly under different departments, the Minister of Culture has, after all, an overall responsibility, but it does not deprive any of the departments of independent responsibility for the linguistic work. It's very important for us to get information. It is, of course, absolutely essential for us to get important information from universities in order to be able to bring things forward, and it is the university that currently has the right to access the dictionary material, the language collections and the associated digital infrastructure. As I said, I have therefore invited them to a meeting now so that we can go through it and try to find a good, constructive solution for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e896	Now the Minister of Culture has managed to answer all the questions that far, so I would have thought that my follow-up would have a little philosophical approach. What surprises me is that Norway, a country with a language of its own, and with a long and strong language tradition, also in writing, has problems attaching status to taking care of important language functions, and that it is almost a struggle where you don't want to have the big key functions to take care of our language. What does the Minister of Culture think we can do to increase the status of working with Norwegian languages, so that we don't experience having a university environment that struggles not to have that job?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e903	I think it is important for me, as responsible at an overall level, to ensure that good language policy measures are in place and that they are implemented. However, it must not deprive each department, with the responsibility of the State Council, of the responsibility to ensure that they also discharge the responsibilities they actually have. It's incredibly important. Then we have had a discussion earlier about what we can do to follow up many of the language policy measures contained in the language message. We are doing this well, not least to coordinate the law, and I have an ambition that we will return to the Stortinget with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e908	Then we go to question 5 and back to question 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e915	The question to the Governmental Council Sundtoft is as follows: ‘In Norway today, we lack knowledge of our nature. It is estimated by SABIMA that a total of 3⁄4 of the most valuable natural areas in Norway are not located. Threatened species and habitat types are often discovered late in a spatial planning process, which stops or delays, frustrates and degrades the work of all parties. Thus, natural mapping is a sensible investment in transport, housing development and industrial development, and will provide predictability in land-use planning. What is the plan of the Council of State for a comprehensive and available survey of Norwegian nature?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e924	As the representative of Rasmus Hansson, I am concerned that we should have a knowledge-based management. Land use interventions and land changes that destroy and break up the habitats of species are the greatest threat to natural diversity. A number of decisions are taken on a daily basis that have consequences for nature. In order to ensure the consideration of natural diversity, it is important that Mapped knowledge of the species and habitat types of policy-makers and the general public is available. A knowledge-based management is a key element of environmental policy and is one of the cornerstones of the Nature Diversity Act. I would like to remind you that a lot of work has been done on acquiring new knowledge about nature in recent years. However, there is no doubt that there is a need for more knowledge, including: through better nature-monitoring. The government is working to renew, simplify and improve Norway. Good knowledge of natural diversity early in the decision-making process enables the assessment of alternative location at an early stage of projects and facilitates solution-oriented cooperation between different authorities. Better knowledge also provides the basis for more targeted conditions to ensure the necessary nature considerations when projects are to be realised. I therefore believe that better and more precise knowledge of nature will often be anti-conflict and contribute to more predictability, reduced time and effective decision-making. This applies both in planning, transport and energy projects. The government is now working on an action plan on natural diversity to be presented in 2015. The action plan will address how we will achieve national and international objectives for natural diversity, including how we can improve the knowledge base. Actions will help to ensure more knowledge-based, better and more precise natural management. In this way, we will provide a better basis for sustainable use and protection of nature, while improving the efficiency and predictability of land issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e937	It is uplifting that the Council of State and I and many others clearly agree with the situation description, in the sense that the need for good natural diversity mapping is very great. But it's like that today there's a need very far from being covered, and the natural diversity is one of the big budget papers – or perhaps the big budget paper – of this year's government budget, and we're far behind schedule to stop the loss of biodiversity in 2020. Norsk Industri, Landsforening of Construction, Norsk Bergindustri and others have joined SABIMA in asking for a concrete five-year plan for a science promise for nature. Isn't it time to go straight on such a plan instead of making another one in a year, which we don't know the answer to?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e945	I have met these organizations. I am very aware of their expectations for this. I also think it is very good that SABIMA and the construction industry together are concerned about this. What they're saying is that through more knowledge, a person can get into processes earlier and thus get a better overview. That is exactly why I replied to the same organisations that we are now working on an action plan for natural diversity presented in 2015. I think it's important to take things in the right order -- first this plan, and they were satisfied with the answer when I met them.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e952	Then we go back to question 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e959	‘The size is determined by Decision No 687 on 17 June 2011 provided leadership for predatory policies and the management of gloupe, yew, wolf and bear in Norway. This agreement provides clear guidance for predators to be taken into priority grazing areas, including: Sogn and Fjordane are. The state's natural view in Sogn and Fjordane says to Bergen's Official Journal of 24 September 2014 that the West has to live with predators after both wolf and yerv have done great damage to grazing animals in Sogn and Fjordane this year. Why doesn't the Council of States support the withdrawal of these predators?'
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e966	I, as the representative of Navarsete, have a great deal of attention to the removal of predatory game that causes damage in priority pastures. There is no target for the breeding of large predators in Sogn and Fjordane. For this reason, all of the juveniles of the yews registered in the county have been taken out in the last few years. However, Sogn and Fjordane have very good habitats for predators from nature. Sogn and Fjordane are also directly bordered by priority predatory areas in other counties, for example. the management area of breeding yorks in Uppland. Rovvilt will seek to establish himself in Sogn and Fjordane. It will happen regardless of how many individual animals the administration and municipal killings are able to take out. Therefore, active management is required to prevent the establishment of predatory game in these areas. I take this seriously, and the game management is in constant readiness. The state's natural care unit records and takes out the predatory game through exceptional shelters every winter and spring, as far as practicable. Success in exceptional withdrawals depends on several factors. Among other things, weather and traffic conditions must facilitate this. Robbery individuals must also be located. Close contact between grazing and killing personnel is important here. In addition, the safety of killing personnel is central. On a country-by-country basis, the State’s nature oversight has made significant efforts with exceptional withdrawals of yours. This year, 26 attempts have been made at hi-takes, 13 of which resulted in withdrawals of yours. More than 200 working days have only been used in connection with hi-takes on yours this year. This summer, there have also been more or less continuous harm-reduction attempts on yours in Sogn and Fjordane. This is very demanding and local felling has not achieved results in the form of bottling this grazing season. Damages to livestock in priority grazing areas are also often associated with the rapid movement of predatory game over large areas. As a result, predatory game can wander into priority pastures in a short time. When this happens during the grazing season, there is little help in the fact that the State's nature oversight in advance has taken out animals that were in the area. I'm also working to make the licensing of you guys more effective, in the first place, through the increased skills of the hunters. Furthermore, I would like to consider opening up something more for the use of snowmobiles for the transport of bait and jersey booths as well as to open up to gain practical experience of using artificial light on your ate. It is likely that predatory will enter priority pastures next year. I want to make sure that the administration still has a high level of preparedness to extract predators that constitute a potential for damage.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e989	I thank you for your answer — and at least the Council of State is considering making some attempts at measures that may have a greater impact than it has seen so far. The Naddvik farmers, who have lost over 280 animals on grazing this summer, have made seven demands for measures with which the Council of State is probably aware, because the Sogn Regional Council has also taken up the matter and sent letters about it: moving the breeding zone border back to the Ottawa Valley, i.e. further east, more effective license hunt, more use of snowshooting, which was called, and light, the use of MMS cameras to monitor the york booths, which make it less necessary to go there every day, and to impose intensified withdrawals of yorks on the winter of autumn are some of the requirements. But why does the Council not follow up the agreement with effective measures now?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e998	I have actually worked almost day and night to reduce the level of conflict in predatory policies. It is demanding to manage two conflicting interests. I believe that we now through practical politics show that we are doing more than what the red-green government did in this area. Doing more on licensing is now important, in close cooperation with local hunters. I believe that we are now taking this more seriously than it has been before. We're using new tools to reduce the damage potential of yours that shouldn't be in Sogn and Fjordane.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e1005	I thank you again for your answer. It should just be lacking that one does not intensify this work after a summer when more than 500 animals have been taken by you only in my locality. After region 3 in its management plan moves the boundary of its breeding zone for you from the Ott Valley to the county border against Sogn and Fjordane, the york problem is significant. On the part of Sogn and Fjordane, state councils have repeatedly been asked to intervene and move the border back to the Ottawa Valley. There has been no meeting, and one has pointed to the mandate of predators to rule within their territories. Then my question becomes to the Council of State: How do my Council of State think that conflicts between predators who have different views should be resolved? Who will decide them? And why won't the Council of State clean up this problem that has given great growth to you in an area that will be predator-free, and thus take the responsibility of the top administrator of predator policy in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e1014	We are now working closely with the predators to limit the conflicts in the predatory game policy. Doing more through the licensing agreement is the way to do this. But the predatory game agreement also says that one doesn't preclude predators from moving through priority pastures. What the Storting has said is that it should not be predators that represent a potential for damage. That's why we're now doing more by taking out animals before the season, we're doing more through licensing cases, and we're in good dialogue with the predatory wildlife students, also looking at future boundaries between the predatory areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e1025	This question, from the representative of Kjersti Toppe to the Minister for Health and Welfare, is answered by the Minister for Justice and Security on behalf of the Minister for Health and Care, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e1028	«The hospital Telemark HF has announced on 1 October 2014 a lease for vacant hospital facilities in Kragerø and Rjukan [[on Doffin]] Will the Council of State ask the Hospital Telemark HF to withdraw the announcement until the enterprise has entered into real dialogue with the host municipalities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e1035	Let me first thank you for the question and give the following answers on behalf of Minister of Health Bent Höie: In the dialogue between the Hospital Telemark and the municipalities of Kragerø and Rjukan, following the adoption by the hospital board of the development plan on 20 May and the decision at the enterprise meeting on 5 June, it has been discussed how to establish health activity in vacant areas of the Rjukan hospital. In order to allow private operators to rent land at the premises of the Hospital Telemark, the Hospital Telemark HF has chosen to expose vacant areas of Doffin, so that all private stakeholders have equal opportunity to notify their interests to the health business. The Hospital Telemark states that the area needs of municipalities will be taken into account in this context. It was unfortunate that the municipality of Tin was not informed in advance, but I have come to understand that they were informed immediately after the call, and that this relationship is now settled between the parties. It is not appropriate to ask the Hospital Telemark to withdraw the notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e1044	I thank you for your answer. The following development plan states that the Hospital Telemark will place great emphasis on clean and orderly processes in connection with the transition to take place and that they will continue to assess the possibility of further decentralised supply and that they are planning to continue to provide a wide range of hospital facilities during the day. When the hospital behind the municipality goes out and lights out the room at the hospital, there was a stop for what was promised in the development plan that the government approved. My follow-up question is whether it wouldn't be wise to do what I suggest, to wait with the call for a clean process in the municipality and to restore the lack of trust between companies, municipalities and people in Upper Telemark.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e1055	I have to answer the question based on the knowledge I have about the matter. As I mentioned in the main reply, it should have been made known to the municipality before the call. When this is not done, I have come to understand that the cooperation between the hospital and the municipality is now good, and that they have cleaned up the conditions that have existed. Then I react a little to the concept when one says that this is done behind the municipality's back. There has not been a deliberate action as I have understood it. This has been a glitch that the healthcare company has made to clean up. So the government is generally concerned that processes should be tidy, and I have the impression that the dialogue that is now between the health company and the municipality of Tin meets that expectation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e1062	I thank you for your answer. Now it is the case that the Minister of Justice and Emergency Response answers questions on behalf of the Minister of Health and Care, so I can use my last question to ask the Minister of Emergency to get his comment on what has happened in Upper Telemark. Does the Minister of Emergency Response think that shutting down the emergency response and emergency response, as has now happened in the fall, will strengthen preparedness or weaken preparedness in Upper Telemark, decommissioning emergency surgical hospital functions and replacing them with an ambulance?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e1071	I am satisfied with the assessment that the health care provider has made, and relate to the priorities that have been set. At the same time, I am sure that the Ministry of Health and Health has a strong focus on the preparedness and security of their assessments when they manage health businesses in their own way. I have no reason to believe that the decision taken by the healthcare company should have been different, and I feel confident that the preparedness has been adequately maintained even after this change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e1080	‘The transfer of foreign jurisdictions to their home country is important for the best use of their resources by criminal services. Can the Council of State do something for the ministry to increase the number of compensation transfers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e1087	Foreigners as zones in Norwegian prisons are a major challenge. The number is growing, and they represent an increasing proportion of the total settlement day capacity. It pressures and has done so over time, for this has been a growth that has increased in particular in 2003–04, and then the arrows have actually been pointing in the wrong direction. This also has a major impact on the fight against crime in general, and it is therefore important for the government that we achieve as effective settlement transfer agreements as possible. It's demanding, but we're about to start talks with Poland and Serbia about new settlement transfer agreements there. We want to link the use of EEA funds to the possibility of building capacity in the recipient countries. We are constantly considering other bilateral agreements, including those outside Europe, where it should be possible. From the past, we have three bilateral agreements with Latvia, Lithuania and Romania. Unfortunately, experience shows that even if you have a pay-as-you-go contract, there are major challenges in obtaining a remuneration transfer. Romania is an example of how average transmission time is more than 400 days, because it is a bureaucratic system that does not exactly motivate a rapid settlement transfer. It's a very demanding challenge. We have a lot of dialogue with Romania to try to lubricate this. We have just helped to create our own plan for how to make work in Romania more efficient to achieve this. In addition, there is a requirement to retain six months of the set-aside prior to the transfer of the set-aside. We consider different mechanisms to make that work more effective. We have recently streamlined the shipment work, as there has been a certain waiting time after the approval of the settlement transfer for the shipment has taken place. It is now happening more quickly, by the fact that the foreign agency of the police has been given responsibility for those transports as well. In addition, the settlement transfer cases have been delegated to the Directorate of Criminal Welfare, which will help us to deal with matters faster than has been the case so far. It is our intention to streamline this cooperation. We turn different stones to see how we can motivate the recipient countries to accept, but the motivation is not necessarily overwhelming, because that just means that they charge themselves a cost. I think it's important that we're creative when we're looking at how we can solve these challenges in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e1104	Thank you for your reply to the Council of State. Crime agencies point to the importance of efficient settlement transfer to be able to use resources on deployments to be returned to the Norwegian community. It says itself that this is significant. It was reported in the media a few days ago that so far this year only 27 people have been transferred to housing abroad, and 40 requests are pending. If you look at numbers for the years 2012 and 2013, they were 48 and 46 respectively, so there's a lot of evidence that 2014 is going to be a bad year in this area, and we can't let developments go wrong. Representatives of the Progress Party frequently asked questions about the theme during the previous ageing period and demanded, among others. Norway had to put pressure on the use of EEA funds in relation to the country in question in order to receive more prisoners. In addition, they made the impression that this would be a simple matter to fix. I don't know, but based on what the Council says, it sounds like it's not that simple. The question is: does the Minister of Justice have any figures on how many in Norwegian prisons could ideally have been transferred to settlement in the home country?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e1117	I don't have the actual number. But there are several issues that determine whether you're transferable. It's about the length of the sentence, and it's about the length of the trial – mainly. When the procedures established take a long time, there is a reduction in the number of cases covered because six months of the judgment must remain when the settlement transfer takes place. It's not an easy problem, but we're now working to use, among other things. the EEA means as a means of ensuring a more efficient settlement transfer. We've already changed one thing that helps make it a little bit simpler, by financing the transport out of the person who's going to be restitutional. It has been done in the past by the country that is the atoning receiver. So we're doing some grips now that I think will have an effect, especially in 2015. We use the tools that are available to contribute to it. But it is a challenge that there are few incentives from the recipient countries to accept their own citizens for compensation. We work to strengthen those incentives.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e1126	Thanks for the reply from the Council of State again. This thing has multiple pages. The only thing that I call it, is with Norwegian prisoners to be repatriated, and to be able to use the resources on them. Another point is that bringing foreign citizens out of the country for a zone there reduces the risk of them committing new crimes here later. One too often sees that there are repeaters of foreign citizens without any connection to the state who charge criminal justice, and the expenditure to the state becomes as a consequence of this, of course, also very large. It cannot be that the state spends most of its resources on citizens who are not supposed to be here. What's exciting in the future is to see what kind of development you can get, because there's no simple job – I understand that. I appreciate what the Minister of Justice says he does, but I want to right if the Minister of Justice has seen some targets for how many settlement transfers the government has as an ambition to carry out in 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e1133	It's tempting to say, as many as possible. I agree with the representative, Mrs Klinge, that the compensation transfer figures for this year are too poor. I also believe that they have been too poor in the past, and that there is a much higher potential to carry out reconciliation transfers. Then there was a small mix of foreigners who committed crime in Norway in general. We are transporting a lot of people who have expulsion orders after committing criminal offences in Norway this year, many more than we've ever done before. It is important for crime prevention, but it is also important to ensure that we do not burden the settlement capacity more than is necessary. So the job now is really getting a dynamics that makes us effective at getting a reconciliation transfer out, and I think we should deliver numbers that are far better than this in the future. We are now facilitating this through the dialogue we have bilaterally, and we are working on a pan-European new system. We have now reorganized the transportation, and we have a very strong emphasis on this when we have bilateral talks with the most recent countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e1149	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Then there's case no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-15.ana.ud1461e1164	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
