ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e146	The representatives of Åsmund Aukrust, Terje Breivik, Oskar J. Grimstad, Rigmor Andersen Eide, Kenneth Svendsen, Ola Elvestuen and Tina Bru, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The meeting alternate for Oslo, Ingunn Gjerstad, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. Five permit applications are available: From the Central Party Group on sick leave of the representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien from 15 December until further notice From representatives Svein Roald Hansen, Irene Johansen, Geir S. Tuskedal and Marianne Aasen on leave from 16 December until 18 December – all to attend the Joint EEA Parliamentary Committee in Strasbourg. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: These applications shall be dealt with without delay and shall be accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of office: For Akershus County: Are HealthFor Uppland County: Ivar OdnesFor Rogaland County: Marie Liones BrekeFor Eastfold County: Wenche Olsen and Fredrik Bjørnebeck
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e229	Ivar Odnes is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e235	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that today's Storting meeting be suspended at 0 p.m. 13.45 for The Storting's Christmas ounce. Furthermore, the President will propose that the meeting be resumed at 9 p.m. 16:00 and continues until today's map has been processed. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted. Furthermore, the President will propose that the Stortinget depart from the provision of the first paragraph of Section 59 of the Rules of Procedure and vote after case No. 1 on the current map has been completed, and then total voting according to case No. 2-20 at the end of today's meeting. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e255	This is where the parties will come forward with their proposals. The President gave the floor to the representative Marianne Marthinsen of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e260	I bring up the proposals No. 1 and 2 on behalf of the Workers' Party, at the same time notifying the Workers' Party of its support for Proposal No. 7, from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e265	Snorre Serigstad Valen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e268	I'm going to deal with the proposals. 6-9, on behalf of SV, and we will support the proposal No. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e273	Swine Rotevatn.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e276	I include the suggestions from the Left in the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e294	In the spring of 2011, the Middle East was marked by hope. A generation of young people stood up in the demand for democracy and freedom. Dictatorships fell, and democratic forces prevailed. We talked about an Arab spring. But it never became an Arabic summer. Today, three years later, the Arab Spring has become an ice cold winter, and it has been a long time since the situation in the Middle East has been more difficult. In Egypt, the generals are back in the Presidential Palace. The people of Bahrain have not gained their freedom. This summer the people of Gaza were once again under bombing, and a negotiated solution between Israel and Palestine is further away than for a long time. In Syria, we are witnessing the greatest humanitarian disaster in many decades. The death tolls exceed our worst nightmare, and millions of people are driven away. With the IS mobilization in Syria and Iraq, we see abuses that are unattainable. This is a serious picture, and Norway needs to engage. This concerns us. It concerns our own security, but above all – it concerns our common human solidarity. And that's in this image of chaos and disasters it's also important to take care of what actually works. We must have our attention directed also to where it does not burn the most. Lebanon has a history of civil war and conflicts with neighbouring countries, but is today one of the countries that have actually had stability. It is perhaps the most modern and democratic Arab country. It is a country that needs our attention, because almost no matter what we discuss about the Middle East, Lebanon has a role to play. NRK correspondent Odd Karsten Tveit has called Lebanon the Middle East theatre scene. Everything that happens in the Middle East has consequences for Lebanon, everything that happens in Lebanon, has consequences for the rest of the region. That is why I wanted to have this debate – to hear the foreign minister's view of our work in Lebanon and what we can do to be involved and ensure stability and security in this country. Norway has a love band for Lebanon. Thousands of young boys and girls have served in UNIFIL forces. When we pulled out in 1998, there were over 20,000 Northmen who had been in Lebanon with the blue helmets to protect peace. It is little, if anything, that has changed Norwegian Middle East policy more than the stories of what these have experienced. When they left, Norway was one of the most Israel-friendly countries in Europe, but their stories of Israel’s brutal abuse gradually changed its position and became one of the countries that spoke the Palestinians most often. Our forces in Lebanon have been important for Norwegian foreign policy. That's one part of our connection. The other is all those who have been in Lebanon and who have worked with solidarity, who have run hospitals through NORWAC, who have cleared mines through Norwegian National Aid, or who have run refugee camps with the Refugee Aid. Many Nordics have been very committed and have contributed to important humanitarian work. Norway has been there for our friends in Lebanon, now they need us more than for a long time. There are few countries in the world that are more under pressure than they are, with conflicts on all sides and with internal mobilization in their own country. The war in Syria means that both Hezbollah, who supports Assad, and the foreign fighters of the IS constitute a serious threat to Lebanon’s stability. In the summer, there were three suicides in Beirut's center in one week, one of them in the middle of the center. Fortunately, police forces were able to minimize civilian losses, but there was a serious warning of the dangers these groups pose. IS must be combated at all levels. The Workers' Party has therefore supported military participation in the fight against this terrorist group. The concern is that it is the debate on the military to get all our attention. To win this fight, we have to meet the IS in all areas. They must meet politically, humanitarianly and civilly. This is at least as important as the military, and it is also important to be present in those areas that they haven't really got rooty so far, but where it can really go wrong. That is why Lebanon must take a holistic view of the fight against extremism. What role does the Lebanon Minister of Foreign Affairs think can play in the fight against terrorism and extremism, and how can we protect them from going outside the trap? Today there is political paralysis in Lebanon. Following the assassination of Rafiq Hariri in 2005, the political system has been fragmented and fragmented. There have been two main fractions, mainly based on the influence of Syria. For periods, the country has not had a government, and elections have been postponed. Now, as those most in need of a uniting and powerful set of rules, they stand weak and split back. It's a challenge that can lead to collapse. The greatest impact on Lebanon of the war in Syria is the huge refugee flows. Lebanon has not ratified the United Nations Convention on Refugees. Nevertheless, few countries in the world have done more for refugees than just them. Over the last three years, more than one million Syrian refugees have settled in the country. They now account for a quarter of the country's population. Clearly, this puts our own debates on refugee policy in a quite different perspective. To show the relationship of strength, it's like all the inhabitants of Canada and Mexico would live in the United States in three years. It is hardly possible to explain and understand the challenges this poses — social problems, unemployment, social dumping, crime and political unrest. The world must stand up for Syria's refugees. We must support Lebanon and other neighbouring countries in their important contribution. We need to support UN organisations such as the United Nations. High Commissioner for Refugees and UNRWA. The refugees have come out of the war, but what future do they have? There is nothing to suggest that they can return home in a very, very long time. How do we ensure that their rights are respected? How do we give children hope for a future? Do we put up with education and health, or do we make them eternal refugees? We can talk about generations that can be lost if the world does not respond. We are going to stand up to them in neighbouring countries – for Lebanon's more than one million refugees, for those in Jordan, Turkey and Iraq. But we also have to do more ourselves. Europe must stand up, both because we can, and simply because it is full in neighbouring countries. There's nowhere to be anymore. I am aware that it is not the Minister for Foreign Affairs who is responsible for how many Syrian refugees Norway should accept, but I hope he is committed to the matter, both here at home and in meetings with his colleagues in other European countries. The whole of Europe must stand up. It's important how many we accept, but maybe the most important thing is who is what we accept? How can we be a relief? We believe that we must accept those who need it the most, those who have the worst in the camps in Lebanon – injured, disabled, those with the greatest traumas. That is why I hope the Minister for Foreign Affairs is committed internally to the government on how Norway can do more. Later today, the Stortinget will discuss why the government rejected the United Nations' request to accept over 100 injured Syrian refugees. We have heard that the argument is the capacity of Norwegian municipalities. I hope the people of Lebanon did not hear that answer. The Syrian refugees in Lebanon come to the top of the 200,000-300,000 Palestinian refugees who have been there for decades. Unfortunately, history will often have it that it is the Palestinian refugees who come to the very bottom of the ranking when conflicts occur in the Middle East. That's the way it is now. In Lebanon, the Palestinian refugees have ended up as eternal refugees with very limited rights to work and residence. They live in crowded refugee camps without hope for the future. Most of them live in poverty, part of them in extreme poverty. There's no reason to think they'll get more rights in the years to come. On the contrary, the situation of the Syrian refugees has made it worse for them. These are forgotten by the world – yes, if they are not forgotten, they are at least ignored. We can't allow there to be hundreds of thousands of people who live for decades without completely elementary rights. How does the Minister of Foreign Affairs engage with the Palestinian refugees in Lebanon? Lebanon is a hard-pressed country with both internal unrest and conflicts around it on all sides. They should be part of the solution to the political and humanitarian crises in the area, not a strengthening of the problem. Then they need more space on the political map – here in Europe, here in Norway. This debate is thus a small contribution to doing just that, and I look forward to hearing the Foreign Minister's assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e330	Lebanon is hit hard by the war in Syria. A number of actors are fighting each other or coordinating operations in the border area between Lebanon and Syria. I therefore fully share the concern of the representative, Mr Aukarust, and thank you for an important initiative through this interpellation. The conflict in Syria and its flow of refugees is a great burden for Lebanon. Lebanon takes the brunt of the burden of refugees from Syria, both in absolute terms and in relation to its own population and area. Nearly one third of the population of Lebanon are now Syrian refugees. According to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, Lebanon is the world's most refugee country in relation to its own population. So to say all the refugees live outside the camps. Their presence naturally creates challenges, not least because the situation leads to increasing scarcity of resources. A majority of the refugees are in the poorest areas of the country. Infrastructure such as water supply, roads and electricity is poorly developed and not available. I myself have been in Lebanon and seen this, and Norway has stepped up our aid and our humanitarian support considerably over the past year and a half. Refugee flows put pressure on already limited resources and lead to greater labour market congestion. Some of the same features are also seen in Jordan. In this situation, of course, it is essential that Norway and the international community help Lebanon to meet the needs of refugees. At the same time, we must help Lebanon to fulfil its obligations to its own citizens. We must do this for humanitarian reasons. We must also support political stability and counteract radicalisation, as the Aukust representative was also concerned with. The Government prioritises humanitarian aid for victims of the Syrian and Iraqi conflicts and support for communities receiving large displaced groups. Together with regional and international actors, including the UN, we are working for a political solution in Syria and the region. This work is demanding. But it is also absolutely necessary. Only a political solution can provide the basis for positive developments in Lebanon and the region. Norwegian participation in the International Coalition to Combat ISIL in Iraq is part of this picture. The military capacity building to which we are going to contribute in Iraq intends to make the country more resilient to extremism. This is part of our efforts to ensure security and stability in Lebanon and other neighbouring countries. Norway shall continue to be among the largest humanitarian contributors to Syria. The total Syria response for 2014 amounts to nearly 1 billion. kr, broken down by humanitarian aid for Syrian refugees, for removing chemical weapons and not least for so-called neighbouring country aid. And there's about 220 million. humanitarian aid to Iraq. The action in Lebanon is channelled, inter alia: through Norwegian non-governmental organisations such as the Refugee Aid, the Red Barna, the Norwegian People's Aid and the Norwegian Aid Committee, as well as the UN and the Red Cross. We pay particular attention to the distribution of emergency aid, shelter, water and sanitation, education and health care. The government has a specific focus on education, including support for the UNICEF No Lost Generation strategy. The majority of Norwegian support to neighbouring countries is humanitarian. However, funding is also provided for longer-term actions, both through the World Bank, the United Nations and through direct long-term support. Last week Norway gave 25 million. kr to the World Bank's Syria response. Twenty million. This will primarily be used in Lebanon. This is going to add up to 10 million. kr to the World Bank’s Multi-stakeholder Fund for Lebanon and Jordan, which was granted earlier this year. The aim of our support for Lebanon is to assist Syrian refugees in the country and to contribute to increased political stability in the light of the Syrian conflict. It is then important to enable Lebanon to provide basic services to its own population. Norway was the first country to respond to the call to contribute to a stabilisation fund for Lebanon by taking the lead in the creation of the fund at all through the World Bank. There was an important meeting in Paris this spring, and Norway will continue to press for this MIF to be the basis for building a Lebanon capable of coping with the ongoing crisis. As the only country, we contributed directly to the work of the Lebanese authorities with the Syrian refugees, through cooperation with the Lebanese Social Ministry. Many Northmen have a close relationship with Lebanon, on which the interpellant was involved in its inception. More than 21,000 Northmen participated from the establishment of the UN peacekeeping force in Lebanon, UNIFIL, until the Norwegian personnel contribution was finally completed in 2009. We continue to contribute to the funding of UNIFIL. Only in the last six years does this amount to nearly 150 million. kr – no later than 29 mill. kr in year. Norway has been running an oil for development programme in Lebanon over a number of years. Norway has stressed the need to engage in an open and broad political dialogue with all the political actors in Lebanon, which we believe is a positive contribution to the stability of the country. Against this background, including arenas for political discussion in Lebanon have also been established. In 2014, about 300 people from Lebanon were resettled in Norway. In the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we agreed to increase the quota for the next year from 1,000 to 1,500 Syrian refugees. Many of these are expected to be taken from Lebanon. Despite our efforts and the efforts of many other countries, there is unfortunately no prospect of an immediate improvement in the situation in the region. The government will continue its efforts to meet the needs of the refugees and their host communities. We will do what we can to build under the political stability of Lebanon and the rest of the region. Together with other countries, we will contribute to the fight against ISIL by military, political, ideological and economic means.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e358	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for what I thought was a good answer. I share many of his considerations. He refers to the seriousness of the situation throughout the region, not least for the Lebanese people. It is under-communicated in the international debate how much of the burden of conflicts in the Middle East, Lebanon, is taking on. They have done so in the Israel–Palestinian conflict for decades by being in conflict themselves while accepting hundreds of thousands of Palestinian refugees. Now this is also the country most affected by the war in Syria, both with refugees internally and by moving the war to Lebanon. At the same time, this is a country with great internal unrest, and we must remember that it has not been many years since Lebanon itself was under bombing from Israel. I think it is good that the Minister for Foreign Affairs should explain how Norway has contributed humanitarianly, inter alia. We were one of the first countries to contribute to the MIF. It was an important and good start, but it needs to be done more, because while the refugee disaster is now completely out of proportion, we see that many of the UN organisations that are going to accept these are lying with their broken back and asking the world for more help. My question to the Foreign Minister is also whether he can say more about how we help the refugees when they are out of the war. They have no prospect of returning home, so how do we secure them a future? They've come out of war, but how do we also give them hope for a future? Finally, I would like to hear the Minister for Foreign Affairs explain more about how they are dealing with the Palestinian refugees, who have once again come under the shadow of the great refugee disasters in the Middle East. These Palestinian refugees have been living without rights for decades in Lebanon. How do we ensure that they are granted rights – both to the Palestinian refugees who have been in Lebanon for many years, including the Palestinian refugees who now come in from Syria? The group that now comes from Syria — Palestinians in Syria — is the most marginalized group of Syrian refugees. Now a lot of these refugees are choosing to stay in Syria, because for them it's better to be in the war in Syria than to come to the neighbouring countries, because the situation in the refugee camps is so unsustainable.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e371	It was initially a difficult situation in Lebanon, even before Syria ended up in a war and conflict situation. We know that there are strong contrasts between different groupings, but you have been able to deal with this in recent years. But in a situation where Syria has gone from being a middle-income country four years ago to becoming a humanitarian disaster, and where – as the inter-pellant was involved – Hezbollah and important parts of the Shia Muslim population in Lebanon are supporting Assad, and the rest of the population are not doing so, there have been quite large internal conflicts. Hezbollah now actively participates with soldiers fighting on the side of Assad in Syria; there are several thousand who are in Damascus, and now also in the area against Aleppo. What is absolutely crucial in the years to come is that we continue to step up international support and solidarity for Lebanon. The humanitarian needs are enormous. One area in which I want us to do more in Norway is, among other things, education. The government has now adopted a proposal that we should step up the training effort by 640 million. kr to next year. We believe that we should continue to do more within the No Lost Generation programme for refugee children who have come to Lebanon. Many of them are in a situation where they do not have access to school. We are working closely with Gordon Brown, who is the UN Secretary-General's special education programme, not least in Lebanon. We will continue to back up on the MIF. It looks very dark to the refugees who are now in Lebanon, but we have to help make their lives better than they are today, through the support I presented, and through various UN organisations. In the case of the Palestinians and Palestinian refugees, their situation is difficult. We know that many Palestinians who have wanted to escape from Syria do not get out, and we also see that the control at the borders of Jordan and Lebanon is now tightened. With regard to the situation of Palestinian refugees who have been in hundreds of thousands in Lebanon for too many years, we are working closely with the UNRWA organisation. The head of UNRWA, Pierre Krähenbühl, was visiting Norway a week ago, and we discussed how we can support his work and his visions of UNRWA.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e382	Last year I was so lucky that I got to attend – as part of the delegation – the UN General Assembly. It leads to a wide range of meetings with different organisations in New York. There was one recurring theme in those meetings, and that was the situation in Syria. So this is now one year ago. It was a deep, deep concern, and the High Commissioner for Refugees himself already described the situation as the worst humanitarian disaster since World War II. It's a very strong description, and there's nothing to suggest that the situation has improved since last year. I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for his reply, which I believe was good and reflected. Not least, there is a tone of desire to provide more assistance. I believe that Norway is a significant contributor, both in the area and in relieving the refugee situation. Then we have some domestic discussions about the level is right, and how much more it's going to be. Of course, in the Labour Party we will do a little more than the government, also in this area, but I believe that the Foreign Minister is drawing up as a direction to go, are important contributions to remedy the situation. My main concern today, however, is to challenge the Minister for Foreign Affairs on some initiatives that I think we should consider taking. In April, I addressed a question to the Minister for Coordination of EEA Affairs and Relations with the EU. That question was transferred to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. That is why I think it is right to review some of the assessments, because I do not think the answer that came in April, in so far as it was comprehensive, and I ask the Foreign Minister to take it with me and assess it. That's because the situation in Syria and the Middle East is extraordinary. It also requires extraordinary efforts, so there are three areas in which I believe we have major challenges, which we cannot solve here today, but which we must continue to work with. One is the impact of the refugee situation in the Middle East on the Mediterranean and traffic across the Mediterranean. The Italians had a major operation going on. It has now been reduced due to a lack of financial resources, and the EU has taken over from 1 November. It is linked to boat refugees crossing the Mediterranean. There, I think we just have to assume that Norway also has to play a role. For example, Norwegian shipowners report having major challenges related to this. The second initiative we should consider is whether we should not again address the issue of burden-sharing in Europe. There is a considerable pressure against the Schengen border of refugees. Countries around the Mediterranean have major challenges. They also have the worst financial assumptions. We know that this has been a discussion before, but it may be time to review the discussion again. The third relates to an exceptional effort justified by the situation in Syria. In the 1990s, when there was a crisis in the Balkans, we made such extraordinary efforts, Norway and several other European countries. For Norway, we said that we should take 8 000 refugees from the Balkans. We did. It was a success. Many of them have had a good life in Norway. Many were given a temporary place to build a basis for a longer life and have also travelled home afterwards. I would challenge the Foreign Minister to consider whether we should not take an initiative to discuss this case at European level. Can Europe make an extraordinary effort to address the crisis we are experiencing in Syria by taking an exceptionally large proportion of acids for a time-limited period, in order to try to remedy the situation, including: in Lebanon?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e397	I would also like to thank the inter-pellant August for taking up the situation in Lebanon, which is the neighbouring country that is most aware of the consequences of the cruel Syrian civil war. The situation of Syrian refugees in the region is precarious. More than three million have fled since the start of the war, and more than one third, i.e. more than 1.1 million, have fled to neighboring Lebanon. The consequences of this for Lebanon are dramatic: the infrastructure capacity is far beyond the gap point, many refugees are left to shed and abandoned construction sites, the water and electricity supply for the population is inadequate, the health care system in the country is unable to accept all those with acute and serious illness, and in addition there is an increase in violence, crime and the struggle for jobs where cheap Syrian labour competes. For any country it will be extremely demanding to absorb over one million refugees. This is particularly difficult for Lebanon because of the underlying and lasting problems in the country. Although Lebanon has a constitution, problems have been encountered in establishing a stable political system and governance. It's partly due to Hizbollah's strong influence through military militias. Although Syria formally withdrew from Lebanon in 2005, it has continued to undermine its role by interfering in elections and preventing the development of a safe and reliable framework for the population. Although the ISILS footprint has not been as marked as in Iraq, there were violent clashes in Tripoli in the north and in Arsal at the border with Syria by October, as well as between the Lebanese army and Sunni groupings linked to the ISIL and the Al-Nusra frontline of Al-Qaeda. Lebanon has now been without President since May due to the rivalry between Hizbollah-supported parties and the Sunni Muslim «Future Movement». International pressure is important to implement a presidential election and to have a government that respects and respects the country's constitution. The main focus of the government in development policy is education, especially for children in conflict areas. Understandably, schools in Lebanon do not have the capacity or resources to receive the large number of children coming. According to figures from the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, in 2014, Lebanon has been able to provide schooling for about 90 000 Syrian refugee children, while there are still about 385,000 who do not receive schooling. In cooperation with UNHCR, including: Save the Children and the Refugee Aid, established Lebanese authorities in May this year a strategy to build schools with the necessary equipment. The goal is to provide more than 400,000 children with education by 2016. It is important to follow up the work of ensuring schooling in order to avoid generations losing both education and the future. As one of the largest contributors to Syria and the countries in the region, Norway is working closely with other countries contributing, both financially and with a view to achieving political results. Norway is already accepting a large proportion of Syrian refugees. The government has made changes to the aid facility, where increased funds are released and directed towards humanitarian assistance and emergency assistance to respond to the increased need. Overall, support to Syria and neighbouring countries in 2014 is now close to 1 billion, to which the Minister for Foreign Affairs was involved. kr – with addition of approximately 220 million. humanitarian aid to Iraq. The funds go primarily to shelters, water and sanitary equipment, food aid, emergency health and education. On 1 December, the World Food Programme announced that because of the lack of funding, they had to suspend the supply of food vouchers to 1.7 million refugees. It was then important that the government immediately increased the Norwegian contribution by 70 million. kr, earmarked for this work. So Norway contributes significantly, and takes a significant responsibility. Through the budgetary agreement, the number of quota refugees has increased by 500, so that Norway will receive more than 2000 next year. In addition, humanitarian efforts are increased by 424 million. NOK to be able to respond quickly. In a picture, Lebanon has become a lifeboat for Syrian refugees, but it is a crowded lifeboat and a great risk that it will be able to bend and sink. In addition to deploying aid in Lebanon, Jordan and neighbouring countries, there is an urgent need for a political solution in Syria. It is therefore critical that the UN's efforts in Syria succeed and that the proposed Armistice Agreement be implemented in a short time. The success of international forces in the fight against ISIL is also essential. Only if the civil war in Syria ends can real incentives for a safe return of refugees from Lebanon be put in place. I am therefore pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is showing action and that he shares the impatience in the work for peace and stability in this region.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e425	Let me also start by thanking the interpellant for addressing an important issue. I have to admit that I think the interpellant becomes something historyless when he talks about the Arab spring and youth that got up in the fight for democracy and freedom. It is possible that I have not read the same newspaper articles and seen the same TV series as the interpellant, but I do not want to say that this was the penetrating message I heard – nor is it what came just after. Then you can talk about who's responsible for the different relationships, Western interaction, etc., but in any case that wasn't what I thought was the most prominent point. I also saw at least a lot of religious fanaticism hidden in these uprisings, which apparently the interpellant thought was just democracy and freedom. One million Syrian refugees in Lebanon – yes, that is bad. They have no future, says the interpellant. They may not have a future, but here we're going to help them – we're trying to do that. But there is no solution to bringing some of these refugees to Europe. The goal must be to get temporary help there, so that they can travel back. So the interpellant claims that there is no room in neighbouring countries, in the neighbourhoods. And then, as Reinfeldt, former Swedish Prime Minister, said, there's a lot of space in the Nordic region -- here's a lot of forest and many trees. He had flown over two of the countries and found out that here they might be. Well, I don't think that's a good solution either. I think we should try to get them back, so that they can build their own country. The goal of each refugee must be to return to his own country and contribute to building up — not to bring out the most resource-intensive in order not to build up. At least it's my vision. I don't think I'm that small either with the rest of the Norwegian population. I take the responsibility to say that I think there are many who share that point of view that I am speaking to, but as it is very little politically correct to say. Nor can I hear the cries of the Labour Party rapporteurs in the local government around: Yes, let us accept refugees! I think the Aukust representative should perhaps turn to his own Labour Party rapporteurs and ask them to accept refugees who already need a place – there are already thousands of refugees in Norway. It is easy to be tall and dark on the platform and say that Norway is not going to pay for it itself, and believe that it is the taxpayers and others who are going to put up and pay shelter for those who come to this country. When they come to this country, there are actually some appliances out there that are going to do something for them – there are some school classes to be set up, there are different institutions that need to be strengthened. This costs money, and it goes beyond the well-being of all of us. I dare say. In fact, there is well-being in Norway. It affects pensions, it affects all other welfare schemes in Norway, if we receive more and more refugees. In addition, this has created instability in Europe. More and more countries in Europe are experiencing instability by receiving more and more refugees. Neither is this the solution – I think we all really see that this is not the solution. Then we have to find a solution that's better, that's to help them in the neighbourhoods, so that they can go back. That's the solution. So instead of taking 500 refugees to Europe, you can help 14,000 refugees in the neighbourhoods – on average. Is it, then, merciful to take some refugees to Europe, or is it merciful to help wherever possible, in the neighbourhoods? We have to do both, you say. If you're going to do both, you're going to help everyone. Is it not best to help as much as possible, or is it best to pursue symbol politics and take someone to Europe and say: Look how good we are, how merciful we are, how moral we are! No, the very best thing is to help them where they are, so we can help more people. Then they can travel back the day it is possible to travel back – and build up their own country. There have been refugee disasters in Europe for many years – many decades, many hundreds of years. The goal has always been to travel back and build up their own country. It must be the goal of refugees – whether they come from Iraq, from Syria, whether they are in Lebanon or elsewhere. Yes, we'll help. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has said that we have contributed 1 billion. kr. to different applications. For my part, we have to contribute more, but the point is: we have to help them where they are, so that they can travel back and build their own country – and then also take responsibility for their own situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e448	Five to six years ago, I had the joy of meeting Amin Malouf, one of the greatest writers of our time, in my view, and probably the most famous Lebanese for us in the West. His life sums up the kind of country that Lebanon is in many ways. He was born in a small village, he spoke Arabic as his native tongue, but he went to a French school. He is born in a country where Islam is the dominant religion, but he himself is a Christian. He is a fugitive, because he was an editor of a profiled newspaper, and in 1975 he was forced to flee the country and has since bid in France. He has published literature based not least on migration and the meeting between religions and cultures in the Middle East, for example. the book ‘The Crusades seen on the Arab side’. I would recommend that anyone who understands the Middle East read it. On Lebanon’s day of independence, November 22, preschool children in the city of Arsal, north of Lebanon, were asked to sign the flag. Many draw the flag of ISIL and Jabhat al-Nusra. Arsal is a border town and is in a way the epicenter of Lebanon’s meeting with ISIL – yet it is speaking – and the threat from ISIL can be felt directly in parts of Lebanon. But Lebanon's meeting with what is now happening in the Middle East, is happening right now, however, most strongly through the refugee situation. Lebanon has a 360 km long border with Syria. As of December 9, there were over 1.1 million officially registered Syrian refugees. Everyone calculates that the real number is significantly higher because many refugees don't register. About a quarter of Lebanon's population are no Syrian refugees. But the challenges are not only in numbers and quantities, but also in other areas: Lebanon has not joined the Refugee Convention, and they have no official refugee camp, since they will not be a party to the war in Syria. As a result, Syrian refugees do not have the rights normally granted to refugees under international conventions. They are totally dependent on unofficial refugee leaders, on support from the local population and various relief organisations. And research shows that as much as 20 pst. of the people of Lebanon have a Syrian refugee living at home. The problem is that very many people are unable to pay for themselves, because the help comes mainly through coupons and not through cash, which leads to serious dissatisfaction and conflicts associated with it, of course. In addition, there is a major problem in the labour market in Lebanon, because very many refugees want to work. There is a large informal labour market, with lower wages, which pushes Lebanese out of the labour market. So the Syrian refugee situation in Lebanon is not only very pressured in numbers, but it also threatens to increase the already strong, underlying conflicts that exist in Lebanese society, and threatens stability there. Ideas now also show that a number in Lebanon will have stricter border control and fuller stoppages in the influx of refugees to Lebanon. It is quite simply that the refugee situation we are now seeing in Lebanon is a threat to both the stability we have appreciated in Lebanon over the last few years, and that is what Lebanon is – a very important country with a positive role in the Middle East in many ways. The reasoning that we are helping more people in Lebanon than in Norway is an intellectual card house. It would come together if you breath on it – or if one looks marginally into the situation in Lebanon. So what should we do? First of all, we can contribute even more financially. I am very pleased that the government has increased humanitarian support in the budget for next year. SV has proposed an extra billion, because 2014 is the year since World War II that there are most refugees and internally displaced persons in the world, and an extreme situation requires an extraordinary response from Norway and other countries. Secondly, we can accept more, as SV has proposed, which will be discussed later today. Now we know that a lot of municipalities – not least big cities – have decided that they are willing to accept some more, not least those who need it the most. It is also the appeal from Amnesty and other organizations internationally to all governments: accept some of those who really need the most – disabled children, those who are really hurt. In addition, I found it interesting to hear the Foreign Minister's reply to Eirik Sivertsen's invitation to take the lead in a European effort, which I believe will be a very wise and important initiative from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e467	Lebanon is an interesting country, which many Nordics know well or at least have heard a lot about. The main reason for this is that more than 20 000 Norwegians served in the UN-led UNIFIL force in Lebanon, mainly over a twenty-year period from 1978 to 1998. Yes, during periods Norway was actually the country that contributed most of the crews to UNIFIL, mostly up to 900. 21 of the North died in UNIFIL. So far an international exposure sets tracks. Many have long - lasting friendships, and many of those who served continue to travel to Lebanon. We have all heard stories that Norwegian phrases can still be heard in Lebanese villages. Norway entered Lebanon in 1978 to contribute to peace in Lebanon, and thus also in the region as such. For Lebanon, there is a very special role and position in the region, which was precisely addressed both by the inter-pellant and by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Norway should not forget Lebanon with the long engagement we have had in the country, and especially now that it has new, major challenges. Lebanon, which is no larger than the Aust-Agder counties to the extent, is a patchwork of different ethnic and religious groups. Most are Arabs, both Muslims and Christians, a very large Armenian minority, many Ethiopians, hundreds of thousands of Palestinian refugees and so now almost an incredible number of Syrian refugees. Since Lebanon's independence more than 70 years ago, the country has been put to many tests, as well as today with the huge refugee problem. I have recorded that from some teams in Lebanon recently the question of international assistance to guard the borders of the country has been raised. The question of strengthening UNIFIL has also been raised by me. If there is a request for increased international assistance through UNIFIL or by other means, I hope Norway will be positive. Norway should not forget Lebanon.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e480	I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for a good debate and for many good speeches. This shows the importance of having a political debate around Lebanon. During the next year, the majority is likely to discuss several times the behaviour of ISIL/IS in Iraq and Syria, but this is also where Lebanon has to enter into the picture. Buffing up where things can go wrong is almost as important as helping out where things are already going wrong. I think Sweare Myrli kept a good post now finally. He talked about Norway having history to set up for Lebanon, and that if there is a request to set up UNIFIL, we should do it again. Christian Tybring-Gjedde argued that 1 000 – or 2 000 – refugees were a major threat to the Norwegian welfare state. Well, that argument is even better if we talk about one million refugees, which is actually what Lebanon accepts! So when he's worried about 1,000, 2,000, 3,000 – or 5,000, for that matter – yes, we can only imagine what the burden Lebanon is taking on. It's true, as it's been said by several: it's just full, there's no longer any place to be on the run, the boundaries are closed, now it's closed for those who need it the most. Then we have to do more. Then the Foreign Minister should engage at European level in order to make his colleagues make greater efforts, and then we must make greater efforts at home. I think it is good that the budgetary agreement makes it possible to accept 500 more refugees, but in general this does not make the huge difference. If we're going to make a difference, we're going to have to accept those who need it the most. That's why I thought it was wrong when the new government statement said that it was the need for integration that was to be considered when we were to accept refugees. No, when we accept 500, 1,000, 1,500, we should accept those who need it the most. That's the way we can really make a difference and take part of the burden on Lebanon and neighbouring countries. It's going to Christmas, and I want to take the opportunity to wish the Foreign Minister a very good Christmas, I think it's the last time he's in Stortinget before Christmas. But first of all, the thoughts of all those who are going into a cold winter, the Syrian refugees in Lebanon, the Palestinian refugees in Lebanon who are going into a cold Christmas celebration, but not least a dreadfully heavy year in front of them. Yesterday, we lit three lights in the advent roof, and then we said, "Three lights are for everyone who has to fight. For justice and for freedom. They need help from us." Yesterday I lit three lights for Syria's refugees in Lebanon.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e498	I would once again like to thank the inter-pellant for addressing an important question, perhaps the most serious issue we are facing today, namely the crisis that the civil war in Syria has created – extremism, terrorism, the worst refugee disaster in recent times. There should be no doubt that Norway will continue to do so. We are to be the leaders in providing humanitarian aid, and in terms of developments in this area. We are one of the biggest donors, and we have now increased our capacity to contribute humanitarianly. The capacity we have had in 2014 has been good, but we get more capacity through the increase, among other things. in the humanitarian budget for 2015. We did not have the corresponding increase in 2014, in the budget I have been dealing with, in the current year. So I believe that the effort we will get through education means a lot in this region, not least in Lebanon, Turkey and Jordan. We have to make sure that it doesn't grow up a generation of children who don't go to school in this area – without education, no future. It is more important than ever to support the Staffan de Mistura, the UN Special Mission to Syria, in order to create the basis for a political consensus. Geneva 1 and Geneva 2 must be implemented, and there are initiatives now on the part of both the European Union, the United States and Russia, and in the region, which may indicate that there is at least some dialogue on the basis of: What kind of policy solutions can be seen in the future, so that we can phase out al-Assad, get a new regime in Syria based on the moderate opposition – and on Geneva 1 and 2? That must be the starting point for the fight against ISIL in Syria. Norway shall do more in the future, including within the refugee area. We can receive 1,500 refugees according to the budget unit that was now in place. Norway is, in absolute terms, one of the countries in Europe which receives most quota refugees through the High Commissioner for Refugees. Both in absolute terms and in relation to the population, we are one of the countries that receives the most — it is also part of this picture — as well as what we do in the humanitarian field.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e511	The debate on substance is closed. So 2 is going to be over. At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 3 and 4 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e538	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 35 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a change of line of up to four lines with replies from main speakers from each group and six lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e549	I assume that the respective parties themselves explain their tax and tax arrangements for 2015, and I will therefore concentrate in my article on the government and the Right proposal for taxes and taxes. For the right, it is important to work towards a lower level of taxation in order to make Norway more robust to meet the challenges of the future, not least during a transition period where the growth momentum of the oil sector is expected to deteriorate in the future and the need for new jobs, secure jobs is increasing. Values must be created before they can be distributed. This is an important starting point for the government's fiscal policy and in line with both the cooperation agreement between the government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left and Sundvolden Declaration. We believe that we have provided a solution in line with this through the government's original proposal and the budgetary agreement that was concluded between the four cooperation parties on 21 November 2015. The main objective of the government's fiscal policy is to finance common resources as efficiently as possible. Taxes and charges should be designed to maximise the use of resources. The combination of broad tax bases, low tax rates and tax equal treatment of industries, businesses and investments will contribute to this. These guidelines have been leading the way in the last two decades, and this is also the basis of the government’s tax regime. The government aims to reduce the overall level of taxation in order to spread power, increase value creation and give greater freedom to families and individuals. The world has become more global. Both capital and people move on simpler and faster than before. This gives some leads to a national tax debate. Firstly, it is important to maintain the desire of the Nordics to invest in their own country. That is why we need to develop a tax system that makes this more attractive. Secondly, we need to reduce the scope of action for international tax adaptation and the erosion of the Norwegian tax base. The government is working for a more growth-enhancing and simpler tax system. Last week, Norway’s Bank reduced its interest rate by 0.25 percentage points to 1.25pst. The oil price has fallen sharply, and the growth in the Norwegian economy has weakened. Uncertainty about future developments is high. This was also thoroughly highlighted in the financial debate on the state budget for 2015, which we had in Stortinget on 1 December. The activity in the petroleum industry is decreasing, causing ring-effects to the economy. It is important that the government provides a budget and a tax package that responds to these challenges, responding to the need for safe jobs and the need for new jobs. Then we need to encourage investments in the future. This is why government’s commitment to growth-enhancing areas such as knowledge, research and development, transport and other infrastructures is important. The government is solving important tasks today and equips Norway for the future. In the tax system, we provide a policy to help strengthen growth capacity in the future. We will organise our tax policy in a way that will make it more attractive to work, save, invest and act environmentally friendly. The government's initial draft budget for 2015 contained new tax reductions of nearly 8.3 billion. kr bn and SEK 6.9 bn. I have been booked. After the budgetary agreement, these figures have changed slightly. One of the main steps in the tax regime is the reduction in property taxes. Reduce the rate by 1.0 pst. to 0,85 pst. and the bottom deduction is increased from 1 million. SEK to 1.2 million. kr per person and from 2,0 mill. NOK 2.4 million. kr for married couples. In order to reduce the tax favorisation of property investment, the secondary and commercial real estate valuation discount is set at 30 pst. There are also large tax reliefs on income. The minimum deduction is increased for wages, salaries, social security and pensions. Less will pay top taxes as the entry point increases. Strengthening the working line. In addition to the tax changes, it is also proposed to cut and convert a number of charges. Among other things, there is considerable relief on the vehicle by reducing the average re-registration fee by 35 pst. The budgetary agreement makes a number of other changes to promote more environmentally friendly behaviour, such as: a lower charge on hybrid cars by eliminating the lowest achievable one-off charge and increasing the deduction of the weight component of the one-off charge to 26 pst. for plug-in hybrid vehicles. Increased turnover requirements for biofuels for road transport, half the user charge for bioethanol and removal of the user charge on biodiesel – to mention some of the grips made towards a green tax shift. It is gratifying that the entry point for the rent tax is increased from 5 to 10 VAT, as promised in the Sundvolden Declaration, thus contributing to greater profitability for renewable energy production in small-scale power plants across the country. Furthermore, it is also positive that the government signals better depreciation rules for wind turbines in order to stimulate investment in Norway under the common electricity licence market with Sweden. As is known, half of this scheme is financed by Norwegian consumers, and at that time at least half of the investments in new renewable energy production should take place here in Norway. There has been a lot of discussion about the taxes on wealth and the changes proposed. For the government and for the right, it is important to implement reductions in this tax. This is important because: Firstly, the property tax is capped by Norwegian capital companies that could have been invested in safe jobs. Secondly, the taxes on wealth are hostile to entrepreneurs. There will be no more business start-ups, value creation and employment of demanding a high special-purpose tax on Norwegian jobs and then giving some of that in different innovation packages afterwards. Thirdly, property taxes contribute to more short-term ownership than long-term ownership. Fourth, the wealth tax weakens the ability to strengthen diversity and local ownership. Fifthly, the wealth tax penalises normal savings. Sixth, property taxes have to be paid regardless of whether the enterprise is running in profit or in deficit and reduce the ability of Norwegian enterprises to invest in innovation, development and new jobs. For the seventh, the property tax favours foreign interests and gives Norwegian-owned jobs a competitive disadvantage because the property tax is levied only on Norwegian citizens, not on foreign owners. I find it difficult to find one single good argument as to why we should favour foreign owners at the expense of Norwegian owners to Norwegian companies and jobs. Why should a Chinese owner, a British owner or other foreign owners be favored over a Norwegian owner? We welcome foreign investors to invest in Norway, but this should take place within a framework of competition neutrality, and the wealth tax is distorting competition in favour of foreign investors. That the wealth tax is a problem can be illustrated by a notice in NRK Telemark published on 17 November 2014. Under the heading ‘Norwegian investors fail the industry’, it appears that no Norwegian investors have been willing to invest in new magnesium factories on the island of Here Island in Porsgrund. So far, the magnesium producer SilMag has only foreign investors in his back. In an entry at NRK Telemark the following day, a regional investor in Grenland found that the framework conditions were too bad and that the property tax had to be removed in order to make it interesting for him to invest. We depend on both the ability to invest and the willingness to invest to secure existing jobs and create new jobs. Right wants to make it more attractive to invest and thus facilitate growth at a time that will be more demanding in the future, where the growth momentum of the petroleum sector into the economy as such will be weaker. An effective and effective tax regime is an important framework for achieving this. Right-wing efforts to create a more growth-enhancing and simpler tax system. It is worth working, saving and investing, and it is worth paying to be environmentally friendly. Such a tax policy will have a positive impact on value creation, competitiveness and income over time. Right wants to develop new ideas and better solutions to meet the challenges Norway has today and will have in the future. Tax policy increases private sector growth and strengthens Norwegian private ownership. More profitability in business creates safe jobs. Finally, I would like to thank the members of the Committee on Finance for a good cooperation on the tax regime for 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e618	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e621	The government has proposed to state the tax collection. This is not a new proposal. It has been investigated several times in the past, but you have chosen not to proceed with it, for example. because municipal tax collection is as effective as it is – in fact, with a higher rate of collection than the country has been able to achieve. So it's also that many municipalities are concerned that municipal chemistry is very important in order to have good local financial management. I would like to read to the representative Meling a letter from the Finance Agency of Oslo, Eirik Lae Solberg, to the Finance Committee of the City Council, where he among other things. writes: ‘The competence of the Agency is also important in contexts other than the collection of taxes.’ He points out that he is dependent on working with Kemnerkontoret to get a good basis for drawing up the tax estimates and following them up throughout the year. So he clearly writes that he wants to keep the Kemnerkontoret together as a municipal office. Does the representative Meling think that her party trap, the financial agency Eirik Lae Solberg, is wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e635	This government is concerned that we should use resources in the most efficient way possible and collect taxes in the most efficient way possible. Now, of course, this matter of the governmentization of the chemistry function is sent to the hearing, and we are waiting, of course, for the recordings that come in this consultation round. But it's clear that the starting point is that one sees that by changing the structure, one can do the work as efficiently as possible, but using less resources. We think that makes sense with regard to the good management of taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e640	Last week I was in Valdres, at the Feners, in the President's constituency, and there was a very busy assembly. Among other things, they went on demonstration trains to keep their own prison — it's polite — and they even made their own song for prison. But in addition to prison, they wanted to keep the tax office and were very concerned that they had created a common tax office for the entire Valdres region – there were about 20 skilled jobs that meant a lot to the whole region. Why has the Right notified that it wishes to publicise the workplaces, when it is known that there are going to be so many local environments — and the workplaces they have in their local settings — at risk?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e645	As I said in my previous answer, we from the Right and the Government are concerned with managing resources in the most efficient way possible. Publicising the function of chemistry, building up some areas of expertise around the country to get this done, means that we can save some money, and not least it can free up some of the workforce currently used by the different municipalities. Now this case has been sent to the hearing, and the government will of course await the recordings coming in the hearing. But the starting point is to manage resources in the best possible way and at the same time ensure that we have an effective collection of the tax credits.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e650	Today it is approx. 44 000 State jobs in Oslo. It is the city that gets the most help and growth power through the location of state jobs, without equal. Part of the overall thinking is that you should also have government jobs around the country. When you look at the tax collection, you see that municipal tax collection is the most effective. When we see all the ring-effects, that they are most effective – and the Right itself has said that a person wants to deliver new tasks to the municipalities, and that a reform is to be carried out afterwards, when they are given new tasks – why do you start by taking away from the municipalities a functioning function?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e655	I want to say that both the Right and the Bondevik II government, ten years ago, did some battle violence of Vedum's own party and the red-green government did not succeed in much the same degree, and it was moving out state jobs around the country. Obviously, we want to use the whole country, but we also want to spend taxpayers' money in the most efficient way possible, and we want to use municipal resources in the most efficient way possible. Here, if we can release both money and human resources to others, important tasks, I think it might be a reasonable approach to the consultation process that is now going to take place to look at changes in the chemical function in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e660	The complainants themselves state that their proximity to the debtors, their ability to be flexible and to make solutions with the debtors, makes it possible to collect and collect more money than the state can. I fully agree with the representative Meling that he wanted the most efficient management of the state and public resources possible, but when we know that the recovery rate in the state is about 99,4 p.m. and in the municipalities 99,8 pst., there are large values that can potentially be lost as a result of the government’s proposal. Does not the representative Meling agree that the most effective management of Community resources also involves giving responsibility to our local democracy, with the benefits it brings?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e668	I agree that we must achieve the most effective management possible. It is clear that this can be a close point, but if the representative looks at the tax collection that is taking place, for example. In Oslo, Oslo is a very big city, where there are many people and many different urban areas, and yet it works well. If you have regional offices that take care of this, I think we'll be able to see the good results of tax collection, while spending less money and less human resources to get this done. That's what I think we all have to be concerned about: making our society work as efficiently as possible, so that we get as much back for our taxpayers.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e673	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e676	Two key features of the Norwegian welfare model are high participation in employment and a tax system that finances our common well-being. The tax system therefore needs to be set up in a way that contributes to value creation, and jobs and revenues adapted to the scale and quality of the public services we want. In addition, the tax system shall contribute to reducing societal differences and shifting consumption towards a sustainable direction. For the Workers' Party, it is important to have a tax system that is effective, simple, predictable, fair and redistributive. This requires companies to have good and predictable framework conditions, to encourage employees to work, to contribute to the fissure layer, and to carry the heaviest burden with the strongest back. The tax system should be broad-based and low rates – minimal exceptions and gaps – and should be progressive. Norway has bigger challenges than the country's richest paying too much tax, and it's hard to imagine that we're solving some of the challenges of the richest paying less tax. The government's largest single investment, cut in wealth taxes, is a low-efficiency, low-performance way of strengthening Norwegian business, but it is very accurate to increase differences. The government's own calculations show that the 15 pst. The richest in the country receives more than 90 pst. of the tax base. In the 2014 draft budget, the government showed that they would take Norway in a direction of increasing disparities. In 2015 they take much longer steps in that direction. With the government's proposal, they would have 5 pst. The richest of us get almost half of the total tax, while 85 pst. of those with the lowest wealth would get at the bottom of 40 pst. This is in stark contrast to the promises of tax cuts to most people. Since the government joined, the tax rate for the individual family with average income, with no wealth and with two children in kindergarten is significantly less than the increase in the family's childcare bill with the government's total increase in child care prices. In order to finance tax cuts to the richest of the country, the government proposed in its draft budget cuts for the unemployed, sick, disabled and disabled. This has touched on broadly anchored values in Norway. The analysis seems to be that the richest are motivated by more, while the poorest are motivated by less. The polls say theirs. The agreement in Stortinget has made the impression of the proposals somewhat better. The worst cuts of the weakest groups are fixed, and the richest pay a little bit more in taxes. It's nice how these things relate. However, we in the Labour Party are in agreement with the parliamentary leader in Right, Trond Helleland, who, at the time of the conciliation, found that the main actions are firm, i.e. those that have the most, get more. The deal goes 27 pst. of the tax on wealth of the country’s 0,1 pst. Richest. Did anyone say "people most"? This is a distribution profile that completely breaks down with the key characteristics of what we can call the Norwegian model. Had these figures been anonymised and presented to an international panel, we would have guessed that it was Norway we talked about. It is strange that the government is unable to account well for its largest single effort in the budget. Someone might call it a little faint. It is not capable of probating that the proposed grips promote growth, as it claims. On the contrary, they themselves write in the Ministry of Finance’s tax proposal: ‘There is no basis for budgeting with dynamic effects in 2015 of the proposals for tax changes. ‘If you go to the country’s leading experts in the field, Professor Jarle Møen of the NHH says that most economists do not believe that taxes on wealth tax give any particular growth, it is very difficult to quantify the effect of cuts in wealth tax, and then you are left with some theoretical reasoning. Last week we received a report from the OECD, where they write that economic inequality has a negative impact on economic growth, while redistributive policies can contribute to growth. So the government's arrangement is in conflict with the technical recommendations. The government's proposals for tax arrangements lack anchoring both in the people and in research, and appear to be purely ideologically justified. The government has proposed that legitimacy and trust in the tax system be at stake. It's serious. The government's meeting with the voters has from the outside of this harvest appeared to be quite comical when one tries to explain tax cuts without professional anchoring or explains to an unadulterated mother that it is for her own good that she gets large cuts in income. Funny, but not funny. Funny it was only when the government and the conciliators were going to play the answer about who was going to be Aunt Pose. Entertainment attitude is the name of the debut album of a well-known Norwegian music group. Unfortunately, it is not possible to transfer this title to the debut budget to the Right and the Advance Party. I don't know what was the plan of the government, but for the voters and commentators in the press, this government has appeared more like a government that maintains, than a government with attitudes. The Labour Party has made choices to maintain the tax level from 2013. This implies that the Workers’ Party proposes for 2015 to restore the overall level of taxation imposed by the government of Stoltenberg II for eight years. The allegation made by Minister of Finance Jensen that taxes increased each year with the Workers' Party in government is demonstrably wrong. There is no phase at the perfect tax level, but it is heavy that 350,000 new jobs were created – two out of three outside the public sector – and thousands of enterprises in the period 2005–2013, all with unchanged tax levels. And it was a progressive tax system. In the World Bank’s Ease of Doing Business index, Norway is the sixth best country to operate in. Despite the overall level of taxation in the upper reaches of OECD countries, we have set up the tax system in a way that contributes to efficiency and value creation. With the previous tax reform in 1992, we increased the tax base and reduced the rates. The company tax rates were reduced from more than 50 pst. to 28 pst. The result was a success. Many have changed since 1992. At that time we had one of the lowest corporate taxes in the OECD, today we're above average. Capital is moving faster between countries, and the tax rates in Norway are considerably higher than in the countries around us. This gives Norwegian companies strong motivation to move investment out of the country. The government of Stoltenberg II took the first steps to meet these challenges. In the business growth package, Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnnsen announced in May 2013 that the corporate tax rate would be reduced and that it would be taken to close tax gaps and limit unwanted adjustments. The Scheel Committee recommends further reduction of corporation tax and, in order to avoid major adjustments, the rate of income tax is required to follow. The bill could be almost 100 billion. kr. If we are to be able to maintain today's welfare level in Norway, the income of the country must be about the same level as it is today. Then we're talking about a big tax conversion of the Norwegian tax system. A review of the tax system must also help to close gaps in the tax system currently used by multinational companies. These companies exploit differences in tax rates between countries by raising the proportion of the group in high tax countries to finance other parts of the group, while equity is concentrated in low tax countries. This is often called aggressive tax planning. Others call it deliberately to avoid taxes. Regardless of the label, there is a very uneven competition between local enterprises and local businesses on the one hand and multinational companies on the other. For those who claim to have the woes of Norwegian businesses and well as one of their strongest priorities, this should be a major factor. Work on country-by-country reporting cannot wait three more years, as the government and Jensen say. The Workers’ Party does not propose to reintroduce the inheritance tax according to the model in force in 2013 and to compensate for this, the Workers’ Party proposes that the property tax be increased so that the total tax on wealth is approximately as in 2013. By reducing the tax advantage of secondary housing and commercial property, we are now following up previous steps to reduce the difference in taxation between different property items, in line with the recommendation of an overall economic professional environment. This will make it less lucrative than in the past to invest in secondary housing and commercial property rather than to invest in, for example, a machine park. This will also contribute to a more effective tax system. The reduced tax advantage of secondary housing as an investment item can also contribute to less speculation and help mitigate the growth of housing prices and thus also facilitate the entry barrier to the housing market for young people. The harvest has been marked by taxes: tax bonuses to the richest, exciting reports from Scheel and the OECD, and not least the visit to Thomas Piketty last week. The debate on taxation and the tax system will also mark the Norwegian political debate in the coming year, and the Labour Party welcomes a debate on what you want from a new tax system, not what you do not want. Will not, is not a good starting point for wide settlements. It's my Christmas wish that we can now calm down and think a little bit about what's best for countries and people, not just the best for our own party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e717	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e720	For the right, it is important to work towards a lower level of taxation in order to make Norway more robust to meet the challenges of the future, not least during a transition period, where the growth momentum of the oil sector is expected to weaken in the future. The response of the working party is tax incentives and tax increases, which increase the burden on business. Is it not, then, that the Workers' Party is really a brake on the changes we have to make in order to ensure the welfare of the future? Is it not that the tax package for the Workers' Party for 2015 takes us in the wrong direction instead of solving the long-term challenges for our country?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e727	On the contrary, the tax and tax arrangements for the Workers' Party take us in the right direction, and we were also last confirmed in the OECD report that I mentioned in my post. It clearly states that the theories with which the Right has agreed in all years, i.e. that tax relief to the richest, should be applied to all of us and contribute to more investment and jobs, do not work. On the contrary, what turns out to be effective is targeted action against them with little, and low-wage groups. The OECD clearly states that it is what contributes to the growth and development of a society. I think it's strange that the Right and Government don't take over this new research, but so they stick to thoughts and rhetoric that were introduced early in the 1980s by Reagan and Thatcher.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e734	We can record that the Workers' Party has now received a new economic mentor, a French social economist and author, Thomas Piketty. One of his radical proposals is a global progressive wealth tax, otherwise at the same rates as those already applied in France. However, he also proposes 80 p.m. income tax and is one of the few to defend the high income tax of 75 pst. As you have in France, a country that is also struggling with both its economy and its state finances. But the most eye-catching thing is that he suggests that Norway should give away the State pension fund abroad for good purpose because we do not need the oil wealth. Then my question becomes to the representative Wickholm: does he support Piketty's considerations and proposals about progressive income tax and that SPU should be converted into a charity fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e741	It's not just the Workers' Party that has let themselves be inspired and excited by Thomas Piketty. It also has large parts of Norway and large parts of the world. I think that Piketty's thoughts and ideas touch something fundamental in most people, namely that those who have a lot of things are going to help those who have little from their beginnings in life get the same opportunities and opportunities. When the representative asks whether the Labour Party supports progressive taxation, the answer is: Of course, the Labour Party has always done so, and it is because the Labour Party believes that it is a right and good economic policy, in line with reports from the OECD, and in line with Piketty, that more money is being taken from those who earn the most and are using it specifically to improve the situation for those who have the least in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e750	There was a lot in the article on property taxes – and praise, I would almost say, from the representative Wickholm of all the good effects of the property tax. It is a little in contrast to what many in the Workers' Party themselves have said has been challenges with the wealth tax, whether they are called Trond Giske, Lisbeth Berg-Hansen – or Jonas Gahr Støre, for that matter. Since the representative mentioned Piketty, it was in the panel debate after Piketty, where Gahr Støre also participated, that he said they see clear challenges with both inheritance tax and property tax. So now, after Wickholm's posts, I'm a little bit in doubt if there are any challenges at all, but then I ask, what are the challenges of the Workers' Party actually seeing with the wealth tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e757	As I also said in my post, there is no perfect tax system. Of course, in my private economy, I also find the tax imposed on me challenging. It would have been considerably easier to live my life if that treasure had been gone. But in order to contribute to society, I think it's age-old with that kind of tax. Similarly, it's going to be like this for businesses, for owners, that, ideally, for them, it can feel challenging. But if we're to have a society where we create opportunities for everyone, everyone also has to contribute to a wide-ranging splinter layer. This means finding the right device, the right balance, which allows it to be found.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e765	The Labour Party has doubts about the tax level from 2004 and thinks it's perfect. It has been our governing body for the Workers' Party's thinking in fiscal policy for ten years. It prevents sensible tax practices, because reasonable tax measures must then be compensated for by either tax austerity or tax relief in order for the perfect level to continue to be perfect. It's a strange form of conservatism. Another strange form of conservatism is that only those who are members of a main association, who are to receive tax deductions from the trade union quota, are organized according to the Labour Party. The Labour Party proposes that 120 000 organised workers who are currently being deducted should lose that deduction until the next year and thus receive a tax tightening of NOK 1000. Is it this Workers' Party that calls a social and fair tax system – more to the big ones and less to the little ones?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e772	That a party like the Left doesn't see that you can keep a level, but make changes within the level, I think it's strange. The left has always distinguished itself by having a good social profile. They have recently also been concerned with the climate and the environment and talked a lot about what many call green tax exchange, an exchange I perceive as moving tax revenue from part of the system into another. If Rotevatn then will be on the level or not, I don't know, but making changes, adjustments, in the system to get a good model, I don't think Rotevatn really seems so strange, and not so little conservative either. That is precisely what has happened to a large extent during the reign of the Workers' Party, under Stoltenberg. When it comes to the last question from Rotevatern, I would like to get back to it in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e779	Before the representative Wickholm leaves his place...
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e782	... the representative would like to address the proposals that the Labour Party is promoting in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e787	That's what the president would suggest. The representative of Truls Wickholm has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e794	The level and arrangement of the tax system has again become an important issue in the political debate. That's good and absolutely necessary. Unfortunately, a debate on taxes and taxes becomes more a debate on distribution than on value creation. The left-hand side has its conviction that one krone in increased taxes provides one krone for well-being — and on the other hand that tax relief reduces public welfare. Experience both internationally and nationally shows that this is not correct, as tax incentives will stimulate increased activity, which in turn generate increased revenue for distribution over the public budget. The economy is not static, and the dynamic effects mean something to our future welfare level. Stable tax revenue is essential in order to finance public welfare goods and income assurance schemes. There are far more important contributions to redistribution than the contribution of taxes to the balancing of income. The tax system shall be used to finance common resources, to ensure social mobility, to achieve efficient resource use and to provide good conditions for Norwegian business and social value creation. Norwegian private ownership must be strengthened – not discriminated against. It is worth working, saving and investing. In the budgetary agreement, the government has received the agreement of the Christian People's Party and the Left to the main lines of proposals for the 2015 government budget. Long and hard negotiations were, but the result is good, and it ensures good and proper priorities for meeting the challenges of the economy. The 2014 tax and tax system, together with the 2015 proposal, shows a new direction for Norway by providing net relief of 12,5 billion in two budgets. kr. Growth-promoting tax reliefs along with increased investment in infrastructure, education and research are important priorities for ensuring future well-being. During the summer and autumn, we also got a French dimension into the Norwegian tax debate, and the red-green hearts beat hot for increased progressive taxation of work – 80 pst. income tax is the proposal – but not least the progressive taxation of capital, for the rich have to pay more. This is really nothing new, and as long as the tailors have a political agenda, the emperor is still as naked. For what is the OECD recommending Norway? These include: reduced tax rates, streamlining and red tape the public sector, investing in knowledge and research and stimulating productivity and labour participation. So these are the technical recommendations. The fact that we in Norway have over 600 000 people of pre-employment age who are wholly or partly outside the ordinary labour market is quite unique in an international context. Increased progressive taxation of labour and capital does not help anyone in this group to enter the labour market, rather on the contrary, nor will it be possible to distribute in the long term. For the Progress Party, it is important to provide tax relief to broad groups of the population, as these changes have the greatest impact on the Norwegian economy. The budget agreement between the four parties on the civil side provides significant relief in the minimum deduction for employees and pensioners, almost 30,000 fewer will pay top taxes by increasing the entry point, and 90 000 people will drop property taxes in 2015 by reducing the rate and increasing the bottom line. This is a much larger number than those with the very largest wealth, which has become unearthed much of the gap this fall. For most people, the level of taxes is as important as the level of taxation, and the budget agreement contains a historically large reduction in car-related taxes, in fact more than 2 billion. kr including better depreciation rules for the transport industry. The re-registration fee will be significantly reduced, and from 2015 it will cost a maximum of NOK 5 900 to re-register a car, while the corresponding amount in 2013 was almost NOK 20 000. In addition, fuel taxes are reduced, and the changes in the one-off tax reward new and environmentally friendly technologies, which are made more accessible to people across the country. Fee reductions make everyday life both simpler and cheaper, while at the same time we use a lot of carrots and little whip to achieve important goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e813	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e816	There's a lot you could ask the Progress Party and the representative Limi about: the tax level, what most people really are left with, the relief in the wallet, etc., but we've been on these issues before. Instead, I would like to say that the Workers' Party has noticed the representative Limi as a calm and mindful man with a good approach to tax reform. The OECD has ranked corporate tax as the most harmful to Norwegian business. Good framework conditions are the most important for enterprises — alongside a choice-making tax system, through various Prime Ministers and Finance Ministers. Does the representative Limi agree that the most important thing is to get something done about corporate taxes, while at the same time being able to maintain a level of taxation that allows us to ensure that most people are well-being in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e823	I would like to thank Mr Wickholm for his excellent report. To the question of corporate tax and whether reductions in it are the most important, the answer is that unfortunately, everyday life is not so simple, this is more complex. If you talk to small and medium-sized enterprises in Norway, they will be, and are, quite clear that the property tax is an unreasonable tax on Norwegian ownership. The problems for small and medium-sized enterprises are that they have property taxes and taxes that have to be paid independently of the company's earnings, but corporate tax is only a challenge when you go with profits. There is a need to think widely and do several things to ensure a good framework for business in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e832	We have heard a lot of new talk from the Progress Party in the last year, and in the state budget for this year it was among other things. the fact that you were going to start charging tolls smarter. Last year it was smarter to abolish tolls, this year it's smarter collection. When the Progress Party was established, it was a party for a strong reduction in taxes and taxes, now it is for indexation of the petrol price, which is the big winner – it was not indexed. These are clearly new slogans. But I have a question for Limi about something I think is very surprising that the Progress Party joins in: Why is the Progress Party voting today for all the country's commuters to have a tax tightening of 110 million. Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e839	As the representative, Schlagsvold Vedum, is well aware, the Progress Party is still in favour of a strong reduction in taxes and public intervention – let there be no doubt about it. Then the situation is – as you also know – that we are in government cooperation with the Right. The government is in a minority in Stortinget. We need to secure a majority in the Biggest, and we do that by making good agreements with the Christian People's Party and the Left. In that case, it will not always be the case that the primary policy of the Progress Party is being implemented in the negotiations. Then you have to give and take, and then you have to get a better result than what would be the option with the Center Party, the Working Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e845	In the Scheel Committee's report, there are many different approaches. One of the grips is that you want to remove the commuting deduction. At the same time, the agreement here in Stortinget, which reduced the commuting deduction and introduced the commuting with a tax sharpness of 110 million. kr. What does the Progress Party think about the proposal to remove the commuting deduction, which is in the Scheel Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e850	It becomes very narrow to hang in one deduction or one charge. What we look at in the 2015 budget agreement is, of course, the whole thing, and there are significant tax reductions, not least on car charges, which will also benefit the commuters. So there are many advantages there for those who have long travel distances between home and work, and not least for those who depend on using the car. The Scheel Committee will probably have a lot of time to discuss, but it is clear that they point out some challenges in the Norwegian economy and make some suggestions on how to set up the tax system, and then there is a lot in the proposals that are politically very difficult to accept.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e857	The total amount of taxes on property and capital is higher in many countries than in Norway, but both the representative Limi and other representatives of the Progress Party and the Right insist on referring to the property tax as being extraordinary. It argues that the tax on wealth must be reduced or eliminated in such a way as to be competitive internationally. But this is how all countries have their tax systems, and most of the taxes and taxes we have in Norway can be called "serious". Great gains are also found in the tax system we have in Norway, compared to many other countries. Can the representative Limi mention some examples of strange taxes and taxes that he thinks it is okay that Norway has, and where it is good that Norway has a higher level of taxes and taxes than other countries, or should we always be at the bottom of the tax competition and win over other countries in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e864	Norway is probably not among those countries that have the lowest level of taxation in Europe or in the world, nor do I think we are able to win an international tax competition. The challenge today is that the economy and capital are global. This means that we must have framework conditions in Norway that are somewhat similar to the framework conditions in the countries with which our businesses and our businesses are going to compete. Then, if we are to promote private ownership, we must invest in innovation and development of businesses in Norway, yes, we must remove the property tax, which is a discrimination against Norwegian ownership. It is the clear feedback that comes from those affected.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e869	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e872	This autumn has been marked by a lot of tax and tax debate – first the government's draft budget, then the conciliation, then we have got the Scheel Committee, and last week Thomas Piketty was here. So at least there is no lack of commitment around an important policy area. For the Christian People's Party, when we develop our tax policy, we want to facilitate value creation. We want to facilitate employment, for volunteering, and to contribute, through the tax system, to important objectives relating to distribution, the environment and public health. We have taken this into account in our alternative budget, and also in the negotiations we have conducted with the Right, the Left and the Progressive Party. To take a few words about the wealth tax: Many, including in the opposition, agree that this is a problematic tax. It gives – whether you like it or not – some form of criminal tax to Norwegian owners, compared to non-resident owners. Everybody doesn't know that is so very positive in the long term. At the same time, I think we should understand how this works out in the population when this is combined with a number of other interventions in budgetary policy. That I would say is certainly a lesson that some people are taking with them after this fall. Now we have a deal where the changes in the property tax are somewhat limited compared to what the government proposed. And since it's about property, I want to say that now over the year there's another tax on property, at least when you look beyond the primary dwelling. In addition, if you take a fairly solid growth in property taxes at municipal level, there is no doubt that property is now taxed much more heavily than just a few years ago. This is how you follow the advice that a co-ordinated professional economic environment comes with. I am also pleased that the budget agreement has given a greener direction on the tax and tax side too, ranging from increased CO2 tax on domestic quota-based aviation to the fact that we now seem to be able to get a market for biofuels. All of this, in addition to what some call carrots – enhanced efforts towards the collective part of our transport system – contributes to this shift. And that there is a need for that, we see more or less daily. When it comes to volunteering, I'm very happy that we've increased the gift allowance over two years, so it's now NOK 20,000. This gives money to volunteering, money that is not made available through government or municipal projects, but that is actually money volunteering itself can take advantage of what they want to prioritise. We also increase the limit on when voluntary organisations have to pay the employer’s fee, to NOK 50000 per employee and SEK 0.5 million. kr per organisation. It's also a boost for volunteering. And we are also increasing – which I think is important in a distribution context – the tax deduction that disability pensioners can still deduct from the three coming years, in terms of the transitional arrangements for disability pensioners. What is the difference in tax policy in this room? Of course, there is disagreement, but if you look at this in the big picture and – I kept saying – see that it had been in another country that you discussed the level of taxes and taxes, the knitting is not very far in Norwegian context. We're pretty much in agreement about the system, a little bit of disagreement about the level. It was supposed to be lacking, and we are also looking forward to new debates, not least about the Scheel Committee's report.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e892	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e895	When we have a matter of taxes and taxes, it's kind of interesting to stay a little bit by how we get them in. Norwegian municipalities are among the best in the world to collect taxes. Then there is a process – and there is a bit of political weight behind it, as I have the impression – given that the tax collection is to be transferred to the state and at the same time is to a large extent centralised in relation to today. I've got the impression that the Christian People's Party is against this, that the Left is also against it, and we on the red-green side are crystal clear now as before. Can the Seven give a guarantee that he stops this process, and preferably as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e902	I can give the guarantee that we will go into that matter very carefully. The representative, Mr Hagebakken, has the right to have scepticism associated with transferring the responsibility from the municipality to the state for several reasons that have been discussed in the debate. We tolerate a hearing, we tolerate hearing the arguments both for and against, and I expect them to come in rich monn. Then we're going to make a final decision in the Christian People's Party when we've had the hearing and possibly got a position from the government. But the starting point is as it has been that it should be at municipal level. Then I want to say that the previous government was a quite powerful driver to centralize many tax offices. It happened in a rich monn in the state part of the tax offices, even under the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e909	I know that there are processes going on in the way that it will be interesting to see how will develop. So until this year's new arrival, the plastic bag charge. «This is not an environmental tax, but a tax intended only as income to the State.» This is what Jaana Røine, who is the director of Green Point Norway, says about the new arrival of the year. Today it is recovered and collected over 80 pst. of the plastic packaging, and that is good. The plastic packaging industry has made a tax to support the operators involved in recycling. That agreement, that arrangement, is now in danger, and then this becomes very negative environmental. I also react to the fact that the state only violates an agreement one here has with the industry. Finally, my question: does Syversen think it is right to impose a charge on manufacturers, which means large extra costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e923	When it comes to whether it's a real newcomer or not, it was as far as I know, which was promoted by the Brateli government in its time, so it's probably not quite new. It was probably withdrawn in the 1970s once, because it didn't fall completely into good soil. I expect that when the Ministry of Finance now has time to set the framework for such a charge, we will ensure that it takes care of environmental considerations, because it is also such that the production of part of the plastic bags is not environmentally friendly, rather on the contrary. This is to ensure that the plastic bags that are produced environmentally friendly are also subject to a limited fee, so that they are not unnecessarily loaded. Whether or not to place it on the manufacturer, I think we should now take the time to assess, so that it becomes a manageable and good system.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e929	First, I want to say that the Christian People's Party got more good things in the voluntary sector – that's good. I think it's a little bad that you couldn't, for example. continuing a system that some non-governmental organisations could have offices at the County, but I hope there will be new rounds where you can be a little more plentiful than you could get in this round. I'm going to draw up in line an area where the Advance Party got more penetration than the Christian People's Party. That's how it is in these line changes. The Christian People's Party's alternative budget says that you want to increase taxes on both tobacco and alcohol, and you're very sceptical about increased tax-free quotas. I fully agree with that. But when we look at the agreement, nothing has been done about the tax-free quotas, and the taxes on alcohol and tobacco were kept completely untouched. I now give the Seven an opportunity to say how the Christian People's Party can manage to sharpen the alcohol policy profile of today's regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e936	I am particularly pleased that the representative, Mr Vedum, has found some points of light in this budget. I'm glad. Thank you for being generous on behalf of the volunteer. And then at least we got funds for 4H, if that's what the representative of Battle Violence Vedum thought about, which means they won't get hurt out of this. If they have to have offices with the County, for me, they will be somewhat subordinate if you maintain the good cooperation that has been between the offices and, for example, between them. this organisation. As far as tobacco and alcohol are concerned, in order to take it, I am pleased that the Central Party and the Christian People's Party jointly presented a proposal that now assesses how the tax-free system should actually work. I'm very open to more cooperation patterns in that particular matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e943	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e946	I notice that it's getting closer to Christmas, we have kind of a little lower shoulders than we had here before this fall. I want to start by talking about one of the successes in Norway. One of the successes in Norway is that we have had a policy that has led us to use the whole country. When we are on committee trips and other trips, we see that there is activity, housing and vitality from Finnmark in the north to Agder in the south. But it hasn't come of itself. We have used a number of different instruments, on which there is now a political debate this autumn. One is a law, the concession law, which has been used very actively to ensure that the raw materials, the natural resources, would create economic activity throughout the country. They actually came right after the Union resolution, with Castberg, to ensure a return to the hydropower, to secure the forest resources, to secure the land resources, and it has made us have a local and national ownership. It has given many jobs, and it has been a success. The same idea came with the oil and gas business in the 1970s. The public was going to go heavily in order to ensure that one would create value creation around the country, and it has been a great success for our country. Unfortunately, today’s government is attacking that way of thinking with full force, and it will change Norway over time if the changes proposed there are implemented. The second instrument we have used, perhaps more recently, to create activity across the country is that we have used the budget to stimulate activity around, through Innovation Norway, through county municipal tools, through direct business-oriented instruments. There, too, we see in this year's budget a systematic cut in all these small items that are to ensure that we get total activity from fishing to forestry to industry. We think it's very unwise. Although this will not mean much in the one year term, we believe that cutting in such instruments will change Norway over time. The third area we have actively used to ensure activity throughout our country is tax policy. We have done so with a differentiated employer’s fee, which has undergone a radical change in ours, as they give in to the EU’s requirements, which will result in a tax and tax tightening for large parts of District Norway. We see that this year's tax system has given priority to property taxes such as the one great relief, which has a very distorted geographical distribution and benefits a few areas of the country, while not giving priority to lower or better depreciation rates, higher fishing reductions and measures for industry. It imposes higher fees on the industry, which has increased the amount of commuting, i.e. a systematic tax approach that does not facilitate a more balanced development across the country. There is a very uneven distribution in the tax profile, and it was also seen in the comparison between the government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left, for example. You make it more expensive to fly to North Norway. There's no reason at all. It has nothing to do with environmental policies. There's only one way to get more into taxes and taxes to the state. If you're busy with planes as a problem, you should take the foreign route, not the domestic flight, because it's part of our alternative network. There are not all places in Norway you can have a railway, some places you have to fly. Another element we have also used — in addition to legislation, budget, tax and tax — is the location of state jobs. Oslo is that city in Norway — naturally, because it is our capital — that gets the most stimulus through the location of state jobs. That's about. 44 000 State jobs in Oslo. In addition, the hospitals are coming. It is natural to have it in a capital function, but in one country a balanced development of state jobs and public activities throughout the country should be achieved. Last year we had a big debate on the Directorate for Economic Management. Unfortunately, the left was tipped over during the debate, and 140 State jobs were created, for example. in Vadsø and Hamar and some other cities, which were then centralized to other places, but to areas where you had very strong growth power from before. In this year's budget, there has been a lot of turmoil around the Central Statistical Bureau, the SSB, and what is happening there, with a centralization between Kongsvinger and Oslo. I'm afraid that the location you saw at Kongswinger at the end of the 1970s is now seeing a gradual slowdown. In addition, we look at it in the tax office, that you want to state the tax offices. What you combine with the government of tax offices is that you want to centralize them as well. It is not a decentralisation reform that you want to move tax functions out, but you want to locate them in fewer places. The sum of the arrests, if you look at the law, budget, tax and tax and location of jobs, only goes in one direction. It'll create bigger press problems, and it won't do Oslo any better. It will make Oslo needier, and it will make more communities around the country not get the growth they could have had if you had an active policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e965	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e968	In 2009, they introduced red-green with the Senterpartiet in the tip tax on biodiesel. One of the consequences was that Norway’s only biodiesel factory, Uniol in Fredrikstad, left all its employees. At the same time, Norske Skog's plan to build a brand new biodiesel plant on Follum was a powerful shot for the bow. Now the government removes the tax, and the Norwegian Forest Association stated in the budget agreement that in relatively few years we have had a number of industrial declines in the forest industry in Norway, and that with the state budget and cooperation agreement we have now put the main elements in place to trigger billions of investments in the production of biofuels based on Norwegian forest resources. Does the Centre Party agree with the cooperation parties and the Norwegian Forest Association that the State budget and the cooperation agreement represent a shift in the pace of the Norwegian forestry industry, forest work places and competences in an important Norwegian industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e975	The most important thing for the Norwegian forest industry and forestry industry in recent years is that the krone price has fallen. That's the second most important thing. For all of us who have exported timber in the last year, it has been very good – and we should have waited a little longer, because now the krone price has fallen even more, and that is very important for Norwegian forest industry. In fact, the government’s forestry policy has been somewhat disappointing in many areas. Less attention has been paid to innovation and the development of new products; only a little, symbolically, has been given to forest roads – almost just symbolic policies. But in the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left there was one very important act, which Heidi Nordby Lunde is now lifting up. It is that there is a tax exemption for biodiesel, and it was a proposal that we too were in favour of in our proposal, because now there are EU sustainability criteria in place, which allow a good industry based on the sustainable development of biodiesel. We think it's a good grip, and we support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e984	The center party is very busy taking the whole country into service, and they're very busy with the districts. Priority should be given to promoting economic development and growth and investment through policy decisions and the use of public funds. From that point of view, and if this really means a lot to the Central Party, my question to the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum is why, in reality, we are going to continue and exacerbate a wealth tax profile that will actually help to move even more capital from the districts and into investment in central struts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e989	All taxes have an expense, there's no doubt about it. When we were going to discuss where to make relief and where to continue the level of taxation, we thought we should look at what has given the most effect. Our assessment is that improving the depreciation legislation for industry is the most effective way to avoid implementing some of the sharper charges that the government has chosen to promote, as well as strengthening the measures it has taken in relation to fisheries, agriculture and forestry. We are actively using fiscal policy, but we have more targeted tax credits that hit industry and the transport industry directly, while the Progress Party has chosen a more passive form, a wealth tax that we do not think will give the same effect as a more active tax policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e994	I fully agree with Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum that there is no limit to how good this agreement is in many ways. I want to ask how the Central Party basically thinks about property taxes, because I perceive that the Christian People's Party and the Center Party have had a similar starting point that working capital should not be taxed, but that what is taken out on private hands should be taxed. Then, before the last election, the Central Party had an output where you wanted to increase the bottom subtraction to 2.5 million. kr, while you did not announce that you would increase the bets at the same time. In this budget, the deduction is increased, but the rate is also increased so strongly that there is more money in the treasury than before. What is the primary starting point for the Center Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1003	First of all, it's important to be a little bit precise, because we're not increasing the rate compared to what we put in the government budget last year. We're just going to go on with the rate we put forward in the 2013 state budget. What we're doing in our alternative budget this year is raising the bottom line to 1.5 million. kr. Then our historical starting point has been how we can protect the working capital in the tax on wealth. It has been the same starting point as the Christian People's Party. Practical implementation has proved difficult, but it has been our starting point. This year we have been looking at different parts of Norwegian industry and Norwegian value creation. Then we have thought that it has been a more accurate tool to improve depreciation rates, reduce fees and make more concrete actions that take value creation directly. It's been a priority we've done, which we think will create more values than a general relief in property taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1011	In their alternative state budget, the central party claims to provide tax relief for self-employed workers. If we go a little closer to the budget in the sumanes, the Center Party is its definition of self-employed farmers and fishermen – dot. It's these groups that get easier in the Center Party's budget, not the other self-employed. In this respect, I have some questions for the Central Party about good suggestions to help self-employed people who are proposed by the Left, and as the Center Party finds it wise to vote against. So my first question is: why is the Center Party opposed to introducing a minimum deduction to self-employed, as suggested by the Left, and as farmers and fishermen already have? Secondly, why is the Central Party opposed to improving the tax regime for self-pension savings for self-employed workers?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1016	It's a classic exercise from Sveinung Rotevatn at any time trying to narrow down the central party's policies. We live very well with that. With regard to the self-employed policy in the budget, there are several important measures. One of the areas we think are very important in the future is the growth we see in online commerce. There are many entrepreneurs all over the country who are betting on the growth industry this is. That's why what the Left is doing is completely incomprehensible to us. They're just adding a new rate of 350 kroner, but they don't have any idea what kind of impact this is on the crop industry. We see what revolution we are facing in the digital world or in the media, we are going to face the same revolution in trade. To weaken the conditions of competition for Norwegian operators, Norwegian self-employed, as opposed to non-residents, is completely incomprehensible to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1023	The President believes to remember that the representative did not make any proposals during his statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1026	That's true. It was a little bad time. Then I'll take up the suggestions now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1031	The representative, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, has taken up the proposals he referred to. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1036	The left's overriding objective in fiscal policy is a green tax shift where the tax system is actively used to stimulate work, jobs, development, investment and ownership in Norwegian enterprises and to promote environmentally friendly behaviour. In concrete terms, it means lower taxes on labour, ownership and businesses and tax incentives to make environmentally friendly choices and increase environmental taxes. The left’s main priorities in the 2015 tax package are precisely a green tax shift and the active use of the system to stimulate this. Together, we propose a tax and tax scheme that would result in a net tax tightening of about 3.7 billion. kr booked and SEK 1,5 billion. kr incurred in relation to the government's proposal. At the same time, it represents a significant tax relief compared to 2014, which stimulates net environmental choices, business start-ups and investments in Norwegian jobs and Norwegian enterprises. For the Left, it's not decisive whether the tax level is the same as last year and year before that and that and that, it's about the arrangements on the tax system. Tax and tax incentives may be sensible if they contribute to achieving important objectives, and tax incentives may be just as sensible if they are designed in such a way as to encourage increased value creation and a more environmentally friendly future. Taxes and charges are important policy instruments for managing behaviour that, in the view of the Left, has at least been too small in recent years. In the budget agreement with the Right and the Progress Party for next year, the Left gets an impact on a green tax shift that in total is the same as the previous government was able to do in eight years. It is an interesting observation that all the former government parties now propose a greener tax shift for 2015 than they in collaboration and in several ways managed to gather in eight years. It's an open question who it was that prevented who in government in the same period. The only thing that is certain is that the same parties each year voted against proposals from the Left that they voted for this year and that are adopted. Another interesting observation is the distance between the former government parties when it relates to the tax regime. Right, all of the red-green states are certain that we can sharpen the total tax level with a place between 10 and 20 billion. kr, but the devices crack in all directions – much more than what she did between the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Government Party before we start negotiations. A third observation is that the parties that we thought we had to wait to make changes to the tax system pending the Scheel selection are the parties that have met the selection's recommendations with at least enthusiasm. In its budget option, the left suggests a range of easy taxes on Norwegian business and on self-employed and small businesses. The left is particularly concerned about using the tax system actively for three things when it concerns business taxation: Point 1: to stimulate research and development in general and R & D in the environment and climate in particular. For this reason, we propose several measures that the target area provides tax relief if it has an environmental and climate impact. Point 2: to contribute through the tax system to making more risk capital available to entrepreneurs of start-up and capital-drying enterprises. That is why we propose, among other things. an arrangement with the Capital FUND, which provides for tax deductions for investors who invest and remain in a start-up enterprise for at least three years. Point 3: more equalising self-employed persons with other employees in the tax system. Therefore, we propose to introduce a minimum deduction for the trader for expenses compensation, net of actual costs, of NOK 75 000. It also has a significant simplification effect. And we suggested improving the tax regime for saving for our own pensions, as it is in practice too many other employees. Unfortunately, this is the area where the left is quite alone, so far. There is reason to hope that in these areas too there will be a significant improvement in the coming years, and the hardships we make for social arrangements for self-employed people together with the bourgeois parties, and so far as the Senter party, is a sign that things can be moving. A few words about the property tax: It is worth noting that the Scheel Committee proposes a model of property tax that is astonishingly similar to the one proposed by the Left in its draft budget for 2015. I have also noticed with interest that those who strongly criticised the Left after our draft budget was presented have now carried out a certain turnaround and claim that this might make sense anyway. I would like to admit that there is still a large difference between the primary tax and tax systems of the Left and that which gets multiples of the votes of the Left. However, the left has had a greater impact on changes in the tax system in the next year's budget than we have had in all the years since 2005, and a much greater impact than we would have had by cooperating with the other parties in this room when we look at their proposals for the 2015 tax package. Finally, I take up the Left's suggestions in the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1070	The representative of Sveinung Rotevatn has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1075	In 2006, the Stoltenberg government had a comprehensive review of car charges, which resulted in a conversion of car charges in favour of more environmentally friendly cars and fuels. This has led to a reduction in average CO2 emissions from the car fleet of about 30 pst. since then. The Solberg government has also announced such a review in the revised next year. It is natural to expect that this review will also benefit from environmentally friendly cars and fuels. But that is the opposite we have seen in the proposal of the two government parties in the draft budget for next year. Then I would like to ask the representative what expectations the Left and the representative have for this comprehensive review of the car charges – whether they expect the same thing from us, namely that it should be in favour of environmentally friendly cars and fuels, or whether it goes in the same direction as the budget proposal from the same parties did.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1085	Firstly, it is worth noting that the budget we are now adopting will for the first time lead to a decline in emissions from the transport sector. Representatives from the red-green parties should also be reminded, reflecting a little on what it says about the policy that was previously pursued. The left has great expectations for the review we are about to have of car and fuel charges with the other bourgeois parties. Here, too, there's a slightly divided view between the parts of what's the good device. The left is for us to use a combination of whip and carrot in this way. In the draft budget we are now adopting, we have chosen essentially to use carrots: make it considerably more profitable for people who want to run plug-in hybrids, to do so, to remove the tax on biodiesel and together to make a transformation towards green cartilage, which very, very many are happy, not least all those who live in parts of the country where public transport is not a good alternative. It's a good first step, but we have great expectations for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1092	I will just briefly draw the attention of the representative to the fact that the emissions from the transport sector fell by about 250000 tonnes in 2012 – just as has been said. But that's not what I was going to say. I was simply going to congratulate the Left with a very good impact on hybrid cars. It is a good environmental victory that benefits the environment and Norwegian drivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1099	We'll be grateful for those congratulations, and then I'll be able to replicate that among the parts of the SV budget I have the sense of, environmental policy is definitely one of the things that it might be worth taking a closer look at. It's not a secret that some of the parts in this room are some of the things about when this is the case. For the Left, we are pleased with the environmental impact we have received in the discussions with the government parties and the Christian People's Party. And then I think both myself and the representative Serigstad Valen are some of the reasons why the review we are about to have of the car policy and the fuel charges should lead to even more profitability in running environmentally friendly cars. It's an important part of the work to bring down climate change in Norway. What appeared at the summit in South America last week and on weekends, suggests that now is the time for us to take even greater action nationally to get an ambitious agreement in Paris next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1105	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1108	Let me first record the SV's suggestions in the setting. In 1927, U.S. Supreme Judge Oliver Wendell Holmes wrote the following in a judgment: «It is true, as indicated in the last quoted case, that every expression of money for an act is a discount to the extent of the payment required, but that which in its immediacy is a discouraging may be part of an invitation when seen in its organic connection with the whole. Taxes are what we pay for civilized society.» Here Holmes touches on a dimension at the tax debate that is often absent both in Norwegian public and here in Stortinget. First, taxes and taxes are not just for the purpose of providing income to the state and municipalities, and, second, taxes and taxes are part of a whole that makes Norway a better country to live in than most other countries. When one listens to the Right and Advance Party in this debate and in other discussions on tax, one should think that tax was almost a theft and something one should at best reluctantly accept. Their own view of the limited legitimacy of the tax itself is used as an argument to reduce taxes as much as possible. The idea is that money earned exclusively is own money, and that any taxation involves a confiscation that can only be regarded as a necessary evil. So when an industrialist, for example, reaches having large profits in its business, it is considered by the right to be totally unreasonable that these are values on which particular taxes are to be taxed. He has created the values, as they say. Is that right? Who is creating the values in Norway? Does not both business and private people serve well on infrastructure, on roads and on rail, which allows goods to be transported to the market? Does not a good welfare offer, good schools, and kindergartens allow families to live where values are created? Is not the community management of the natural resources used a prerequisite for production? And does not Norwegian wage and tax levels contribute to the return of efficient, competent labour, so that more values are created and more wealth spread across the whole population? Norway can never compete only at pay level. Even without the oil, we would be a country with a pay level well above other countries that produce many of the same goods we live on. What makes us competitive is innovation, quality and productivity. The prerequisites for this are public research effort, welfare schemes, quality at all stages. It doesn't give us tax cuts. We know this, because it's tried. The U.S. once had a tax system that functioned somewhat redistributive. It was the end of the 1980s. The idea that increasing wealth to the richest would benefit everyone else because more jobs would be "created" – I say created in quotes because everyone really knows that there are supply chains that create values, not shareholders – was tested to the full. Then we can ask the even American family if they think the real decline in wages over the last decades has been something to boast about. The families who have experienced a real wage cut may not agree. The leaders of the United States have experienced a multiple of their income, a much greater increase than the actual growth in profits in businesses. The only thing that happened when taxes on the highest wealth and income went down was that a few people became much richer. Therefore, SV wants a beneficial tax system that benefits most people and creates a more fair society. Our tax line combines the cut in income tax for most people with environmental taxes. That's how we contribute to a more environmentally friendly society, without getting a biased social profile. We suggest that those who have the most should contribute more. That's why we're proposing a new step 3 in the top tax on revenues over 1.5 million. kr. We propose to make the wealth tax progressive, so that with the large wealth they pay a higher rate, and we propose to end what is actually subsidising the financial industry, and that government itself in the national budget calls under-taxation, by introducing VAT on financial services. Last week, a report from the OECD showed how economic differences are generating lower growth in the economy. While the government parties have married an out-of-date idea that tax cuts to the richest benefit us all, more and more evidence emerges that smaller differences provide better communities. And while government parties use the need to finance welfare in the future as an argument for cutting welfare systems, the solution is really right in front of them: smaller differences will give us better advice on the welfare of the future. We can make ourselves less dependent on oil and at the same time create a society where more people feel better. But something tells me that it wasn't the welfare of the future that stood out for the sake of taking when the government decided to cut dramatically the taxes of those who have the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1128	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1133	In the alternative budget of the SV, they propose to introduce VAT for financial services and this is justified by the fact that the exemption for VAT for the financial sector makes financial services particularly profitable. Then I wonder if SV has forgotten who is paying the VAT, because the VAT is a consumer charge that companies and individual companies charge on behalf of the country. When I sell services via my individual company Dreampilot – yes, I regret that name, but I was young and did not know better – I add VAT when I invoice, but I can deduct the costs I have myself. VAT is paid in full by the final customer. So SV has proposed to do all the financial services 25 pst. More expensive for ordinary people, from paying the groceries a buyer at the store, to paying the bill via the online bank. I wonder, of course, why?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1140	Following the financial crisis, the Financial Crisis Committee proposed a better taxation of the financial industry. It's because a bad regulated financial industry leads to a crooked economy, and it can lead us into new crises. They developed several models for it, and there are good models that the Ministry of Finance worked a lot with during the red-green government period, but that are also mentioned in this year's government budget. It also means that businesses will be treated more fairly in Norway. It will provide new business-to-business write-offs of an estimated 2 billion. kr, e.g. A similar system has been put in place in Denmark and the Danish central bank reports that the cost has not been borne by private customers. However, it is usually used as an argument from the right to impose this charge. I find that strange, all the time the government itself in the national budget writes that they assume that such a charge would not lead to increased costs for individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1145	My question is probably in the same street as the previous speaker, but it is still not quite clear to me, because when SV proposed this fee in its alternative budget, it was mentioned in the bill and only a sketch for a fee extension. Substantial investigative work on such a proposal remains before it may be sent to the hearing. I think – with respect to reporting – that SV could have waited a little while to put this into its budget, because as I can interpret it, it is actually the way – that Heidi Nordby Lunde was also involved – that this fee will be burdensome for borrowers and not least for young people to establish themselves. So the question has to be, why is it so urgent for SV to introduce this fee?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1152	This is not a matter of urgency, it is a question of what some of the wisest minds in the country recommend us to do to avoid a new financial crisis and achieve a fairer tax on business in Norway. There is no reason for the financial industry to have much better framework conditions than all the enterprises in this country that create material values. This is a model with which the Ministry of Finance worked in the previous period, and which would certainly be ready to be introduced if SV was in government now. So I don't have a bad conscience for that. There is a significant investigation work – as the representative Holthe said – also related to charges that the government has suddenly decided to introduce, for example: the plastic bag charge.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1159	I found it interesting that both the SV and the Labour Party have begun to show so much to the OECD. They have many interesting recommendations for Norway, including: on sickness policy. But that's not what I was going to ask. I found it interesting that SV is the party that proposes the lowest rate of corporate tax in 2015, and that they are the only ones that – as far as I understand – suggest easily in the taxation of exchange. I also found it interesting that SV now proposes to increase environmental taxes significantly. In short, there are quite a number of interesting steps in SV's tax and tax arrangements, and the Left agrees with some of them. My question is whether SV has a fundamental view of how much of a salary income you should be able to pay in taxes. In SV's alternative budget, the highest effective marginal tax rate is close to 60 pst. It's over 10 pst. more than any other party suggests. Does SV think that it is in principle right that more than half of the wages should be taxed? What kind of consequences does SV think it will have for wage formation and not least for Norwegian competitiveness, all the time experience shows that increasing taxes are often followed by demands for increased wages to compensate for lower purchasing power?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1168	Today it is that the dividend tax is a result of the tax rates on ordinary income, so when we propose that it and corporation tax should decrease slightly, the dividend tax follows. But I didn't want to celebrate too soon. We in SV simply did not want to find a new way of taxing dividends in three weeks before the Scheel Committee came up with its setting. They have a glittering suggestion on how to ensure that dividends tax follows the level of income tax, which we in SV are going to support, and then we'll see if the bourgeois parties are going to do it as well. We have the highest effective marginal income tax in our draft budget, at 60 pst. It's not very loud. It is lower than both Denmark and Sweden until recently. And it doesn't give a tax of more than half of the income, as the representative Rotevatn said, it gives an average tax of over 40 pst. I think that's quite reasonable if you make more than 1.5 million. kr. We'd rather spend the money on cutting the taxes to people most, so that we could, for example, has room to introduce new environmental taxes, which make Norway greener.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1175	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1178	Today’s debate confirms that the government’s main political project is to continue the exceptional growth period in Norway over the last few years. One of the consequences of this growth has been the climate minister in Lima to discuss, namely that we are at full speed towards four degrees of global warming. Another consequence is in Southern Europe, where an entire generation loses hope for a better future because of inflated, failed, loan-funded growth. The question is how long it is wise policy to increase consumption, use more oil money and increase debt to increase growth. The Greens believe that this is an increasingly poor economic policy which is becoming less and less forward-looking. Last week many, to whom several references have been made, heard the lecture by French economist Thomas Piketty in the University's auditorium. One of his points, which has been little up in the debate, is that economic growth is generally decreasing in rich countries. More and more economists believe that growth will continue to fall, and there is an estimate of growth of 1.2 pst. or less in the West towards 2100. Population growth is falling, and productivity growth is decreasing because more and more people are going to work in professions that cannot be automated much more, and because tasks that can be robotized have already become so. The probability is increasing that economic growth will continue to slow down, and traditional economic thinking means that this is dangerous. The question is what we do if declining growth is an increasingly necessary result, both of earth's resource and climate challenges and of technological and demographic developments. For the Green Party, this means that we must look for a new economic policy, while the government is doing the opposite. They still have higher economic growth for the world’s richest country as their biggest political project, and they increase the focus on the old growth recipe – almost on autopilot. Last week, Norway’s Bank reduced its interest rate to 1.25 pst. to stimulate growth. In 2009, the same central bank itself pointed out that long-term low interest rates created the financial crisis, with the terrible consequences it has had in Europe, in the United States and elsewhere. The cooperation parties are voting today to cut the percentage of the property tax. This is likely to give rise to increased differences, so much so that even the NHO believes that this is not what business needs first and foremost. In our alternative budget, the Green Party has proposed to increase the tax base to 1.5 million. kr, to protect small businesses and entrepreneurs from the tax burden, while increasing the rate of the highest wealth – not to destroy the rich, but to put money in circulation. The Green Party will lower the taxes on those with the lowest incomes more than the government, but we will introduce a new step 3 in the top tax on income over 1 million. kr. This leads to a person with an income of 2 million. NOK with our order gets 6 pst. more in tax. Our payroll and property taxes are about 9 billion. kr extra for reintroduction of business and green development. It doesn't ruin people's economy, but it will dampen growth, and it will dampen unnecessaryly high management wages. Everyone agrees that the polluter should pay. The cooperation parties have good, green tax changes, and we in the Green Party support fossil gas taxes, electricity taxes and plastic bags, we support lower hydrogen car charges, etc. Green taxes are not withdrawing money, it is moving resources and consumption in the green direction. The Green Party is the only ones who make this polluter-pays principle a horizontal principle in the state budget, not just on individual measures. In our arrangement, we propose a consumer-changing environmental tax of approx. 25 B.C.E. kr. Is that a fear-provoking number? Well, what you can do with that kind of fees is shown, among other things. through a total of 10 billion coming from a maximum moderate increase in the seating charge. Similar measures are possible in many other areas. Both Norway and the world must have an economy that is balanced with life and that is balanced with itself. The idea that economic growth is the only thing that guarantees prosperity needs to be replaced by an economy that ensures development, quality of life and justice, with fewer of the problems that are becoming increasingly evident being embedded in a still one-sided growth economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1202	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1205	The tax system proposed by the government and adopted today by the majority of the Grand Duchy will make the richest in Norway even richer. 27 pst. of the tax cuts proposed by the Right and the Advance Party, they shall be reduced to less than 0,1 pst. richest in the country. As the representative said in his statement, we want to see a Norway with growing inequality. I want to challenge the Green Party representative on how he believes these increased inequalities will affect the national climate resilience Norway needs. We cannot care that only 0.1 pst., i.e. the richest in Norway, should contribute – we need everyone to be motivated to participate. I'm not sure if those who have the least will be motivated to make good climate choices when they get even less. Does the Environment Party of the Greens believe that increasing inequalities in Norway will make the major national climate change threat more difficult?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1212	The Greens essentially agree with Deng Xiaoping that it doesn't make anyone rich, and that someone gets rich first, and we have nothing against people making money, just what they make money on, being green. But the Green Party is also quite clear that increasing inequalities in every society is 'encouraging' people's willingness to make an effort, and we have no faith that it gives significant benefits in any area to introduce people who have a lot of things in the past. It's not the same thing as wanting to kick the rich or take money from people, but it's taking the elementary fact seriously that people want a reasonable premiere of effort, not a premiere that is randomly driven by someone having a lot of money from before or accidentally sitting in professions that throw a lot of themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1217	The Greens share their ambitions on behalf of the environment and our planet and the need for action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. But we leave enough layers on a part of the tool. And I'm a little surprised that the representative Hansson is taking so much time to argue against growth in itself. Green growth should be the goal, not zero growth, or even negative growth. I also mean that in our own neighbourhood, for example. The EU, over the last twenty years, has seen a good example of a significant reduction in climate change, while at the same time increasing growth. One has gained more out of poverty and wealth for more people. My question to the representative Hansson is: when it comes to those countries in Europe that have unfortunately in recent years been ‘lucky’ in reducing growth, even zero growth and negative growth, Greece, Spain and Italy, how does the representative Hansson think that the conditions are in order to pursue ambitious climate and environmental policies in such countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1224	Firstly, the representative Rotevatn has the right to the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Free Alliance. He is also right that in the short term there are significant challenges to challenge growth policy. But growth policy is about climate. It's also about something even more fundamental: the Earth's resource situation. And there is still no doubt that the economic growth that we are seeing on earth today leads to a treatment of the resources that we have, which are not sustainable in the long term. The question that remains then is that the solution to the problems of growth is still growing, and there is a question that, not least, the Left must work more to answer. What the Greens are doing is to ask the question much more clearly and not answer in the first place. We believe that the Left too will have to share in thinking about the long-term consequences of traditional economic growth for Earth's resources, and we believe that the Left and the Greens have a lot to talk about there.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1231	I very much agree with Mr Hansson's last reply to the representative, Mr Rotevatn. SV largely shares the views of Rasmus Hansson and the Greens in much of the tax policy. It was a good post. I just want to invite you to a little bit of nuance around concepts, for example. the above-mentioned OECD report showed us last week that a society with smaller differences and a more redistributive tax system also leads to more growth. And that's a growth that's not necessarily of evil. Does the representative Hansson not agree that that is what the growth is used for, which is the point here? Because, with the tax changes proposed by the Greens, the Greens, too, the population is getting more and more routed, just as SV also suggests. It will give rise to growth, but the question has to be what is the surplus on: whether there is more polluting consumption, or whether there is more climate-friendly life and more climate action.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1238	For the Green Party, the most fundamental question is what are the prerequisites for creating an economic growth of the kind we are now seeing. The Green Party stresses that growth can be interpreted in so many ways. We are not a party that wants to slow down quality development, knowledge development and other progress in society, on the contrary, but we see that the way in which the growth models are today structured, eats of the earth's life base in a way that cannot continue. We agree that the use of the result of the growth is also an important question. There is probably the Green Party and SV part of the difference, because we are far more offensive in stimulating a new private business than what I perceive the environmental party is SV. But I think, as I said, first of all that is the question of the prerequisites for growth that is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1245	The President will remember the time of speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1248	Thank you for the good answer from the representative Hansson. Speaking of sustainability, we heard 'O holy night' blade from the Water Hall, and that was a good sign! I once again agree with much of what the representative Hansson says, but I do not know that SV does not have a business-positive tax, tax and climate policy. We are e.g. the only party proposing to reduce corporation tax by 1 percentage point, against removing a number of tax advantages for the oil industry, to shift taxation from the mainland and green industries and to the oil industry. My question to the representative Hansson is: can we here and now agree to form an alliance in the future negotiations of the Scheel Committee, where many of the other parties will be most concerned about participating in tax races in Europe, but where we can ally and work for a fairer, more redistributive and, not least, climate-friendly tax system?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1257	The Green Party has been involved in Norwegian policy and in Stortinget, with a very clear intention of raising and challenging both sides of the block policy, so of course we are very suspicious of all the proposals for direct alliances with individual parties here in Stortinget. But the mandate of the Alliance of Representatives Snorre Serigstad Valen was so broad that I believe I can join it in confidence that other parties too will be able to join such a mandate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1262	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1266	The Norwegian economy is changing. Lower demand from the oil industry will require Norwegian enterprises and Norwegian labour force to target other sectors. In such a situation, the tax system must also stimulate transitions and contribute to enhancing the growth capacity of the economy. Business activities in Norway are to be profitable and more attractive to work. There is therefore a need for growth-enhancing tax relief. The budget agreement reduced taxes by 5.2 billion. kr from 2014 to 2015. This is less than the government suggested, but still considerable relief. Since the government took over in the autumn of 2013, the level of taxation has been reduced by 12.5 billion. kr. The taxes on wealth make it less profitable to save and weaken private Norwegian ownership. In addition, different valuations of property contribute to distorting the investment from business to real estate. It reduces the total yield. Following the budgetary agreement, the rate of property tax is reduced to 0,85 pst. and the bottom deduction increased to 1,2 million. kr. At the same time, the valuation discount for secondary and commercial dwellings is reduced to 30 pst. Thus, over two years we have reduced the adverse effects of property taxes. About 90 000 people with ordinary, small assets are exempt from property taxes in 2015, and in the further work on the property tax, the government will also assess a model of exemptions for so-called working capital, in line with the budgetary agreement. The government's draft budget stressed that broad groups of the population should benefit from tax relief. I am pleased that the budgetary agreement has also provided room for lower taxes for large groups of the population. 99 pst. the taxpayers receive relief or unchanged tax. About 28 000 fewer will pay top taxes, and significant reductions in minimum deductions are made to both employees and old-age pensioners. The average relief for employees is NOK 1 200, while the average age pensioners receive NOK 1 600 less tax. The greatest relief in percent of gross income goes to the tenth of the population with the lowest gross income. The transitional arrangements for non-pensioners have been improved in the budgetary agreement, so as to facilitate the transition to new rules for persons with particularly large debts. In the State budget, the government proposed significant improvements in car charges. The re-registration fee has been proposed to be reduced by 35 p.m. and other vehicle and fuel charges were also proposed. The budget agreement gives us greater relief in car charges than the government proposed. This is because we agreed to reduce the charges on environmentally friendly vehicles and fuels. I am pleased that there will be a tax relief that reduces costs both for normal drivers and for the transport industry, while facilitating more environmentally friendly choices. In the budget agreement, we also agreed that the Left and Christian People's Party would participate in the further review of vehicle and fuel charges, and that the parties would jointly submit a agreed agreement on future taxes. In addition, the government will continue to work for tax relief and for the tax system to contribute to more efficient resource use, improve conditions for Norwegian business and stimulate more environmentally friendly choices. In the follow-up to the Scheel Committee, we will work in line with the Sundvollen Declaration to achieve a more competitive tax system that can promote profitable investments and provide high value creation. In particular, this is becoming important as a result of lower demand from the oil industry in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1285	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1288	On 21 May last year, Siv Jensen was disappointed that the Right came with a promise of a roof of 25 billion. kr in tax relief per year. Jensen said to ANB: ‘I record that the level of taxation is no longer so important to the Right. It's an honest thing. But for us it is important». Jensen argues in the case that the removal of the property tax would eat up the entire tax haven within the 25 billion. Furthermore, she said that in a government in which the Progress Party is involved, the reduction in the level of taxes and charges for the wider population should be important. The fact is that the budget is running out, for Jensen is not near the roof of the Right, which the Labour Party is pleased with. 2.6 million. Norwegians with income less than NOK 400000, receive NOK 1000 or less in tax reliefs. Those with income of more than 2 million. kr gets on average a tax bill of 38 400 kroner. Can the State Council of Jensen answer whether she believes that some reason why the Progress Party is now experiencing its worst measurements since the 1990s is that her voters feel led behind the light?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1300	The greatest difference in political Norway currently exists between those who believe that tax reductions have a positive impact on the economy and those who believe that tax and tax cuts are correct. All three red-green parties have significantly increased the tax and tax burden in relation to the level we have today, and of course there will have consequences – there will have consequences for business's ability to reinvest and to create new jobs. I believe that in the time we are now entering, which is going to require the conversion of a whole Norwegian business life, we need to be able to focus on what framework conditions we are going to have that ensure the competitiveness of our business. Then we must also be willing to look at the tax system, and therefore it is an important ambition for this government to reduce the overall level of taxation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1307	The Minister of Finance was in his contribution to the relief of the car charges. At the same time, we have heard for a while that the government is working on a comprehensive review of the car charges. Many people are waiting for what it will result, and perhaps we got an answer to that in the proposal from the government parties in the budget, where the main proposal was tax relief on fossil fuels. But many have expectations about something else, about a continuation of what the Stoltenberg government started up with, namely a transformation in favour of more environmentally friendly cars and fuels. And then I have to ask, as I also asked the Left, maybe more directly: what is the objective of this whole review? Is it getting an environmentally friendly car park, the use of more environmentally friendly cars and fuel?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1312	Let me first say that I believe that both what the government put forward in the budget, and the measures adopted as a result of the budgetary agreement, are good relief in car charges. Overall, the costs are significantly reduced, and this allows ordinary families to renew their cars. Of course, a new car park in Norway has a positive impact on emissions. When we are now working on a comprehensive review of the car charges, it is both about looking at the environmental side and about another important thing, namely safety. Children's families run around with the girlfriend they have, and then it is of course important to make it possible to drive safe cars at an affordable price. So I think it's the balance of this that's going to be important in the work further on now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1319	The Minister of Finance was concerned with the framework conditions of Norwegian companies in so far. We also sometimes talk about the framework conditions for international companies. A problem that is increasingly prominent is what can be called tax shopping from international companies. We have examples of many heavy companies that have significant turnover in Norway, but it's hard to see if they're adding any tax dollars in our country at all. The Scheel selection is among others: inside of this. My question is: will the government, in so far as it is independent of the Scheel Committee, put in forces to ensure, as far as we can nationally, that tax gaps which help those who are re-entering economic activity in this country will also be part of and share a little of the tax burden?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1326	In the context of the 2014 supplementary proposal, the government also promoted proposals to close some tax gaps, which we believe would be a step forward in the future tax system. In addition, there are now quite offensive international efforts to establish good agreements that also contribute to greater transparency, transparency and, to a lesser extent, international tax planning. That's good. We signed an agreement in Berlin no later than a few weeks ago. That work, I believe, is important that we continue to keep up the pressure. I think it's important to constantly look at how we can improve that type of regulation internationally, as well as that of course we also work on how to connect our own tax system for competitive reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1333	Earlier today, we noticed that the Progress Party has produced a lot of novelty in tax policy. The lot was once known to be too heavily reduced in taxes and taxes. Now the batch is known for having as its big victory to fight by not indexing the petrol price. I have a question for the Minister of Taxation: can she explain when the last time a fee was imposed that had only one purpose – to increase the proceeds to the Treasury?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1340	I have not heard the same nodule as the representative of the Battle of Vedum has in his head. The truth is that the Progress Party is now working as a former employee to reduce the overall tax and tax burden in Norway, and that is why this government has had an impact on the 12.5 billion relief. kr since we joined. It has consequences, positively, both for Norwegian business and for ordinary people, and it's a work this government is going to continue with, just because there's a limit to how hard you can tax both industries and ordinary people without having consequences – and because we adapt in a different direction. Now I think we all have to be able to raise our eyes. We go into another time, where we have to convert our economy. We're not going back to a normal, if you like, situation after the financial crisis. Now we're going to a new normal. Competitiveness will then be absolutely crucial, and I hope that the Storting is willing to contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1347	One of the government's suggestions that there was some noise around was the proposal to increase the free import limit to 500 kroner. After the budgetary agreement, which was in line with the Left's proposal for a budget, simply an increase of 350 kroner, it has been quite silent. Of course, the left is happy that we've had an impact on our primary proposal, but it contained two more elements. The first was an evaluation of the impact of increasing from DKK 200 to DKK 350 before possibly increasing further. The second was to set up a network solution under the Tax Directorate, so that consumers can carry out customs duties and the payment of VAT themselves and avoid paying extra 140 kroner in fees through e.g.: The post. Are these two proposals that the Minister of Finance will also look at more closely?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1357	First of all, I am pleased that there is a majority in the UK to do something about the limit of duty-free imports, a little lower than what was the government's original proposal. However, the government has proposed several things that contribute to simplifying customs treatment, among other things. that the limit goes from NOK 1000 to NOK 3000, which of course will also be a very positive contribution, a simplification contribution, and hopefully also benefits consumers in the further work. I'm not a stranger to assess the perceptions and views of different parties in the Storting if it would be relevant for the government to make further changes to this, but we have to consider that against the coming state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1364	It is well known that in its alternative state budget, SV proposes greater tax cuts to people than the Progress Party can afford. A common response from representatives from the Progress Party has recently been that SV increases environmental taxes so much that most people go to zero. It's wrong, so I'll take the Minister of Finance with me on a small example. Let's take a completely average family of two adults who each make between 400,000 and 450,000 kroner. They have debts on the house, they have two children, they have two cars since they live somewhere without adequate collective coverage, and they have an average consumption of electricity, fuel and air travel. This is a family that, with the SV's total tax and tax arrangements, goes NOK 3800 plus. If you double your car usage, they're still going to add 2,000 kroner. How does the Minister of Finance feel to be Minister of Finance of the Progress Party when even SV suggests greater relief in taxes and taxes to people most?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1373	Let me first say that of all the roles SV has tried to take in the policy over the last few years, the role of the tax lighter is that of the least-dresser. This is also seen in the SV's alternative state budget. It's a total tightening of taxes and taxes on billions of dollars. It is possible that SV has managed to arrive at an average family that gets better out of their structure, but the truth is that, in sum, there is a sharp deterioration in the framework conditions for Norwegian business and an increase in tax pressure overall. I disagree. I believe that we need to reduce tax and tax burdens in Norway, and therefore it is important to have a discussion, which we will now have in the future, on how to set up our tax system with a view to strengthening the competitiveness of our business life at a time of significant change, and then I believe that we need to look at how we should do it, so that we can also take care of other considerations that are widely agreed in terms of the tax system.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1380	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1383	Norway is a country with small differences and great opportunities, and the Alternative State Budget of the Workers Party reflects this ambition. We give priority to using the Community's resources in the community. Our 2015 tax package will help to balance differences, to finance our welfare services and to get a green shift in tax policy. The starting point when the Solberg government took over was good. Norway was in a unique position in Europe with low unemployment, high employment, small differences, good growth and productivity and order in the economy. At the same time, the Stoltenberg government was in the process of transforming Norwegian society. We will continue this transition in next year's budget. Investment in the oil and gas sector is reduced and the number of jobs in the sector is reduced. The Workers' Party has prioritised the use of Community funds to stimulate the creation of new jobs and the development of new technologies. Next year, we will give priority to a particular effort for increased growth and employment in industries that have good prospects for success in the meeting with international competition, through their own commitment to what we call growth across the country. We would like, among other things: spend 200 million. kr more on the eco-innovation scheme, 250 mill. kr more for a separate accelerator program, 300 mill. more on regional development funds, support for marine value creation programmes and forest value creation measures, to mention something. In the conversion of Norway, we also need to spend more money on education for those who are going to build the country. Skills in both higher and vocational education are needed. The working party will use more of the Community funds for, inter alia: increased apprenticeship grants, training equipment, trade union scholarship schemes, hospitation and training of teachers, to mention something. A good community economy is a fundamental prerequisite for a society in which well-being benefits everyone. The municipalities face several challenges in the future. Strong population growth, more elderly and caring, growing urban areas, communities in need of new growth impulses, immigration and climate change are some of the challenges that Norwegian society needs to face in a good way. The Labour Party believes that the government’s financing of the municipal sector for 2015 does not reflect these challenges. With government arrangements, many municipalities now have to cut into services such as school, care for the elderly and health. The Labour Party believes that instead the situation requires increased efforts in municipal services. We will use the Community's resources to ensure well-being and to spend more money on municipalities, so that they can make greater efforts in these areas. The Progress Party and the Right have not been able to address these challenges that we face in the future, in its budget, despite the fact that the Minister of Finance points out in interviews just the need for conversion because oil revenues will decline, and that there is a need for reconversion and organisation of new jobs because we have an increasing number of older people, because we need to convert to the low-carbon society, and because we need to create the jobs of the future. The government's response is tax-free for those who have the largest assets and the largest income. The small differences in Norwegian society are increasing. Higher unemployment is forecast in the future, and the need for an active country in the transition is increasing. The Labour Party is opposed to the proposals for tax relief. We will maintain the level of taxation for 2013 and use these funds to finance our common well-being and the challenges we face in the future. In its alternative state budget, the Labour Party raises a tax profile that underpins important budget spending initiatives, jobs, fair distribution, climate, environment and public health. In practice, the government’s proposal to increase the threshold for free online commerce will act as a subsidisation for foreign online shops. This has caused strong reactions from the Norwegian industry and trade unions. Work has stated: ‘This is the most hostile proposal I can remember.’ [[...]] 10 000 jobs may be lost in trade in goods. The working party opposes this change. In 2006, the Stoltenberg government carried out a comprehensive review of the car charges resulting in a conversion of the charges in favour of more environmentally friendly cars and fuels. This has led to a reduction of the average CO2 emissions from the car fleet by about 30 pst. since 2006. The Solberg government has also announced a comprehensive review of car charges, with the result coming in the revised national budget next year. It is then natural to expect a further conversion of the charges in favour of environmentally friendly cars and fuels. But when we see what the government did in its budget proposal, that is, the opposite – reduced fossil fuel taxes, on caravans and on snowmobiles, and chose, for example, not to provide tax reliefs on rechargeable hybrid cars – ask many what is the goal of this government’s overall review, and what we can expect comes out of it: additional tax reliefs on fossil fuels or a continuation of the restructuring of the Stoltenberg government started in favour of environmentally friendly cars and fuels. The government's announced comprehensive review of car taxes and green tax changes was therefore not a clue in the budget – on the contrary. It was improved through the negotiations with the Christian People's Party and the Left, but there is a need here for greater efforts to reach the low-carbon society and get a green shift. The government destroyed here, according to the NAF, the good trend we were in with a reduction in emissions through the good car tax development we were in the process of. The transport sector accounts for more than 30 pst. of the emissions. We have to do something about this. We're going to get to the low-emission society. The Workers' Party will therefore give additional priority to public transport in the major cities by 1 billion. kr more than the government and 400 million. kr more for railway maintenance, to mention something. In addition, in order to achieve the objective of the low-carbon society, it is essential to increase incentives for the purchase and use of more environmentally friendly vehicles and fuels. We therefore continue the conversion of the car charges we were in the process of stimulating a more environmentally friendly car park, among other things. with tax relief for rechargeable hybrid cars, which could make these cars up to NOK 100000 cheaper than today. At the same time, we will increase charges that provide a particularly positive climate effect. In order to avoid excessive overall tax burden, the Workers' Party joins the government's reduction in the re-registration fee for the car. This is equal to 600 million. kr and could contribute to a faster replacement of the car park. However, we do not support the government’s tax relief for motorcycles, snowmobiles, caravans, heavier vehicles and fossil fuels. The working party has a recognisable profile with five main bets. We will build the country by focusing on education, growth across the country, healthier people – a public health boost – measures to reach the low-carbon society and ensure the well-being of our budget. This is done by investing in solutions and actions for the future and looking at sectors in the context.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1425	The President will draw attention to the suspension of the meeting at the latest by 9 a.m. 13.45, and it's up to the members of the committee whether or not you want to finish your case at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1428	The government proposes a number of tax reliefs. Most of these have been maintained under the agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party. It is still the case that the tax policy used presupposes that values must be created before they can be allocated. This is also apparent from the cooperation agreement between the four civil parties. And it's once again in its place to remember that tax relief is not something you give, but the government demands a little less from people, so that there's something more that can be kept by the individual and then managed. This is the case when freedom of choice and belief in the individual are present. Work should pay off, and there should be good morale in being able to save, invest and thus create something – according to their own assumptions. The tax breaks are relatively modest. Someone will mean it, someone else is of a different opinion. I myself receive many enquiries, especially from representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises. These are impatient and are particularly likely to see a faster reduction in property taxes. We do not come from the fact that the taxes on wealth occupy the owners of the less privately owned enterprises – among other things. because that tax inhibits investment in Norwegian enterprises. It is also desirable to refer to the cancellation of the inheritance fee, which is among other things. made the generational shifts of enterprises much easier and enabled the continuation of family holdings. Fortunately, most political parties have accepted this tax change. With the taxes on wealth, it seems to be more complicated. In fact, there is a relatively broad civil agreement to do something about this, and in the long term, hopefully, further reductions in the tax on wealth, especially on so-called working capital will occur. As you know, this issue should be addressed in more detail. Although the tax reductions are relatively modest, even the small steps will gradually become slightly larger. The government has proposed and implemented as known several simplifications and cost savings. The so-called red tape and efficiency reform is one of the examples of this. Int. 5 S for 2014-2015 points to the notified changes in the organisation of tax management, also mentioned in the proposition. It is clear from this that the tariff and levy rate must be re-established as a limit rate. This means, among other things: the tax law assumes responsibility for the establishment and collection of excise duties, the liability for the document fee from the Swedish Cartel Office and the tax collection from the municipal tax collectors. The last question shall be referred to the hearing before a decision is taken. In the context of the consultation of the Financial Committee, the Association of Norway’s Kemner and Kommuneokonomers has significant counter-representations in the matter. This should, of course, be taken seriously and assessed in the future. However, the Ministry of Finance has determined that a transfer of the tax collection to the Tax Authority can reduce the total resource use by around 400–500 annual works. The fact that fewer and more uniform recoverers could lead to better professional environments, increased non-discrimination and increased legal certainty appears to be evident. As former long-standing chairman of the Bergen compromise department and even in the Swedish Tax Committee in the municipality of Bergen, I will allow myself to join in this. However, there is reason to stress that there is still to be a good regional distribution of jobs, and hopefully the reorganisation can also lead to some new state jobs being moved out of the capital, in good Victor Norman spirit – I would say. Moreover, there is a lot of evidence that taxes and debate about this will be central in the coming years, too. It's enough to remember the Scheel Committee and everything that's suggested by equals and differences. We're probably going to approach all the questions that have been dealt with, with an open mind. However, there is reason to point out that the Right and Government positions in fiscal policy are governed by Government Party programmes and those laid down in the Government Platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1447	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1461	No one has asked for the floor. Then Stortinget cancels his meeting for Christmas, and the meeting is set again at 0 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox The President thanks for the cooperation. The meeting was cancelled at 9.00 p.m. 13.34. ----- The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1477	The size is ready to resume the negotiations from this morning, but there is some formality. An application for sick leave has been lodged with the representative of Mazyar Keshvari from the Group of the Progressive Alliance, starting at 3 p.m. on 15 December. 16 and so on. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The Vara representative Peter N. Myhre is proposed to meet during the period of leave. – It is also considered to be adopted. Peter N. Myhre is present and will take the seat. Storting continues its negotiations in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1507	When we got the report from the National Audit Office, one might get the impression that one could smuggle almost anything into the country without being discovered. Fortunately, the image is somewhat more nuanced. We will examine the Riksrevision report on the investigation of the Customs and Fee Permit border controls. Some of the members of the committee and consultants were on a study visit to Svinesund, so that we could get more involved in the work of the department. We also received a copy of the letter that the department had sent to the National Audit Office. The customs tariff has as its concept of activity: «We protect society and secure the income of the State.» Their main tasks are to combat illegal imports and exports of goods and to charge taxes and customs to finance the welfare community, including the fight against economic crime. The National Audit Board has many comments on the department, and the Committee has commented on some of them in its opinion. I want to say that the committee is reassembling the setting. The first big comment from the Riksrevision is: ‘Failure of prioritising the detection of serious infringements in order to combat organised crime’ The Court of Auditors says that the fight against smuggling should be strengthened. Furthermore, they say that the investigation shows that the work on detecting serious offences is to a lesser extent followed up by the Ministry of Finance of the Directorate of Customs and Fees. The size has once underlined the importance of countering organised crime by reducing the distribution of drugs. We note that the Customs and Charges Directorate writes about border controls that their main objective is to counter organised crime — in particular drug crime. Furthermore, they write that if they had not prioritised this, the customs service would have carried out far more checks on small-scale smuggling of alcohol and tobacco, where a very high number of seizures and high percentages of hits are almost certain. I also note that in recent years the customs service has made a strong contribution to intelligence and analysis, that they have established management parameters for serious events and developed AOT score score indicators that reward the large seizures and that this is now being implemented. This is where the Riksrevision and customs offices disagree. I believe that, based on the information given to the Committee, the department prioritises its efforts to identify serious events. The National Audit Office says that there are low figures when it comes to seizures of several types of drugs and currencies. Although the number of seizures has increased from 2007 to 2013, the Riksrevision writes: ‘Optimising the estimated amount of drugs in circulation is low in the border control of the customs and tax haven.’ This is where the National Auditor's Office will see the Innst. 207 S for 2012–2013 from the Health and Welfare Committee, which expresses their satisfaction that the government will ensure targeted work to detect and limit organised drug crime and increase the amount of substances seized on the Norwegian market. With the information obtained from customs, we have been compared for the Nordic countries when it comes to the most common types of drugs. These figures show that compared with Sweden, Denmark and Finland, the Norwegian results are in some good, especially if one takes into account the size of the country and the pattern of use, and in particular that Sweden and Denmark are not only producer countries, as Norway is, but also transit countries for smuggling to Norway. The number for which the option is referenced. I believe that it is important that we always focus on better results and that work must have a high priority in the future. New challenges such as: is a major lack of new substances identified, and, not least, the Internet as a marketplace requires a much stronger focus. The National Audit Office has an own chapter on staffing and writes that crews are slightly adapted to traffic loads on weekends and holidays. This asked me when we were visiting Svinesund. This is also commented on in the letter that I have referred to earlier. The customs tariff tells us that, in the interests of control, it is not right to distribute resources more strongly towards the increased traffic in weekends and holidays. We in the Committee understand that it is the customs office who knows when serious smuggling is expected and agrees with the fact that it is right to base control. It may not be desirable to insert a lot of people into weekends and holidays, if the analyses of the scene do not suggest it. We must then think of a demand for efficiency, which must be balanced against control. The National Audit Office reports that the department lacks an overview of several unmanned border crossing points. We in the Committee believe that the unmanned border crossings must be expanded with video surveillance, as one has done when it comes to the pilot project in the region east. The study also shows that there are weaknesses in tools such as ICT, control facilities, scanners and channels for tips. The Committee agrees that the government must provide resources so that technical equipment and tips can contribute to better border controls. The government and the finance minister have said that they see the need for stronger and better border control. That is good, and the committee has, in a comment, asked the government to follow up the report. I would like to add that the first time I visited Svinesund was in June. It was actually as a representative of the Nordic Council. We should look at frontier barriers. We took for ourselves the border control on the expedition. We got a demonstration of an effective system. One could, for example: stop only on one side of the border and got checked both for Norway and for Sweden at the one stop. And here the computer systems worked very well, which we have to say is an extra plus. Some of us in the committee went to Svinesund in November to look at border controls. We got a demonstration of how they work with drug dogs. We received a review of the station's work. We got to see how they work on car scanning, and how they interpret the scanning images. By doing so, I present the position of the Supervisory and Constituent Committee on the examination by the National Audit Board of the Customs and Fee Setaten.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1559	The Committee has conscientiously examined the report of the National Audit Office, and we have also been on an inspection at the customs office of Swinesund to find out how the department organises its work and what tools it has to carry out its mission. On this basis, the Committee has drawn its conclusions, which in this regard only partially coincide with the conclusions of the Riksaudition. The National Audit Office study is both thorough and relevant, and in many areas both the Customs Service, the National Audit Office and the Committee agree that there are weaknesses in border control, but not in all areas. The usual thing is that the Committee largely shares the comments and recommendations of the National Audit Office, but I think it is a great strength for the authority of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee that we make our own, independent and conscientious assessments, and we have done so in this matter. We note that the customs service does not share the Riksrevision's view that serious infringements are not a high priority. Based on the information provided to the Committee, in particular with regard to the information we received on the inspection, our assessment is that the resource priority in customs is satisfactory. We note that the Riksrevision believes that seizures for several types of currency and drugs are low, which is quite correct when compared to the total amount in circulation in Norway. At the same time, we note that the 2013 seizures were higher than for our neighbouring Nordic countries in terms of the vast majority of drugs. We note the Riksrevision's remark that the crew is slightly adapted to increased traffic during weekends and holidays, but we also note that the customs department believes that there are purely control reasons on the basis of which the manning was carried out throughout the year. The Committee also agrees that there must be control professional considerations leading to the manning situation and the watch plan. On weekends and holidays, there are mostly ordinary people crossing the borders, not trailers with a lot of goods. In my opinion, it is a good thing in itself that cross-border crossings go as smoothly as possible for ordinary people. Total control of ordinary citizens is not possible and definitely not desirable. We also note that the study shows that there are weaknesses in ICT, physical control facilities at some border crossings, the use of mobile scanners and tip channels. The Committee agrees that these are weaknesses and we ask for them to be followed up. In sum, I have the impression that this report is useful for the Customs and Fee Directorate in many areas, although the Directorate does not agree with all of the Riksrevision's comments. Otherwise, it may be mentioned that this is a unanimous vote by the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, and we support the rapporteur's good report.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1578	The National Audit Office’s investigation into the border control of the Customs and Fees Act, covering the period 2011-2013, is an important survey, as the border control of the Customs and Fees Act is the control of goods, passengers and means of transport to detect smuggling. As stated in the report, the main objective of the ETA is to prevent and prevent the illegal import and export of goods closely related to the role of the Civil Protection Authority. In the past, the size has underlined the importance of countering organised crime by reducing the distribution of drugs. The Customs and Fee Directorate writes about border control that the main objective is to counter organised drug crime. If the customs service had not been so clear on this and had instead been committed to controlling the small smuggling of tobacco and alcohol, perhaps the seizures would have been more numerous, and one was guaranteed a high hit percentage. I find it reassuring that the main focus of customs is to counter organised crime, with the emphasis on drug crime. In its letter of 1 October 2014, the Customs Service referred to numbers of the most common types of drugs for 2013 and compared them with similar seizures in the other Scandinavian countries, i.e. Sweden, Denmark and Finland. The tabular list provided by the agency shows that the customs service does not stand back for any of the other Scandinavian countries, rather on the contrary. I therefore find reason to commend the customs service for this. As stated in the comments of the Council of State on the Riksrevision report, the Council of State emphasises the transparency and relevance of the Riksrevision’s investigation into the border control of the customs and tax havens. At the same time, the Council of State considers that the report can give the impression that the border control of the establishment is not working, or prioritizing, and that this does not give a comprehensive picture of the border control. The Ministry of Finance finds the Riksrevision’s comment on the lack of prioritisation of the detection of serious infringements in order to combat financial crime for unhealthy purposes. I have noticed that the Council of State believes that there will always be room for improvement, that there is a need for stronger and better border control, and that this will be facilitated. I have also noticed that there is an organisational change in the tax rate that gives a comprehensive responsibility for taxes and charges, while the new customs duty rate is to be strengthened and reinforced to operate border control and goods management at the border. Among these, the government will also restrict the customs and tax system. With the conversion that the Council of State is notifying, and that I have already understood, this is likely to help sharpen the efforts of the customs authorities towards a stronger and better border control for the fight against organised crime. The progress party is very pleased that the government announces that the customs office will have police authority. With the changes that have been announced, and which have been partly already started, I believe that in the future the customs service will be able to solve its important primary tasks more than now, while meeting the criticism of the Riksrevision where relevant, in a good way. Furthermore, I refer to the good comments made by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1601	The National Audit Office’s investigation of the Customs and Fee Permit Control is a very important document. We have an office that is facing increasingly demanding challenges, and it is important that we constantly have an alert look at how it works. The main objective of the ETA is to prevent or discourage the illegal import and export of goods and it is closely linked to the role of the Customs and Fee Team in society. The social role of the customs and tax haven is also linked to social security. We have had several examples that the Customs and Fee Setaten has been observant and pointed out in a good way the risk of what is happening in the movement of goods. The crew in 2013 was in the 1 840 annual works unit, of which 260 were net annual works for operational border control, or about 14 pst. When we know that one border controller in the post all day, all year round, accounts for about six annual works, 260 net annual works for operational border control, according to the Central Party's assessment, are very low numbers. It's a very low number given the task to be done. I believe that seas, if there is some divergence, it is important to develop the main findings of the Riksaudition report: the lack of prioritisation of the work to detect serious infringements in order to combat economic organised crime, large regional variations in the control of travellers, low seizures for several types of drugs and currencies, the small adaptation of crews to increased traffic volumes on weekends and holidays, the lack of an overview of traffic at several unmanned border stations, weaknesses in key instruments and, finally, in several areas the establishment and activity management does not provide an adequate basis for knowledge-based management of the Customs and Fees Border Control. The Council of State states that the National Audit Office’s investigations into border control are transparent and relevant, but at the same time it does not provide an adequate picture, and the Council of State has – as several have mentioned – used the terms ‘unyanished’ and ‘for bastante’. I would say that while the Council of State believes there is a need for a stronger and better border control, I had expected a somewhat more humble and listening Council of State in view of the challenge we are facing. The representative Skutle said it was important to have the most flexible control for individuals. Yes, I agree with that, but it should be a real check, so that the Customs and Fee Seat does not become a paper tiger in the case of individuals. There shall be a real risk of being taken. Otherwise, it will be difficult to set rules in Stortinget for what you can introduce without customs, if there are no realities in our control. That's why I'm going to join the unanimous committee, which says one should take control professional considerations into account. It is essential in this case, as in all other cases, that it is the control profession or the professional that is to be given substantial weight. But at the same time I have to say that in the Central Party there is an impatience in the question. There is an impatience associated with three themes. The first is that we need to have a continuous improvement in strategic leadership, establish a better common understanding of reality between management and border controllers and listen more to the professionals in the field. It is so important to listen dynamically to professionals in the field. That's where one first experiences what's going on, and one has to continuously improve the organisation with what an experienced in the field. Second, greater financial resources are needed to meet illegal imports and exports. There has to be more people in practice; there has to be an increased risk of being taken. We have many offices where there are too few people out in the specific control situation. We've seen that if you get up in that area, there'll be a culture among those who want to commit illegalities, which are more offensive, and we'll lose the grip. Finally, the third point is better technology, not least by establishing smart surveillance cameras, so-called ANPR cameras, at all mobile border stations, so that this can be implemented in 2015. This allows signs and information about the vehicles to be identified. It will lead to more efficient and targeted work, which is absolutely necessary, so that there will be no transitions where most people know that it is easier to run over without being caught.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1618	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1634	The situation for the oil industry is dramatic. In the last six months we have received more and more notices of termination, especially in the supplier industry. There are 10,000 fewer people this year and another 10,000 to 15,000 who have to go next year. The supply industry employs 136 000 people. Over 40 pst. of these jobs located along the coast, from West Agder to Hordaland. We now see that the unemployment rate in West Agder, Rogaland and Hordaland has increased by 14 pst. last year, while the increase for the rest of the country was 2 pst. The Labour Party is deeply concerned about the situation. It's about people who lose their jobs, an important industry that loses competence and capacity, and impaired value creation. The oil industry is a cyclical industry, and we have gone through both ups and downs in all the years we have had oil business in Norway. While the previous downstrokes were largely about fluctuations in the oil price, we now have several factors that work in the same direction. Over many years of increased activity and high oil prices, the level of costs has increased significantly in both oil companies and the supply industry. On the new construction side, our offshore shipyard has had problems with its competitiveness against Asian shipyards. At the same time, we see that the activity of operation, maintenance and modifications has fallen sharply. In addition to the need for cost reductions, we see that the capital discipline of oil companies itself contributes to the reduction of activity. In order to satisfy shareholders’ short-term wishes for returns, investments in future value creation are reduced. The third factor that drives down the activity is falling oil prices. The situation in the oil market is dramatic, and it doesn't seem like we're getting a normalization of the supply/demand ratio in the next few years. Full oil stocks are reported worldwide, which means that it will take time for increased demand or reduced production to determine price. The overall goal of Norwegian petroleum policy is to maximise the values and the best possible value creation of our oil and gas resources as a nation. That's how far we've done well. We have high extraction rates, low emissions, and we have managed to build a large national supplier industry. In a troubled time that is now, it is important that we have a complete look at what good resource management is. At my discretion, it is about managing natural resources, investments and the competence and capacity of all the 250,000 people who work in connection with the industry. Ever since we received the so-called ten oil bids in 1971, such an overall perspective has been used as a basis for our petroleum policy. For this reason, cyclic downturns have also been met with political action to mitigate negative impacts and provide the basis for good industry development. The introduction of the NORSOK standard, the establishment of the Konkraft cooperative body, where the oil industry meets both the supplier industry and trade movement, and the establishment of INTSOK, in order to strengthen the international position of the supplier industry, are all examples of actions that have been initiated in bad times. Low oil prices, slowing down investments and high costs are affecting all oil producing countries to a greater or lesser extent. What separates us from other countries is our ability to pull the load together in bad times. The Norwegian model, where businesses, trade unions and authorities sit down and find solutions, is a competitive advantage in times like this. The working party wants uniform and high value creation on a Norwegian base. It doesn't come of itself. Now, when it cancels out, we have to see what we can do to dampen the fall in activity. As politicians, we cannot override the markets, and we should not hold up unprofitable projects, but we must nevertheless take seriously the challenge we are facing. During the autumn, the working party has submitted several proposals for action to address the situation. With too many field developments, we have experienced that large contracts are won by foreign shipyards with low bids, but that the final result will be major delays and excessive cost growth during the construction period. As much of the cost is written off on the tax, the community is most exposed to the impact of poor processing and poor contract strategies in the projects. It is a fact that construction at Norwegian workshops is much less affected by delays and running costs. We have therefore proposed that, in addition to the excellent work they do in assessing the petroleum industry in the development and operation plan, the Oil Directorate should also be set up with the competence to assess the strategies for implementing the development. In this way, we can reduce risk and improve resource control and use. We believe that the government's tightening of the permitting legislation was wrong, and that this policy is particularly negative for the supplier industry now. For example, in the case of the courts, this means that they have an obligation to pay for the first two months after the permit has entered into force. This is because workers in 2- to 4-offshore rotation work only 10 days per month. Thus, the purpose of the law on permitting, i.e. to enable the employer to overcome a temporary order failure without losing the firm’s competence, is not respected for this sector. It can also be said for other parts of the supplier industry. Among other things, the background is that both the NHO and the LO require the employer’s pay obligation to be reduced from 20 to 10 days. Many have expressed concern that a fall in activity is at the expense of necessary maintenance and safety. The report of the Petroleum Authority on the level of risk in Norwegian petroleum activities 2013 on maintenance states: ‘The figures from 2010 to 2013 show no significant improvement related to maintenance management. For production devices, the total amount of corrective maintenance outstanding and release for preventive maintenance in 2013 is at the same level as in 2012. However, the level of corrective maintenance outstanding in 2013 is significantly higher than for 2010 and 2011. Outstanding corrective maintenance of the quantities reported will contribute to the risk in itself.» There are large numbers, and there is a lot of work that needs to be done sooner or later. The working party considers that the suspension should be reduced and that the available capacity can be put into operation. I am amazed that the proposal that the government makes sure that the activity case does not go at the expense of maintenance and safety was voted down by the majority of the population. When the kerosene message arrived in 2011, a lack of rigging was reported on the Norwegian base. This had a significant negative impact on the cost level, it was said. Our government took the initiative to remedy this. Now the situation is that riggers are in storage, and contracts are suspended. During 2014, five drilling devices have left the socket and several will follow it. During 2015 and 2016, a further 10 devices will become available. At the same time, we are told that there are many wells on the Norwegian pedestal that are abandoned, but that are only temporarily studied. It is uncertain how many wells there are that should be studied permanently. Norwegian oil and gas are talking about 3,000 wells per day. The Petroleum Authority has carried out a study showing that out of 282 temporarily abandoned wells, 132 issues related to barrier to emissions are issues. The working party believes that we can tackle this now when we have free rigging capacity. This is work that needs to be done sooner or later, and in this way we increase the safety of the base while employing free rigging capacity and preventing the rigging from leaving the Norwegian base. It is sad that this idea meets with great resistance from the government parties, but the more pleased that Statoil could tell on Friday that they have taken back the rig Songa Drum from suspension to new missions with just well-plugging. The Norwegian supplier industry is a highly skilled industry. These are competences developed and maintained through activity. Falling activity also leads to a deterioration in skills and capacity. We believe that in such a situation, a job should be done to identify the situation now, see what lies ahead of us in terms of skills needs, and see whether – and in the case of how – the competence of the supplier industry can be further developed, including in areas other than petroleum activities. The international oil industry is facing tough demands for dividends from its shareholders. We are now in an era of petroleum activity where large investments are required to replace production after each phase. When companies reduce investments in exploration and expansion to have money for dividends, we have a big problem. This can lead to time-critical projects not being realised, and we get a lower use of resources than is possible. We expect companies that receive exploration and extraction permits on a Norwegian base to develop profitable projects in general – not just the super-wage ones. As a majority in Statoil, the Council of State also has a role in the dividend policy of this company. I believe it would be natural for the Council of State to discuss in its own dialogue whether the company's ambitious dividend programme can now reduce the company's ability to create values in the future. Can high yields in today's situation conflict with the country's long-term returns target? The Labour Party has no performance attached to the individual proposals and ideas we bring to the square. We do not have all the answers to what should be done, but we are convinced that the problems that we see evolve will not disappear by themselves. We have to admit that the situation is serious. We need to acquire knowledge about the extent of the situation, what threats it brings, but also what opportunities are. It is time for initiatives to be taken to allow us to go through the bad times without losing the necessary skills and capacity, so that the negative impact of the downturn is minimised. So far, the government's and government's answers have been that they follow the situation closely, but the challenges we face cannot be solved from the Tribune. That's why we're asking for action and we're asking, what does the government want to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1681	Let me take the opportunity to thank the interpellant for, as I have said once before, that we finally have this autumn/early in winter got a petroleum policy opposition in Stortinget. The questions that the interpellant raises are important. The oil and gas business is the carrier of the Norwegian economy. It contributes to the creation of value, jobs, technology and not least to the development of society throughout the country. It also makes a major and important contribution to the financing of our welfare society, and it is the most important regional industry in Norway. Let me look at the whole of this industry, in this business, and describe the development of Norwegian petroleum activities until today. Industry has been, is and will remain a cyclical industry. Ever since we started this business more than 50 years ago, we've been through fluctuations in oil prices and not least in activity, with the background of the resources we've found, or not found, on a Norwegian base. We now have a period of about ten years with more or less uninterrupted growth, partly strong growth. Since 2003, the Norwegian supplier industry has had an annual average growth of about 2 %. 9 pst. Over 70 000 new jobs have been created over the same ten-year period. I want to remind you that although we now see that growth stops, and we probably see a decrease in investment, the level is still high. We will take seriously the challenges involved, but I would like to remind you that the activity on the Norwegian base will remain high, among other things. due to fields already in operation, and not least due to the large Johan Sverdrup development. I want to warn you that from a political point of view, we are using a rhetoric that helps to reinforce the unrest out there. I don't think a word like ‘bray stop’ covers what's happening on a Norwegian pedestal right now. On the contrary, in the case of Norwegian oil and gas, I assume that it will be invested between 190 and 200 billion. NOK in Norwegian capital next year. The SSB is a little bit more moderate and has an estimate of 188 billion. kr invested on Norwegian base. To call that the reduction from about 220 billion. SEK this year until in the order of 190 billion. I don't agree. No one called in 2011 an investment level of 148-150 billion. kr for a row stop. And you're going back no further than 2011 to see investment levels that are far below what we expect to see next year, in 2016, 2017 and the years to 2020. Then we are also so lucky that we have developed a Norwegian supplier industry that not only delivers to Norwegian sockets and depends on the level of activity here, but that has created a high-tech industry that is also very popular internationally. For the long-term resource management on the base and development of the supply industry, it is important that competence and technology are maintained. This is why the government is investing in education, research and technology development, which contributes to this. The interpellant then pointed out that the high level of investment that has grown over time is due to the fact that there is indeed a high level of activity, that many resources come into production, but not least a high level of costs – a high and, unfortunately, rising level of costs. We have seen that this trend has been strong since the year 2000. Much of it is part of an international trend in development, but it is likely that costs have increased slightly more in Norway than we would like. It is clear that this means that the profits of the companies, but also of the state treasury, have been reduced. Production from investments put into production and from new and more expensive projects is paralysed by this. And then it's quite right that the interpellant points out that in the capital market today, the ability of companies to capital discipline and dividend position is now valued more strongly, while replacement and production growth are valued to a lesser extent than in the past. In any case, the combination of falls in oil prices and new trends among operators makes industry see the situation as very demanding, not least in comparison with increased costs. That is why we also see – and this is very gratifying – that good and important work has been started both among operators and among Norwegian-suppliers in order to reduce costs. It is a responsibility which lies primarily with those who are operators on Norwegian base, either operators or suppliers. To the extent that the authorities can contribute, of course, we will. The alternative is that we lose both competitiveness and future industrial jobs and an important part of the financing of the Norwegian welfare state. Then we have some gradually very well-established roles for what the authorities are going to take responsibility for and what the industry is going to take responsibility for. The market has largely created the instability we see now. It may not have been created in the last year, although the representative Henriksen might want to do so, but it is in any case that the market has to take the main responsibility for correcting the imbalance that is there. In Norway, we are so lucky that we, as the representative was involved in, have strong and good cooperation, a cooperation of the parties on the base and a tripartite cooperation in the Norwegian community, which represents, among other things. a support bar on how to regulate health, environmental and safety issues on the base – a key requirement for safe working space and the use of the base within a sound environmental framework. Then we hear from the Norwegian industry, which is one of many actors we have good dialogue with, that it has been announced about 4,500 redundancies in this industry in 2014. There is a reduction in employment of about 3 pst. At the same time, the SSB reports that the unemployment rate in the Norwegian labour market is stable. There is no doubt that the situation is demanding for the companies that are hardest hit, and not least for the individual, who actually have to change jobs or even lose the job. This is a situation we from the government follow closely, and so we have, among other things, to discuss current developments in the business and to present it to the Stortinget, of course. So the Petroleum Authority, Ptil, has publicly expressed its concern that large cuts can go beyond health, the environment and safety. It is, of course, important that the strong attention to cutting costs does not go at the expense of safety and safety for workers on Norwegian pedestals. Ptil has therefore changed its activities, including: by more closely following the projects and carrying out more and more supervisory activities. It is fully possible to reduce costs without jeopardising HMS, as long as the actors are aware of the challenge in the HMS work and also understand the consequences of cost reductions. The feedback from Ptil has been so far that they see no evidence that the extensive cut-off plans have had undesirable consequences for the health, environment and safety of Norwegian pedestals. I also perceive that the trade union movement shares the overall view that it is fully possible to reduce the costs on Norwegian pedestal without jeopardising health, the environment and safety. My job is to facilitate the profitable production of oil and gas within a sound framework. It has been the main objective of Norwegian oil and energy ministers for many decades. There is still a significant potential on Norwegian soil. Less than half of the resources have been extracted. In order for the remaining resources to create values and prosperity in Norway over the decades ahead of us, we need to facilitate, on a broad scale, the positive, long-term and profitable development of resources. The government also intends to facilitate this. Then I see that I don't have any more speaking time left.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1713	It is good to hear that the Council of State is in a good mood over Christmas and wishes to welcome an opposition in the petroleum policy, as he did in the budget debate. It is good that we have not marked a very strong opposition in the past to a government council that says that he is slavishly following the kerosene message and the policy that we put forward and adopted. What we are also very pleased about is that we have not yet seen any trace of the 27 proposals that the opposition in our time has promoted precisely in connection with the notification of petroleum, in the policy ahead. But leave it. There is a fundamental consensus about the big lines of petroleum policy, but in the situation we are facing now, there is a difference in the view of precisely the division of labour when we have the challenges we now have. The Council of State points out that the market must take responsibility for correcting the imbalances created in the market. Yes, to some extent I have to agree with that. But as politicians, we have a responsibility at the overall level to act to protect and manage the resources, both the human resources, the natural resources and the capacity that lies there – not to be kind to people or the oil industry, but because we have to take care of that capacity in view of future growth. Because we can't have it the day oil prices rise, we get the same carousel that we've had in the last ten years. Then there's something that's coming back up again and still, especially from the oil industry, in this debate, and that's the level of investment on Norwegian pedestal. Yeah, that's a high level of investment, that's absolutely right. But where are these investments going? They're going to big investment projects, and the money goes largely to Korea. We have investments in Goliath, we have investments in Asta Hansteen, Gina Krog and Ivar Aasen, all of which were built outside the country's borders. This is what happens as investments. In my opinion, and as many have expressed it, this is an abrupt stop. It's very much about maintenance and modification, and it's in the segment we see that they're struggling now. I would have liked the Council of State and the government to be more in the driver's seat for the work to be done now. It is true that the parties are doing a good job today, but to a greater extent, pressure is needed by the government. At the same time, I think it's very important that as a bulking we get an overview of the scope of this. Then we'll see when the proposition of plan and expansion for the operation of Johan Sverdrup comes, if we get answers to our questions there.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1728	It is difficult for me to comment very much on contracts that have ended up in Korea while there was a red-green government council in the Oil and Energy Ministry under a government that was run by just the Workers' Party. Let me say it so that we can take care of that I have said that we will manage the petroleum resources in a long and good political tradition for large, broad compromises in the Storting. I'm sure it's been part of the success of the Norwegian base. Then I want to be very clear on another thing. This government will make any changes to the framework conditions in dialogue with the parties – with all the industry partners, both the trade union movement, suppliers and operators – just to avoid debate on stability in the framework conditions. I noticed that the red-green government wasn't always as concerned. Then I would also like to remind the representative Henriksen that it is important that the state and the Norwegian authorities act in a predictable manner on the issue of individual cases. The employee party-led intervention in the handling of the Johan Sverdrup development last year created significant uncertainty about the timetable and thus important contracts for Norwegian suppliers could be maintained. We had seen a much darker situation for the supplier industry if the Johan Sverdrup project had not now been on its way to Stortinget. Had not the government parties intervened as one did, and got the agreement that one did, I fear that this had looked much worse. In the investigation that has now been consulted, it is assumed that only the first phase of Johan Sverdrup’s development will create around 22,000 annual works at Norwegian suppliers’ companies — in Norway, for natural reasons — and about 22,000. 12,000 annual works with their subcontractors. Without these years, the situation today had looked somewhat more challenging than it actually does. So it is important that we remember that this is not just the overall framework of the activity to be agreed on; we also need to agree that it is precisely in the overall framework of the policy of Norwegian oil and gas. Then I hear what Per Rune Henriksen also says about Statoil and dividends. Now I would like to remind you that, first of all, the red-green ownership message to Stortinget is now broadly anchored. A new ownership message has just been presented by this government, which in many ways is in line with the previous one. I have full confidence that, in line with the ownership announcement, the Board of Statoil is able to take care of the shareholder interests both in the short and long term, including the interests of the Norwegian authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1741	I am very pleased that the representative Per Rune Henriksen has addressed this question. For the whole coast, for the counties and for many thousands of employees in the petroleum industry, the situation is serious. The representative Henriksen's description of the situation is very precise. I hear that the Council of State warns against the use of language, but it is nevertheless such that for those who are in it, this feels serious. For Rogaland, the situation is particularly serious in Egersund and Haugesund, but also in the Stavanger area one now knows on the body that the situation is serious. Several hundred people have been cancelled in Rogaland, and in the areas where I come from, companies and operators experience that there are declines and difficulties, but it notices extra good and is particularly difficult in the supplier industry, where hundreds of people have been cancelled. There is a dramatic situation for the individual and for the families in this, but it is also the case, as the interpellant said, that when the unemployment rate in West Agder, Rogaland and Hordaland has increased by 14 pst. Since last year, while for the rest of the country there has been an increase of 2 pst., it is serious for us who come from the Western states. As the interpellant, and for that matter the Council of State, had in mind, there are several reasons for this, both that the oil price has fallen and that the level of costs has increased. Our competitiveness towards the Asian yard is also a cause, and not least the activity of operation, maintenance and modification has fallen sharply. We need to have a complete look at what's good resource management. Before, in the early 1970s, wise men and women made wise decisions, which have made a good and predictable petroleum policy for many decades. It is important that one has a broad political agreement on petroleum policy even today, because it is important for value creation, where one has a high degree of exploitation, low emissions and a strong supplier industry. The council says in its statement that he is pleased that one has an oil policy opposition. I think that oil policy really doesn't think the Council of State is so happy about the opposition, but he'll be glad that there's a common understanding in this house of the value and importance of the industry, and it's important that the Council of State takes responsibility for it. We who have lived for a while remember very well the consequences of the last major downfall in the petroleum industry. People were cancelled, people stopped, and people went into new industries. Youths opted for educational pathways that could give them access to the petroleum industry. They no longer believed that this was an industry with opportunities. The situation at the time made the road up again difficult and heavy. We had a lot of problems with recruitment, and we had a solid loss of competence. But then one has clearly, after the case that was the last, to use the time rationally and to show that the petroleum industry is an industry for the future. One has built on the competence, and one has taken care of it. This was achieved in close cooperation between authority, industry and trade union movement. 250,000 people are connected to the industry, so there are many families that get their heads and food on the table as a result of their work in this industry. Then I hear the council say we're not going to talk the industry down, because then it can be a self-fulfilling prophecy, but that's not what one is doing here today either. One now wants one to do that one can do to counteract what is happening, and does not end up in the same situation as one was in the past. The Labour Party is concerned that the government is building up cooperation between the authorities, industry and trade unions. If we do that, we'll undermine the Norwegian model. The industry and the trade union movement have been very clear that the government's tightening of the legislation on permitting has further exacerbated the situation. People are told off instead of getting a permit. We were many who had hoped that this government would make about the decision they made when it came to the law of permacy. It hasn't happened, and the serious consequences of that are now being seen when people get laid off. I am also afraid that this situation will make the competence disappear from the industry – in one of the areas where we really have a advantage competitively through the competence we possess. I am also afraid that the youth will once again turn away from the industry and choose other areas of education, so that on the next crossroads we will have problems with recruitment and with regaining competence. When the government in the finance and in the throne says that they're telling us what's going on, and then they're kind of setting a sentence without telling us what's going to come, and what's going to do about this, that's what worries us today: that we have to know how you're going to deal with this. One has to get an overview of the situation, and then find action that can work well in resolving this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1767	Today early on, the oil price was less than $63 barrel. Since this summer this is a fall of over 40 pst. It is clear that this case is noticed, and it is well noticed – both in the offshore industry and in the Norwegian economy. An oil price of less than $70 is a challenge for Norway, because many of the projects we have on a Norwegian base require a higher price than this to be profitable. Some examples are the Castberg extension and Snorre 2040. The exception is the Johan Sverdrup field, which will still be profitable even if the oil price falls to almost $40. In this project, there are great opportunities for Norwegian industry and many jobs. In the whole oil and gas industry, including internationally, there is now a transformation process to cut costs. This is a very necessary transition, especially in Norway. Even though the oil price was going to get something up again, and some traces in that direction, it is unfortunate that our industry depends on as high a price as we have had. We must equip ourselves for a future with a sustained lower oil price than the one we have seen in recent years, in order to maintain our competitiveness and safe Norwegian jobs – regardless of where the oil price would be a year ahead. The most important thing that governments can do for industry is to ensure stable and predictable framework conditions. Our main tool here is to facilitate activity. The Government therefore pursues a predictable and offensive policy of licensing in the ordinary concession rounds and in the TFO rounds. The starting point for this Workers' Party interpellation is their concern that the government is not dealing enough with downsizing and less activity in the oil industry. Although I disagree with their conclusion, I share the Workers' Party's concern for the development we see in the oil and gas industry. Low oil prices and less activity leading to job losses present challenges. I can assure the Workers' Party that the government is following closely. But where the Workers' Party wants to instruct Statoil to use free rigs to study wells, we believe that the authorities' tasks are more complex than they saw to meet the challenges. I would like to repeat my criticism of the Labour Party from the budget debate a week and a half ago – it is not good Norwegian ownership policy to instruct companies in how to use their resources. It's the companies themselves that know this best, not the politicians at Stortinget. What the Workers' Party is putting forward here is another example of how they find it opportune to present proposals that create uncertainty about the industry's framework conditions. At a time when the krone price falls and the Norwegian economy is slower, it is important that we contribute to maintaining activity in Norwegian business. This is why the government is putting a great deal of effort on infrastructure, on green business, on research and development, to mention something. We also need to think about how to give Norway more legs to stand on – lower activity in the oil industry is a strong reminder of how important this is. We have to use the opportunity now to build the country for the future. There are also great opportunities in a time of lower crown prices and lower offshore activity. This government has announced a shift in the pace of promoting Norwegian business internationally. This is important not least for the Norwegian supplier industry. Last year this industry traded for 205 billion. kr in international markets. Increased internationalisation therefore increases national and local value creation and jobs in Norway. For this part of the industry, a lower price of crowns also leads to positive sides. For other parts of Norwegian industry too, this is positive and strengthens their ability to compete internationally. We owe it to the skilled and newly trained workers of the future to facilitate an innovative labour market. A globalised world requires strong Norwegian jobs. The government is already well under way, we have lowered the income tax, reduced the property tax and removed the inheritance tax. In the petroleum sector, we have also strengthened the commitment to research so that the Norwegian environment in this industry can develop its competence. There is no doubt that the current situation in the oil and gas industry is challenging. However, the totality of government policies, where we contribute to strengthening and growth in Norwegian business – and continue to predictability of the framework conditions and an active allocation policy to ensure activity – are far more important now than the proposals the Workers' Party has promoted, such as: well-tuning services. And we must not forget that there is no sudden stoppage in the industry. The level of investment will remain high in the future. The industry is cyclic, and I think we can expect to see a recovery in activity again. I am pleased that we have this debate, but I believe the long-term thoughts and stability of the framework conditions in the future is the most important thing to keep focus on.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1791	The representative Per Rune Henriksen is concerned and writes that the situation in the petroleum sector and the supplier industry of many is described as dramatic. Emergency brake in investments, modifications and maintenance leads to dramatic downsizing. Per Rune Henriksen further writes that there are concerns that investment stops weaken the overall level of security and resource management – as well as the future necessary capacity in industry. He asks what the government will do to prevent a redundancy in investments motivated by capital discipline in oil companies from weakening security and causing lasting damage to Norwegian petroleum industry and the supplier industry. There are several answers to this challenge, although I do not really share this description of the situation. The word "bracket" appears to be something strange. As I said, there are several answers to the challenge, and the industry is now looking forward to the possibilities that Johan Sverdrup will provide. Johan Sverdrup is the largest industrial project in Norway for several decades. Plan for expansion and operation is expected to be handed over to the authorities in February 2015. There, the Labour Party created great uncertainty for a period of time, and many fears that all the work represented this expansion would be postponed by at least one year. Everyone understands the consequences of such a postponement. In that case, the unemployment rate in this sector would seem much worse. Luckily, one of these things was avoided because of pressure from trade. There are three important areas one must continue to work on to ensure the future position of the Norwegian supplier industry. The first is the home market: Leading and stable framework conditions in the petroleum policy are important for the Norwegian supplier industry. The main means of maintaining the activity of the government in the petroleum industry is the granting of licences in the ordinary concession rounds and the TFO rounds. That's where it's delivered. The other is research. Through increased public support for petroleum research, the government agrees to ensure that the Norwegian environment can develop its competence to deliver tomorrow's solutions to the oil and gas industry. The third is internationalisation. Internationalisation of the industry also increases national and local value creation and employment in Norway. The government has notified a change of pace when it comes to promoting the industry internationally. The Ministry of Oil and Energy is focused on supporting the Norwegian supplier industry in international markets. In the case of international activity, the supplier companies shall transfer for 205 billion. SEK in these markets in 2013. A large and demanding home market has helped to develop an internationally competitive supplier industry that we are very proud of. Internationalisation of the industry increases national and local value creation and employment in Norway. The Norwegian base is the main markets for the Norwegian supplier industry South Korea, the United Kingdom and Brazil. Riggs and drilling services have the largest turnover internationally. Nearly the same size is the platform deck and process equipment segment, followed by underwater equipment and installation. The above estimate is obtained from two studies carried out by Rystad Energy on behalf of, among other things. The Ministry of Oil and Energy in 2014. The reports are about the regional activity of the supplier industry in Norway and international turnover. It is also a fact that we have to face the fact that investment and activity peaked in 2014 and that activity will decrease slightly in the future. Then it's about transition, a greater international focus, and fortunately, we see that the industry is proactive and oriented towards new markets internationally. In 2014, global oil production has increased more than the increase in demand. The effect of this has been a severe fall in oil prices. Black measurement at a time when one sees that the price of oil is under strong pressure strengthens the pressure and should at least not give the impression that this challenge is temporary but, after all, lasting. Then I remind you of the three important areas that I was in the past. As many have said here, the oil industry is a cyclical industry. This is found in experience with oil prices from $50 to $150 the barrel earlier – within a relatively short time frame. However, it is not possible to establish that the level of safety, HMS, is weaker as the activity is being somewhat reduced. The claim of 3,000 boreholes, which should have been studied, stands out as random, and in conversations with the company one doesn't recognize itself at all. So the question is whether the Labour Party ceases to trust these companies. It is strange to note the concerns of the Workers' Party now after they have moved out of government offices. The government partners SV are committed to reducing the activity vigorously, as we also experience that the workers' party representatives wish when the climate debate is under way. Then there is little about the fact that the petroleum industry is an industry for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1823	I would like to thank the interpellant for an interesting and very topical interpellation on a theme that the Storting should discuss more often than the Stortinget probably has done in the years that lie behind us. Petroleum industry is important for the whole of Norway. There are many jobs linked both to oil companies and to the supply industry throughout the coast, both in the west and in central Norway and in northern Norway. So it's just as some people have said, that this is a cyclical industry, and that you have to assume that there are some up and downhill. But the situation we are now seeing is nevertheless suitable for creating a certain concern. The fall in the oil price has been great. Swell if the oil price is higher than it has been in previous periods, there is still a rather sudden fall, and we are also beginning to see the consequences of what gives cause for concern. As far as the oil price is concerned, I'm not going to stand here on the Storting's pulpit and predict it. I would say that developments in the price of oil have happened quite quickly, and it gives a unambiguously uncertain picture. It is not very easy to draw any bastant endings whether how much further it should go down, or how long a descent becomes. But there is reason to take the situation with falling oil prices seriously and be prepared that the emergency brake that the interpellant is talking about can be quite extensive and quite lengthy. It is then important, in the opinion of the Centre Party, that one is concerned about which measures the Norwegian authorities can contribute, but it is also important – and I have to say – that the industry has a sense of cost. Then it is clear that cost cuts should not be at the expense of health, the environment and safety. Cost cuts shall not be used as a shelling cover for a crew who are unnecessary, but there is no doubt that the level of costs in this industry has been high over many years and that one has to have a different type of cost awareness in the years ahead than it may have had in recent years. This applies in and on both the oil companies and the supplier industry. In the past, with challenges in this sector, the will for an active policy, in particular towards the supplier industry, has been quite great. It's also important in the period ahead of us. Marine oil companies and supply industries in Norway are globalised, there must be a certain balance between oil company and supply industry on Norwegian soil. It's important. Then a discussion about contracts to the rest of the world is important. Then one can stand here and owe it to what or who and such things, but it's a discussion that actually matters. The type of competence that can be maintained in the years to come within the supply industry is also important. There is no doubt that many engineers will find new work rather quickly if they do not get work in the oil industry, but there are also specialised competences related to the various large supply industries that are vulnerable to this situation and one has previously had quite active attitudes to maintain competence. The changes in the legislation currently in force do not make the situation easier than it has been in the past, which must, on the contrary, be said to be the case. Then it must not be that any political stance expressed is seen as an attempt to stick and create uncertainty about the framework conditions, to which the representative Bru tended. Storing and government in Norway have consistently held opinions on the development of the oil and supply industry. We should still have that, and maybe we should have that even more in the future than we've had in recent years. That's why I think many of the measures outlined from the interpellant are interesting. Giving the Oil Directorate a more active and strategic role is important. That's what I think is interesting to discuss. I have mentioned the rules on permitting, which do not help to dampen the fluctuations we are now in – on the contrary. I also think the question of what can be done with free rigging capacity and the ability to plug wells is an interesting topic. The question of conducting the dividends of listed companies, I think, is a little more demanding, but it is also a question that one must be allowed to discuss at a more general political level. The centre party looks forward to several interesting oil and energy-related debates in the future. We believe that it will also be necessary to take into account the major interests in both employment, district and industrial policy, which lie in these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1851	I also want to first thank you for an interesting interpellation. Clearly, the situation is serious. It's the one in the South West, it's the one for the suppliers and the people involved. It is also clear that when there is a brake in the supply industry in Norway, it also enters the rest of the Norwegian economy in a short time. But what is crucial to our strategy is an analysis of the situation we are facing. Is it that the low oil price is the result of a turn, and that it will come up again? Or are we in front of a larger shift with a more permanent low oil price? Without predicting the oil price – it’s difficult to do – I still think you should take on the fact that there are many things that indicate that we are facing a more permanent situation with a lower oil price. One is that you have a shale oil revolution in the United States, which means that the price has stabilised at a lower level, you can produce at a lower level. We have a situation where OPEC also has to compete for market shares, and does not have the same strength to limit its oil production. And then we're in a situation where there's also lower demand for oil internationally than expected. So it could be that this is because you have a difficult economic situation, and when the economy comes up again, the oil price also comes up again. But we also need to be aware that in the big, mature economies, as in the United States, oil consumption is falling today. I myself was present at the climate negotiations in Lima, which was now concluded. This is also a situation that we want to continue and become a situation where more countries, more regions, are able to reduce their oil consumption if we are to be able to achieve the 2-degree target by 2050. I think it's important to realize here that we're facing a bigger shift, and that we have to put up with the Norwegian policy based on that. It is a matter of course that maintenance and health, the environment and safety should also be given priority when we are in a difficult situation. There is no doubt that we have a high cost level in Norwegian petroleum activities, and there I think you will take a little self-criticism and do an analysis of what we have done in the past. Because it is clear that the favourable depreciation rules, search refund schemes and other instruments that we have used in recent years to sustain a high level of activity, which has led us to attract many new companies to the Norwegian base, have also helped to raise the cost picture in the sector. We're going to take it that Norwegian oil and gas production is an adventure for the country, where one has really taken hold of a situation and has built up a competence and a business that is impressive and world-leading. It is now essential that in the years to come, we also use that competence and stimulate knowledge within that sector to go into other industrial activities as we have to convert Norway into a situation where the petroleum industry is going to be a smaller share of the Norwegian economy than it has been in the last 40 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1869	I want to thank the interpellant Per Rune Henriksen for traveling this theme, which is important to many of us. Not least in trade and business there are many who are having a little anxiety now before Christmas. It is alarming that unemployment increases, with the insecurity that we know it gives to the individual who has happened, and to their families. It is also alarming that, as a society, vital competences may disappear if people leave the industry, without the community enjoying the knowledge that this part of the workforce has. It's just in transition to the green shift, as most people in this room say they're on their way, that we can make the most of this knowledge. On behalf of the labour force and not least the future of our young people, I'm worried because the majority, when we have a chance at it through our budgetary work, won't spend enough money on such a change. I would like to remind you that SV is in charge of a more moderate rate of extraction, which was also minted instead, and a gradual conversion that would lead to a less rapid fall now – a kind of pre-wet principle as an alternative to a Tut-and-Run with an emergency stop that would lead to unemployment. It would be wise and necessary also to achieve the climate objectives, which the representative of Elvesuen had in mind. That being said, SV has supported the proposal to facilitate the study of wells, maintenance and modifications, as Henriksen mentions. In its alternative budget, SV is in charge of using our very supplier industry to build Norway green, to convert to a zero-emission society. It happens, as the representatives Bru and Elvestuen call, good things; some green changes happen. I am particularly pleased that the government and the partners were given a decision on a streamline in the budget agreement. Here Norway has a chance to lead and use our yard industry for a production that can also benefit other countries and which can provide Norwegian jobs for a long time. SV has also suggested reducing the tax rate on industry to 26 pst. to stimulate the mainland industry. Then maybe we could have had a stronger bet in several areas, where we can make use of the knowledge that we have. SV is in charge of a pilot field, that the state had to pay for wind turbines in a field that we can build on Norwegian yards. But we haven't got any plurals for that, unfortunately. When it comes to the rules of leave, of course, we support trade and business against the government, because we believe that the rules they are now are against maintaining competence and security in important aspects of our working life. First of all, it is to secure a working life with a fixed position and ensure good vocational training, continuing education and training, strong trade unions that are involved in developing their activities and have real advisory rights, tools that I strongly believe in to continue to develop and safeguard Norwegian working life and society. The representative Grimstad talks about how we can strengthen the supplier industry most with emphasis on the rest of the world. I would also like to remind you that five years ago, in February 2009, when we faced the serious financial crisis in this country, the Stortinget adopted several packages of measures, with public buildings, which prevent us from getting the big unemployment here as much of Europe toiled. The debate we are having here today must therefore be continued in the report on the big news, but also in the forthcoming budgetary rounds and perhaps in some extraordinary rounds, to ensure that the supplier industry, the oil industry, trade unions can gather together on a new idea of what they want us to allow money to do, so that we can support more changes that give us more of the green shift that Storting has so agreed that we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1890	There is a serious background for the Norwegian oil industry through the interpellation of Mr Henriksen and through the debate in the Chamber. I myself have over 16 years as a spokesman in Stord, a municipality there close to 50 pst. This has been linked to the supplier industry, and has really come to the attention of the major fluctuations in the industry. It's been a tough rise, with temporarily over 3,500 visiting workers, which is the mark of an island community. And it's been times when it hasn't been a single guest worker, and where the 2,000-3,000 fixed in our supplier companies on Stord have either been on vacation or on travel missions to Melkøya or Nyhavna or to installations under remote skies. And it's essentially the oil price that has been governing the level of activity, and then in such a way that all the actors seem to have gone into a crowd, either that they've struggled to recruit people, or that they've been working hard at the bottom of the crew. Maybe it's dragging it a little bit into the psychiatry, but it might seem that the oil and gas industry is a collective manic-depressive industry. What has been common after downturns in activity levels has been that after some time has come back, and it has been important that the Norwegian supplier community has not lost too much energy to be able to participate in the upcoming upturn. There is a lot of evidence that the downturn in activity, and the oil price drop that we are experiencing, is not of a fast-pacing nature. Therefore, it is now decisive for the competitiveness of the Norwegian technology environment and for the employment along the coast that all actors, both public and private, are really taking action to ensure that the Norwegian oil industry is also in the top class in the future, even if the overall level is to be lower than what we have in our waters. There seems to be a large deal among the competent analytical environment that there are no fundamentals in global developments that mean that demand for oil and gas will not remain high in the long term. As important as our oil and gas resources are for the Norwegian economy and activity, it is also important to look through the short-term fluctuations and to ensure that we, as a nation, get through this in a way that does not impair our position and competence, both as an energy supplier and as a product supplier. As both resource and corporate owners, it is the responsibility of the State to ensure that short-term arrangements do not result in a permanent deterioration in capacity and competence. The importance of short-term exchange and share price must not override the need for investment and maintenance. Corrosion, wear and upgrade requirements do not disappear by pushing things forward. Postponement of maintenance will increase costs in the long term, and there is great concern among those added to both oil companies and supplier companies for the possible consequences of such postings for the safety of the installation on the base. The level of cost reduction now appears to make it even more important to follow up the recommendations of the KonKraft report, particularly as regards cooperation initiatives between oil companies and the supplier industry. Here are the initiatives too few and too small in relation to the potential. And that's a shame, because here it must be in everyone's interest to pull together to strengthen a whole Norwegian industry. We need to secure contractual terms that do not weaken Norwegian suppliers' potential vis-à-vis foreign suppliers. If the Norwegian suppliers have to take far greater risks in areas they do not have the means to manage, I am afraid that such an increase at their own risk will be propagated at all stages of the supply chain and that as a result, there are far larger suppliers in other parts of the world who are contracted to the outsourced tasks. Our committee – that is right enough the transport committee – was on a committee tour in South Korea in the fall, and when we were there, we visited, among other things. Hyundai Heavy Industries. At that yard, Statoil had built an organization with 400 people just to manage the follow-up to construction tasks. It shouldn't be necessary, with the challenges we're facing here at home. I also think they had moved people down there after we got a new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1913	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for a very timely interpellant that affects large parts of the industry, but also workplaces. There may not have been so much in the media in the beginning, because it was a lot about renting, but today those who are permanently employed also start to know what kind of threat picture they're facing. The supplier industry is and has been one of our most important drivers to develop us as an international leading industry. Success is due, inter alia, to: access to natural resources that have been there. Many other countries have similar access, but what is unique in Norway is the combination of skilled professionals, businesses that have dared to invest, and authorities that have developed framework conditions that stimulate precisely this innovation and the ability to take risks, and not least that we have an exceptionally good education system. Permitting rules and the Working Environment Act are part of these framework conditions. The same is true of a forward-looking and non-neutral industrial policy, developed in close dialogue with industry, which provides both predictability, necessary flexibility and adaptability. It also appears that much of the industry and competence developed in the supplier industry has already gained transfer value to new industries in growth, such as the aquaculture industry and their installations. Marine wind has also used the expertise of the supplier industry, as we see in the process industry, which has lived exposed for very many years in view of international economic fluctuations. But now it's going up. It's pretty much characteristic of our coast that we're used to living with uncertainty. We know that there's always, even if there's going to be a decline, a rise, or that we're good at something, making it possible for us to use that competence in other areas. For the Workers' Party, value creation is very central, as is the development of offensive industrial policies. But then it's a topic that may have been little affected up to now, and it's educational provision for young people. There's been a little talk about black paint. The media quickly opens up major headlines, and young people are quite vulnerable. Statoil has been very central as a learning business in the offshore industry. In the autumn they took in 135 new apprentices. The main subject is chemistry, but they also have automation and industrial mechanics. These are training courses that can be used in any part of the industry. But now we've heard that Statoil has signaled that they're going to reduce the number of apprentices in the future. What's incredibly important to maintain that competence is that we get new young people who rate in the industrial environments that are so strong and dominating, where skills are absolutely vital. Perhaps some of the most important signal here from Stortinget is that Statoil still needs to show social responsibility, perhaps taking in even more apprentices as the situation is now, because that signal effect to other parts of the industry is incredibly important. By being such a great educational enterprise, Statoil is also involved in influencing the quality of training in all other industries that are close to Statoil. We will always need top skilled skilled workers. The size of the youth coals does not always correspond to the economic fluctuations. When young people are ready to make choices, the choices must be there, and not least companies in which the state is a major owner – and majority owners as in Statoil – must take on that responsibility, for youth is our future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1924	In my own county, Vest-Agder, unemployment has increased by 11 pst. from November last year, while the country, as we have heard, has had an increase of 2 p.m. The interpellant has described the good situation in Norway for the supplier industry, and the current situation and what the Workers' Party has proposed in this context. Prime Minister Erna Solberg gave the following answers in the Questionnaire to questions from Else-May Botten concerning this matter on 3 December this year: ‘We will be very alert to see if there are new measures that should be taken to help us to have a good and more stable activity. For the time being, this is not reflected in high unemployment rates. [[...]] For the time being, the workers who have been laid off are sucked up.» This is well and good, but here the Prime Minister and the government, in my opinion, are too much backward. For the unemployment rate is increasing – just see, as has been mentioned here, on West Agder, Rogaland and Hordaland. The question then is: What does the government intend to do? The time for action is now. In the introduction to Menon's 29/2014 report, it says: «Is the time for the big technology leaps against Norwegian pedestal?» At that, the answer is no, and here, at my discretion, the government has to bet, along with the industry. Innovation has driven development and value creation on a Norwegian base throughout the year, while cost-saving, for which the Council of State was committed to stressing the importance of this. This has enabled us to search, expand and operate safer and more efficiently, in more demanding conditions and at greater depths. We have surveyed huge resources, exploited a large part of them and achieved one of the world's highest extraction rates with a world-leading level of safety and environment. This has been done in close cooperation between the oil companies and the Norwegian supplier industry, which is today one of the world's strongest technology and knowledge clusters. Nor should we forget that innovation is also the main explanation for the strong internationalisation we have had in offshore supplier industries. In the last decade, foreign sales in offshore supplier industries have increased from about 40 billion. NOK to the top of SEK 170 billion. kr, and industry is one of the largest export industries in mainland Norway. The NODE network is one of the strongest knowledge clusters in Norway and one of two clusters in the new GCE programme. In this context, I would like to refer to the comments of the Business Committee on the Mechatronic Innovation Lab, a national pilot laboratory at the University of Agder, in cooperation with the industry. I would like to ask the Minister how the government will follow up the inter-political consensus on that remark. Today, Norwegian enterprises have to travel abroad to test their technological innovations. England and several Eastern countries build pilot testing facilities to attract businesses and investment. The problem is that when the supplier industry has to leave Norway to test its products, it helps to weaken the skills base, and there is a risk that some of its competences may also be transferred. Such a lab will be a national event, and we have to get started already in 2015. For that to happen, the government must grant money in the revised budget. The Labour Party has already followed up on our proposal in the budget. Industry does not have long enough patience to wait for the government to put in a fissure layer where industry takes the greatest burden. I expect the government to follow up on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1948	Norway now has a history of nearly 50 years as an oil and gas nation. In this sector, we find many of our most competent workers, and the supplier industry employs around 250,000 people together. This is a very important contribution to our overall value creation. It also contributes to the development of industry, technology and society, not least along the west coast, where e.g. the maritime cluster on the Sunnmare added to thousands and is a great and important knowledge base. In total, Norway's largest industry is missing the very sale of Norwegian oil and gas. Such an important industry needs to ensure that policy-makers have a strong framework. It is so great that the representative Henriksen invites Stortinget and the Council of State to discuss this. As the interpellant points out, the fall in demand from the petroleum industry is particularly affecting the supply industry. When the investment rate of the oil companies in development, operation and maintenance declines, the supply industry is severely affected by demand for the products and services they provide. The concept of ‘cost/benefit’ is now given greater and greater space by the operators. An area that particularly suffers from it is health, environment and security. This is relevant in this debate to show that things are related. HMS work in the petroleum industry is primarily about minimising the risk of oil extraction. An important effect of this is, of course, that it generates many jobs in maintenance, protection and rescue work, which is a central part of the supplier industry. The Petroleum Company is generally the hallmark of systematic work to reduce the risk of accidents, both for humans and for the environment. A well-functioning cooperation between responsible actors and a strong monitoring body is and has been a decisive factor in today’s situation. The challenge is to continue with the positive developments we have seen in the last ten years and to facilitate further improvements. Although there are very few accidents at work, deaths and major accidents, there is a potentially high risk of accidents in the petroleum industry. Therefore, it is serious that we now, as a direct consequence of what we are discussing here today, hear from several quarters that the HMS work is suffering from cost cuts. One example is the safety training of emergency personnel. In addition, there are many challenges to maintenance. Our installations are getting older, and the demand for preventive maintenance is increasing. Some of this is HMS-critical. This dilemma rises particularly in bad times in industry. Most of us are certain that one should operate cost-effectively, and there is probably a need to operate more cost-effectively than what we have used to with high oil prices. But we also have to make it crystal clear that we're going to maintain the high HMS and quality requirements. The need to cut costs cannot be met by HMS. In a debate here in the Chamber in November, we discussed this with the Minister of Labour and tried to make it clear whether the government is as supportive of this principle as the Stoltenberg government did. Our ambition was clear: Norway should be world-leading within the HMS in the petroleum sector. This ambition disappeared from the Government’s letter of allocation to the Petroleum Authority for 2014. It leaves the impression after we have discussed this in Stortinget, it should be that it is by chance that this ambition is drawn away. But the Labour Party isn't completely over-exploited about it. I hope that the Minister of Oil and Energy will help to remove the doubts that the government has created among those who have joined the industry, that Council of State Lien can state here today that it is not part of the government's response to the challenges in the petroleum sector, and that the government will not legitimize to ease HMS requirements as part of the cost cut on the socket. The key to high value creation, competitiveness and even employment in the supplier industry is still technological development and even activity, an industry that, with all its jobs, value creation and competences, is very important, especially for the Western world – and therefore also for the rest of the country. The Labour Party expects the government and the bulk of the population to take this difficult situation into account and to take action to prevent the representative Henriksen from calling a ‘crude stop’ in the petroleum industry from doing permanent damage to the supplier industry and the economy otherwise. A very good start will be if Councillor Lien gets his colleague Eriksson to stop cutting the rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1971	Like previous speakers, I would like to thank the interpellant for a good and important interpellation and a debate that the Storting should take. In the last few months, the media has been heavily new to Norway's largest industry, and rejecting this as a black paint is probably none of us earned. This is noticed along the coast, but also in the hinterland, where our petroleum industry has significant activity and employment. Locally, in my homelands, in the operating environment of the Norwegian Sea in Stjørdal, we have already seen the consequences of the tone-provoking actors with cut and alert cuts, and what happens affects and affects many in Trøndelag, even outside the industry. The large companies set up a comprehensive savings programme. I also feel that part of the picture is a significant willingness of the actors to look at their own costs. The strong growth in investment in recent years is, of course, part of the picture. And the thing to remember when you talk about cyclical industries is that it goes up, and it goes down, but it's important to have a clear picture of the uphill that's a little bit further ahead, when the downhill starts, because here we're dealing with very critical skills chains. The supplier industry thus needs active authorities because this industry is dependent on Norwegian missions. There is no doubt about it, because new buildings form the hub of the supplier industry. The Norwegians must have control over costs, capacity, competence and quality, and when the Council of State states that he should have an offensive role, talk to the actors and agree on the solutions that exist, it commits, and then perhaps Christmas is the wish for an opposition present. Industry is constantly changing. Better interaction both within companies and in the industry needs to be more cost-effective, while maintaining high HMS and quality requirements. The frustration surrounding contract losses to the rest of the world regarding Statoil's expansions has been great, and the Johan Sverdrup field is becoming exciting and important, especially for those of us who come from regions where large parts are still produced for fixed installations in the North Sea and in the Norwegian Sea. Then KonKraft has submitted reports that have shown consensus between the parties in the industry on how to ensure the competitiveness of the Norwegian base. They've been transferred to the department, and then it's the energy and the will there that becomes a little bit crucial. Of course, we who sit on the Stortinget are occupied by the companies that have addresses in our home countries, but it is up to the government to be extra at the front of this entire significant industry for Norway as a nation, and not least for the competence we also export. One of my partners and my good committee colleague, Magne Rommetveit, was involved in the visit of the Transport Committee to South Korea, and it may have been a little late when he insinuated that it was the new government that was responsible for Statoil being there with 400 men – I see him shaking his head – but it is a part of a picture that we have to take over when large new construction contracts are to be published, because, as I said initially, new buildings are the hub of this industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e1988	I would like to thank you for a good debate. I'm a little disappointed, I have to admit, because it seems that the government and government parties don't want to take the lead in dealing with the situation we're in. That's what I wanted us to get signals on here now. There is nothing new in what is said by the government, it is a continuation of the lines laid down in the petroleum policy, and we shall continue them. But we also need to be aware that we now have a situation that requires extra attention and action beyond what we talked about in the kerosene message. I have put forward several proposals here. We don't have any performance associated with these proposals. I can add another proposal, which came from NITO, which was sent to me today, where they call for the government to set down a sample, preferably composed of parties, which identifies the situation in the petroleum and supply industries and the measures that can be taken, not least to balance the fluctuations in the level of activity. Maybe it's a trick to hang that analysis work on which the representative called for Elvesuen. Then I feel the need to clarify a few things – first to Statoil and dividends. Statoil is one of many companies that have high dividends and that are struggling to raise money for investment, so that situation is not special for Statoil. What I think is that within the ownership policy that we have adopted, which is going to continue as it has been adopted, there is a ownership dialogue, and I suggest that the Council of State also address the issue of the level of dividends and future returns in connection with the so-called capital discipline that is being practised now. Then there's the question of studying, where the representative Tina Bru both in the budget debate that concerned the field of the Ministry of Oil and Energy, and here, this refers to as if there was an instruction to Statoil to do wells. I just don't understand how she gets to that idea, because I never said that. On the contrary, my idea is that here both industry and the Petroleum Control Group can compose a campaign in which the resources available now are jointly used to do a work that is necessary and with which Ptil has mapped and seen problems. Finally, to internationalisation as a solution to the problem: I do not think that will work so well. The problems we have on the Norwegian pedestal will also spread to other pedestals, because this is an international problem. We should use the distinction we have with tripartite cooperation and with the government in management to work our way out of the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2001	Let me thank you for what I seem to have been essentially a good debate. On health, the environment and safety, I want to say that I think we should be proud that, in close dialogue with all the parties on the base, we have developed a good and tight code that we will of course maintain. Therefore, I am pleased that Ptil has said that they will follow the cost cuts closely, and that they have so far not made any findings indicating that the safety level on the Norwegian base is threatened. Then there are many of the Workers' Party's representatives who have talked about the need to invest more in research. Now you should be very happy to have a new government that has increased the budget for just research and development in the petroleum industry in both of the last two budgets – for the first time in ten years. Then I am pleased that so many today – especially from the Workers' Party – have expressed the need for a stable and predictable framework for the industry. I have argued for this long, even in ours. It didn't get as big a hearing that time. So I want to say that some of the most important government and government can do to maintain the activity in the industry is to make new areas available to the industry. That is why we are now working on both the allocation in predefined areas and the 23rd concession round. In particular, the 23rd concession round will mean a great deal to the industry, and it will not at least be a promise for North Norway, which I note has not been represented in today's debate, unless the President exempts the Council of State, which is Northernland. Then I want to remember Johan Sverdrup again. The representative of Kjerkol is quite right – new buildings are important, not least for apprentices on Norwegian soil and for industry as such. That is why I am pleased that there is now such a great deal of attention around Sverdrup. If Sverdrup had been exposed, the supply industry in Norway, not least in the Nord-Trøndelag – represented by the representative Kjerkol – would be in front of far tougher conditions than they are today. Sverdrup will provide employment, value creation and ring-effects in More and Romesdal, in Hordaland, in Rogaland, in the Lands and not least in Trøndelag. With regard to these contracts that have expired, I remind you that we are part of international agreements. We have the EU, we have the WTO, we have other agreements that underlie this work. I would like to remind you that at the end of the red-green reign six out of six projects – there must be a new record – were sent out of the country. I did not hear many calls from the representatives of the Workers' Party about increased pro-activity from the authorities, but now I note that the pipe has received a completely different sound. I am pleased that the representative Henriksen says that the Workers' Party wants an even and high activity on Norwegian pedestal, and that it does not come about by itself. Neither does it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2020	That is when the debate is on case No. 7 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2034	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose to give rise to six lines of reply following statements by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2043	First of all, I would like to begin by commending the proposers for the proposal, which sets out on the agenda a task in which Norway contributes many different resources, including: a significant increase in the quota for asylum seekers and quota refugees and resources in neighbourhoods for the conflicts. Norway has the competence and resources to help refugees who need it the most. The Committee also stresses that Norway has taken, and takes, responsibility for contributing to the reception of persons who both need protection and may also need medical treatment. Norway makes a significant contribution to helping refugees in the neighbourhoods of conflict areas. The situation in Syria has evolved into one of the worst humanitarian disasters since World War II. As many as more than 190 000 may have been killed since the conflict broke out in 2011, and the number of refugees to Syria's neighbouring country has passed 3.2 million. The number internally displaced is 6.5 million, and a total of a little over 10 million people, about 50 pst. the population of the country depends on humanitarian aid. If we are to help as much as possible with the efforts we are making, we must also accept a large number of Syrian refugees to Norway and provide support within Syria and neighbouring countries. Norway has contributed over 1.7 billion. aid to Syria and the region since the start of the conflict and is one of the most important humanitarian donors for the relief work in Syria and the neighbourhoods. Over 1.3 bn. This includes humanitarian and development assistance to Syria and neighbouring countries. It is essential that Norway also assist neighbouring countries that accept large refugee flows from Syria, and Norway is one of the countries in Europe that receive most quota refugees from Syria in 2014. The Committee has wanted to underline and commend the important efforts of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees and Voluntary Organisations to avert unworthy conditions for the many refugees and internally displaced persons in and around Syria. For the vast majority of refugees, the efforts of neighbouring countries, combined with contributions from international society and non-governmental organisations, are a prerequisite for survival. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees stresses that Norway has made a major contribution to international solidarity and has responded to the Commissioner’s recommendation to accept Syrian refugees in need of protection by doubling the quota of refugees for 2015. In 2015, Norway will place 2 120 seats at its disposal, and the High Commissioner expresses great gratitude for Norway’s valuable contribution to the increase in asylum and residence. It's a very valuable contribution for some of the world's most vulnerable refugees. Since 2014, Norway has taken the lead as one of the very first countries to settle acids. The annual fixed rate of resettlement in Norway amounts to 1 120 places. In 2014, Norway’s quota increased to 1,620 places, allocated to 1000 places for Syrian refugees. With Norway making 2 120 seats available in 2015, Norway will have 2 500 people affected by the situation in Syria by the end of 2015. Norway is also one of the Commissioner's biggest financial contributors. These are economic resources that make a great deal of use in the neighbourhoods of the Syrian conflict, as well as resources that help far more than a place of residence here at home can do. This will continue in Norway — both parts, and we have increased them considerably. One of the Committee's majority points out that Norway accepts 1 000 quota refugees from Syria. In absolute terms, only Germany and Sweden are accepting more. Our goal is to help as much as possible with the efforts we make. This means that we will receive a large number of Syrian refugees to Norway, but our efforts will help even more through the assistance we provide in the Syrian and Syrian neighbourhoods. We're going to continue and increase the extraordinary quota for Syrian refugees next year. The targets for the UN High Commissioner for Refugees to resettle and relocate 30,000 Syrian refugees in 2013–2014 will be achieved with a good margin, and Norway has been an important contributor. Of the refugees we accept to our country, and as we have already accepted, there are many with medical needs. It's estimated to be about 100 already, and we continue to accept them. Of the refugees – quota refugees and Syrian refugees – who come to our country, the need for both physical and mental medical treatment will be present, and, in line with everyone who lives and lives in our country, it must be an individual treatment. We're going to keep doing that, and they have the same rights as other people in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2066	Some time ago, I met the UN High Commissioner for Refugees in New York. It was a meeting that made a very strong impression. Already then, he characterized the situation in Syria as the worst humanitarian disaster since World War II. It hasn't improved since then. The rapporteur explained the difficult situation in Syria, but I can add that in large areas warring parties are deliberately preventing vital humanitarian aid from coming up. We cannot be silent witnesses to this injustice, and, as we discussed in case no. 2 today, several countries in the region face major challenges in dealing with the refugee situation. It is therefore an overall committee that is behind the wish that we should help as much as possible. It is therefore also agreed that the efforts we are making, both by accepting a large number of Syrian refugees to Norway and by providing support within Syria and neighbouring countries, are important. When Norway refused to accept the 123 quota refugees, the government showed action. This rejection must be in line with the cooperation agreement in the foreign field between the government parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party. See section 4.4. 24 states that ‘priorities should be given to quota refugees with the greatest chance of successful integration’. After all, accepting the group of refugees we are talking about here that UDI describes as sick, vulnerable, disabled, children and bomb victims is not the dream scenario for successful integration. This selection represents a shift in Norwegian policy for the Workers' Party – a shift in the wrong direction. Despite the fact that the current guidelines adopted in 2010 under the government of Stoltenberg II provide for such a priority, Norwegian policies and practices have been followed by the High Commissioner for the request of refugees. The fact that the Progress Party is responsible for another policy is nothing new, but I think it is both spectacular and disappointing that parties such as the Right, Left and Christian People's Party actually accept this shift. They should have agreed to the request from the High Commissioner. The Labour Party voted in favour of the request decision in June, where the Stortinget asked for an assessment of how many more Syrian refugees we could accept in 2014 and 2015. In addition to an estimate of a number of challenges and a proposal to continue the year’s level of refugees, the government is not included in the Grand Duchy’s assessment. We voted in favour of that proposal because we realized that there was an invitation to cooperate with the government on a more offensive policy when it came to the refugee situation in Syria. Obviously, the government will not cooperate on this. That is why we support the proposal that the government should make sure that the quota refugees in question have an acceptable humanitarian situation and get the help they need. The Syria crisis is drawing on us to be long-lasting. There is a need to develop a longer-term plan for the whole region. The UN overall plan emphasises the need for coherence between humanitarian aid and long-term development assistance aimed at neighbouring countries and Syria. The war in Syria is taking place in Europe's immediate neighbouring country, which is why many Syrians are also fleeing to Europe. This crisis is not living in a vacuum. In view of the situation in Syria, which does not occur in a vacuum, the Labour Party calls for more initiatives from the government to help address the situation there and in neighbouring countries around it, such as Lebanon, which is struggling to deal with the huge refugee flow they have to accept. There are challenges related to the flow of refugees across the Mediterranean. It is a discussion that we should take initiatives in relation to burden-sharing in Europe. I believe that the dramatic situation we had in the Balkans in the 1990s should also form the basis for how we should take a single European initiative to tackle the difficult situation we have. In the 1990s, Norway received 8 000 refugees. I welcome the fact that the government is also taking an initiative in the European arena, so that together we show solidarity and can make a substantial contribution to resolving the situation in Syria, which does not seem to be getting better. Finally, we do not want a discussion on the guidelines for sorting and receiving quota refugees in Stortinget. It's the government's privilege to determine them. I am pleased that they are continuing the guidelines adopted by the government of Stoltenberg. What I'm not happy about, as I've also mentioned in my post, is that the political will to give priority to Syrian refugees is different. We shall debate that in this Chamber and challenge the government – that is our privilege. I also deal with the proposals that the Workers' Party is behind on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2089	The representative Eirik Sivertsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2092	The refugee situation in Syria is the worst since the Second World War, and a total of 10.8 million people, about 50 p.m., of the country's population depend on humanitarian aid. These refugees are totally dependent on help to survive, and I am therefore pleased that Norway has contributed over 1.7 billion. aid to Syria and the region since the conflict started. With such a huge amount of people on the run, it's obvious that the great plurality has to be helped in the vicinity. Norway is one of the largest humanitarian donors for relief work in and around Syria. Over 1.3 bn. of which, humanitarian and development assistance to Syria and neighbouring countries. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees recently reported that 1.7 million Syrian refugees are at risk of losing access to food as a result of economic challenges in the UN Food Programme. We are talking here about a potential humanitarian disaster. We know that we can save 28 times as many refugees in the vicinity as we can for the cost of busing one refugee in Norway. We have a clear, moral duty to save the most possible human being, and then the main focus is required to be help in the vicinity. It is a myth that Norway does not take its share of the responsibility for busing Syrian refugees with medical needs. A whole of 130, or 13 pst, of the refugees that Norway accepts, have different medical follow-up needs. Although the clear majority of Norway's contributions are in the vicinity, the current international agreements also oblige us to accept quota refugees. However, it must be pointed out that Norway has integration challenges, which must also be taken seriously. There are still more than 5,000 refugees in line for reception, and many have long seats there. About 100 of these require medical treatment and follow-up as a result of war injuries and trauma, despite the fact that this government bused more refugees in the year than the previous government. The situation in Syria is very serious, and I'm glad that the government is doing its utmost to ensure that Norway helps to help the most refugees possible. Although Norway will already take its share of responsibility for Syrian quota refugees, with 1000 people in 2015, we are forced to avoid a humanitarian crisis for the vast majority by providing adequate assistance in the neighbourhood.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2105	I want to start by thanking SV for taking up an important matter and putting the search light on some principle that it is easy to get in this room. What's happening in Syria now is a great tragedy. I've heard numbers of over 200,000 killed until now. We see that there will be destabilization in the whole area because neighbouring countries accept refugees, and the situation becomes very demanding. I agree that supporting in the neighbourhood is the most important thing, and that's perhaps where we get the most out of the funds that we have at our disposal. But as far as the principle is concerned, for the Christian People's Party, there will never be any question of whether quota refugees have poor or good health or need health care. Human dignity is not graduated by functional level, and we believe that in refugee status it is a matter of course, regardless of the health situation, that one follows the principles that apply to the admission. As far as the United Nations selection criteria are concerned, they are already of such a nature that they had picked out 123, and the Christian People's Party cannot understand that the government would think of omitting them with that justification, if that's correctly perceived. In the case of other criteria, they are still the same as for the previous government. Norway is one of the countries that receives the most quota refugees from Syria — in fact 1 000 in 2014 — and has provided assistance, as has been rightly said, in over 1.7 billion. kr since the conflict started down there. Now the government, in cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party, continues the extraordinary quota from last year, plus that we're increasing by 500, and that's quite extraordinary in European context. But for the Christian People's Party, we would like even more people to be admitted. In 2012, there were 1,200 quota refugees, in 2013 there were 1 120, in 2014 there were 1,620, and in 2015 there will be 2,120 quota refugees. After the red-green period, there has been a significant increase in the quota that Norway helps by entering the country. It's true, as it's said, 130 of those already admitted have medical follow-up needs and get the help they need here in the country. As far as the criteria are concerned, it is a matter of course for the Christian People's Party that health should not be a justification for refusal, but that it should be an individual treatment. When the UN Commissioner for Refugees brings us candidates, they have already come through the loop, they are not asylum seekers, they have a UN-approved refugee status. Then, in our opinion, we will be able to accept them. For us, it is a natural principle, and there we support the justification in the SV's proposal. With regard to modern times, in our day, we have four international crises, four level three humanitarian crises. It hasn't been so bad since World War II. We could, as I said, plan an even higher quota, and we believe that in terms of intake criteria, there must be no health issues. I would very much like to make that clear. But I'll also find out that the Christian People's Party has now joined and negotiated a 500-plus quota, and there might be a lot more than 123 there will be room for, if there's a need for it. We believe that if the UN Commissioner for Refugees comes up with a number that may have to be much higher, we are able to accept it now, within the agreed quota. The Christian People's Party will closely follow the criteria, and we will not accept, but will try to influence as best we can, that health is used as an argument for not helping people in extreme distress.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2124	There were strong reactions when, earlier this year, we rejected 123 of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees' allowances requested us to accept, on the grounds that family members were ill and needed additional health follow-up. There were legitimate reactions. These were people who could not be properly followed up in the refugee camps they lived in. The government was based on the guidelines they had inherited for the reception of quota refugees. In addition, they considered that the municipalities did not have the capacity to receive these refugees. The fact is, until now, we have been dealing with the United Nations selection. The centre party was among the parties that demanded that more money be put on the table, so that, in addition to helping in the neighbourhoods of Syria, we could receive more quota refugees, and so that we would not, for economic reasons, reject them as proposed by the UN High Commissioner to Norway. The representative proposal we are discussing today is proposing proposals that SV's representatives believe will rectify in the spring's handling of the receipt of quota refugees from Syria. The centre party said from now on and shares the proposalers' wish to put in place guidelines and practices that make it impossible for us to get in the same situation again. The centre party has also taken the consequences of this spring's debate. We have spent money in our alternative budget for 2015 to increase the reception of quota refugees and have added additional funds for the health follow-up of those who need it. Of course, the state provides extra resources for those who settle for those who have extra needs. I note that the majority of the Committee believes that there is no need for a reassessment of the reception of the 123 Syrian refugees who were rejected by Norway, because many of them have subsequently been taken care of in other countries. It is good for those for whom good solutions have been found, but there is still a need to go a new round to be sure that there have been found acceptable solutions for everyone. Together with the SV and the Workers' Party, we therefore promote a proposal that ensures a review of the situation for those who were rejected in the first place. Given the goodwill of all parties, I am disappointed that this proposal does not have the majority of committees behind it. In particular, I am surprised that the Christian People's Party and the Left will continue to reject quota refugees in need of additional health care. I share the intention of the SV's proposal to accept quota refugees with a high need for assistance in 2015. However, it is not natural for the centre party to introduce exact figures for this and therefore does not support proposal No. 6 from SV. The representative proposal also proposes that the Storting should be presented with new guidelines for the selection of quota refugees. The Parties agree that the guidelines should be reviewed and amended. Reference is made in the attitude to UDI opinions, which consider that there is reason to increase the number of allowance refugees on the medical allowance. The Centre promotes its own proposal asking the government to draw up new guidelines, but we do not want to change today's division of labour between collapse and government by presenting and adopting regulations and guidelines by the Stortinget. We assume that a request for a change to today's guidelines will be followed up, if the Storting believes it is necessary. I would like to take up with this the proposal of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2145	The representative Heidi Greni mentioned the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2148	I would like to thank the proposers for the proposal and for their commitment to the matter and not least the case rapporteur for a good report. So it's interesting when you get a little bit in the queue, that a lot of this is taken up earlier, but what we're at least sharing is that Norway takes its responsibility. We are one of the biggest contributors, and we have a moral duty to help. On the other hand, I am a little surprised by the contributions of several people here, because the fact is that we are now ruling according to what the government of Stoltenberg has adopted. Then I hear from this pulpit again – not so different from a debate we had a little week ago – that this is not what has been adopted, but that it is the practice. There must then be a whole new understanding of how to clarify a decision, because from my point of view it has been relatively rigid until now. Then I am a little surprised by the representative Sivertsen. which is now so clear in many ways takes a distance from what he has previously been on. And that's exactly what we -- multiple games -- are trying to soften up. I would like to welcome Mr Sivertsen's representative to participate in this work, but what is going on today is what was adopted by the government of Stoltenberg in 2010. So it's not going to come from the fact that through the budgetary agreement, the Christian People's Party and the Left have just put in place 500 more quota refugees for next year, and that's more than what's been in the past. The total number of quota refugees is also larger, 2 to 120, which is significantly higher than in recent years. I also think it's worth noting. I also notice that of the 123 now mentioned, many have now received medical treatment. And I also share what the case rapporteur said, that it can't be that we're going to grade people according to the health situation, but it's clear that it has to be an individual treatment of each one. People on the run have a moral responsibility to take care of, and then we can't sort. We fully agree with that, and I also expect the representative, Karin Andersen, to agree with that. I have a great deal of understanding of the proposal that lies here, and I think it's timely that one also has that commitment around it. In conclusion, I would like to mention that it is a pity that SV did not get it through in the previous government that the Christian People's Party and the Left have now received. Then I think you might have started on a slightly different sheet than we did when we had to start it together.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2161	I don't know how many people have been up now and said that this is the greatest humanitarian disaster we've had since World War II, but it doesn't seem to make such a big impression. You think you've done absolutely enough, and you decided last year how much was enough when the crisis escalates. I believe it must be compared to who we are, how rich we are, how the situation is, and the extent of the crisis. So we have a humanitarian disaster, and not as the Progress Party representative says we can have one – we have it, we don't avoid it. Nor do I imagine that we avoid it with the SV's proposals, but the point of the SV's proposals is that we should be able to contribute more, so that other European countries also contribute more. That's what the United Nations cares about. In the case of the 123 refugees, one of the main reasons why SV took this up was that the government wrongly owed the municipalities and said that the municipalities could not accept them. Then SV started a survey in the big cities, with interpellations. There is a letter for this matter from the large municipalities that says yes, we can. In addition, an initiative was taken from the Professional Forum for Municipal Refugee Work, which showed that of the 85 member municipalities who responded to the enquiry, only eight had been asked if they could accept it. So you don't ask the municipalities, but you owe them and say that they don't have the capacity to accept those who are the most damaged. So this is the greatest humanitarian disaster. It's war. People get hurt -- that's what's war. It's also the case that in war there are people who are already sick or have disabilities, who suffer the most, and the kids. Then we must not interpret the legislation so that it is those who will not come. And that's exactly what the United Nations is asking us, that these are the ones that have to get out of the area, because there's no way they're doing any good in the areas around. It's not about helping here or there, it's about doing both. The situation in the refugee camps is disastrous. The situation in the neighbourhoods is disastrous. The borders are closed to several neighbouring countries. It's a disaster. And then rich Norway will sit and say no to those who are most damaged. It can't be that when we're going to accept refugees, it's the least affected by the war that's coming. It also leads me to the second point, which is about the criteria that we're going to choose. Yes, it is true that it has been so that this has been decided by the government before, but now this shows that it is not going well. Norway is a country that is very dependent and very concerned that the United Nations is going to have a great deal of influence. Norway must then be a country that listens to what the United Nations says in the main crises. When the United Nations says this, we can't have a system where the Norwegian big thing comes up and says no, we're leaving this to a Progress Party government. We know the answer to that now. They will say no to as many as possible, but the Storting needs to state that we are going to follow the UN, and that it is those with the greatest needs to come. We've received many before. Someone mentioned Bosnia, and we took 15 000. When it was Kosovo, it was 6,000. We succeeded because we saw that it was necessary to relieve the proximity. It is necessary not only to accept more, but also that we in the Stortinget now determine what principles it is that we should follow. The SV suggests that we should follow the UN recommendations on who needs protection. I have to say I'm surprised at both the Workers' Party, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, who are not in it, but who think it's okay that the government should have the opportunity to change this. Finally, this with families: it has not been promoted as a concrete proposal, but the government has discussed seriously that families split up should not come to Norway. If there's something happening in war, it's that families are being split up. It's one of the worst consequences of a war, and some of them are terribly vulnerable. I think that's how the risk of a lost father or son getting along is why the government says no, because that could be one more than the quota.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2181	Would the representative like to comment on SV's proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2184	Yes, President, I do.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2189	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2192	I want to comment on the main part of what was the last speaker's post. It has hailed criticism from the red-green parties both against the government and not least against the Christian People's Party and the Left in this matter. I must say that I am completely incomprehensible. It must be based on an obvious misunderstanding to think that today we have different withdrawal criteria than it has been before. So we don't. These are the same withdrawal criteria as when Karin Andersen's party was in government, which is used today. I think that a debate on such a serious topic as this is, should at least have the cleanliness in itself that one does not assume that things have changed that have not yet been changed. We don't know what it will look like at the end, but using as powerful words and expressions as some representatives have done here against the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Government, that's not the basis, and I think it's okay to start with. In addition, I would like to refer to the rapporteur's excellent contributions, where she explained the matter in a thorough and good manner. In addition, I would like to join in the descriptions that have been of the serious situation that refugees from Syria are now in. As I informed in my letter to the Committee, most of the 123 refugees have been promoted to other countries. Many have received the application, or applications are still pending. UNHCR has, inter alia: to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, Norway was granted a disproportionate proportion of the cases referred to persons in need of health-related follow-up. This was due to the fact that Norway was the first country to send an exit commission to Turkey. Norway, for its part, had already accepted many with the need for health-related follow-up from Lebanon and Jordan. This year we received approx. 130 Syrian refugees with health-related follow-up needs from Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey. I would like to stress that the UNHCR gives Norway praise. On 10 December, the UNHCR Regional Representative for Northern Europe, Pia Prytz Phiri, said: The UNHCR is deeply grateful for Norway’s important quota increase, which will help to protect and provide lasting solutions for some of the most vulnerable refugees. I want to continue the quote and pay attention to the following: Since 2014, Norway has led by being one of the first countries to resettle Syrian refugees. Many of these refugees are deeply traumatized or torture victims. The settlement of refugees is a voluntary task for the municipalities. We need to relate to information we get about the municipalities and their capacity to receive more refugees with high health-related follow-up needs. I value that commitment to the settlement of refugees that several municipalities have shown in the autumn. As we know, we are now going to increase the quota for refugees next year, and I hope and believe that that commitment will stay, and that we will have both quota refugees and several refugees from reception. But I also think it is special that this action from SV has not taken into account that there are already dozens of people with extensive health needs on reception, who are not being settled. That involvement of SV I think should also include them, and the involvement of municipalities should also include them. ==References== 30 of them have been in the receptions for a disproportionate period, without being resident. It is a serious situation for those it concerns. Therefore, I also think it is a little strange when SV gives the impression that there is only something that has been taken out of the air, that the municipalities do not have the capacity to settle, when the reality is that they do not actually contribute to the settlement of this demanding group. It's a challenge. But I hope we can do it even better in the future. As you know, some challenges have arisen that Turkish authorities do not issue exit permits to refugees who do not have valid Syrian passports. The government has addressed this on several occasions and at different levels, both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Europe have raised this several times, my Secretary of State has taken it up, and the embassy in Ankara is following the matter very closely. We received a final signal that everyone would be allowed to travel to Norway by 9 December, but this deadline has not been met. The Minister of Foreign Affairs will take up this matter again on his trip to Turkey tomorrow and do what is possible to help the refugees we have decided to come to Norway, to Norway, but unfortunately now it seems that there are about 220 refugees who are not allowed to leave Turkey this year. It's very unfortunate. Of course, the government will continue to follow up this matter carefully, and I hope for a quick solution. Of course, this is particularly important for those in need of health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2213	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2216	The representative, Mr. Hagesetter, said in his speech that the government is doing its utmost to remedy the situation in Syria. In the current year, the current government proposed fewer thousand quota refugees than the government of Stoltenberg. After negotiations in Stortinget, the pressure was pushed to increase by 500. In the revised national budget, the Labour Party proposed a Syrian billion to go both to increase the refugee reception in Norway and to remedy the situation. The parties voted against it. In our opinion, the request decision in Stortinget has not been followed up. The government chose to say no to the request to accept these 123 Syrians we accept today. In the draft government budget for 2015, the government proposes to continue today's level, but is – fortunately – pressured by the Left and Christian People's Party to increase that quota by 500. My question to the Council of State is, does the government really do its utmost? Is this the best you can do?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2223	I am tempted to answer only yes to that question, and especially when I see what kind of proposal the Labour Party has promoted in the same cases. We are now accepting more refugees from Syria than ever before. This Syria billion that the Workers' Party has begun to boast very much was a Syria billion that they took from other areas. So it's not a healthy billion, but it's a billion to be relocated from other areas of need. I don't think it's that much to brag about. Compared with other countries in Europe, we have done a lot. We've taken the total given approx. One, seven, bn. DKK in assistance to the neighbourhoods, SEK 1.3 billion. as humanitarian aid. We accept more refugees both relative and actual than all, most of the other countries in Europe. So the answer is that we're doing our utmost. The negotiations in Stortinget also show that there has been room for further investment, which the government naturally stands behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2230	It was an answer, but not an answer I need to thank for. It is a little special to hear the Council criticise the Workers' Party for prioritising the situation in Syria when the arrangement for the current year is actually about taking from the ordinary quota and prioritizing 500 of them from other areas, to Syria. It's okay when the government does it, but not when the Workers' Party does it – a slightly special attitude. The Council of State also used its efforts to highlight the rose of Norway from the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, but Dr Woodman, a senior health officer of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, called the rejection of Norway in view of accepting the 123, too shameful. At best, it is possible to nuance the rose from the UN. The argument for not accepting the 123 refugees was that the municipalities could not accept them. Then the question becomes to the Council of State: how many municipalities did they really ask to accept an extraordinary quota of refugees? What did they actually do to make sure that there was no capacity?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2246	So let me first say that the last question is about IMDi's activities that contribute to the withdrawal commission with the competence that they have. We have to listen to the signals they get from the municipalities. I do not think it is completely uneven, and remember that there are dozens of people in reception today with a need for health care that is not settled, unfortunately. It is not like you have thought that there has been a lot of vacant capacity that has not been there. Then there have been some municipalities that have later said that they still have the capacity – the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion has recently sent letters to all municipalities, contrary to what the previous government did, with questions as to whether they can not help to settle those who are already sitting and waiting. Some of them — approx. 30 – have been waiting disproportionately long. It is a great burden for them, and I hope that the heart of the municipalities also embraces these. Then there is a net quota increase in the number of refugees with this government and agreement in Stortinget – much higher than the Workers' Party has delivered.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2251	Just to make sure that I have understood this correctly: then I understand that the government is doing its utmost, and that we have now been told the level of ambition for Syria. It is clear from the first response of the Council of State, at least that's what I have understood. The second thing I have come to realize is that in the case of the 123 refugees who had to be refused and refused the request of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees – in the worst humanitarian crisis after World War II, which the representatives of the government parties have also been up here and described – they did not choose to make sure specifically whether there was a capacity there or not, based on an assumption that what was said earlier was actually sustainable. The question to the Council of State is: Have I understood this correctly?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2261	The answer is no. I think the representative will be happy to re-read my post and also the statements of the rapporteur, as well as my answers to these replies. Then maybe the perception would be a bit better. It is obvious that we are doing as far as we can to help help in the neighbourhoods and accept refugees in Norway – a combination that the government is committed to doing. I think we have done our utmost so far, but this is, of course, a situation that develops from day to day, there are more and more refugees, and the humanitarian disaster is getting bigger and bigger. It is obvious that the government will assess whether there are other measures that we can also contribute along the way in such a difficult process, both on their own behalf and in cooperation with others. Then I still think it's quite unmusical when the representative Sivertsen criticises the selection of Syrian refugees by the Electoral Commission, when it's his own criteria they've based this withdrawal on.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2268	The starting point for this proposal was that the government said no to 123 refugees who had health damage, on the grounds that the municipalities could not accept them. I ask the Council of State to explain what studies had been carried out on this very concrete matter. Because here the municipalities had not been asked at all. That's what SV took the initiative in the big cities, a big bid, and then it was the Professional Forum for municipal refugee work that did it, and it showed that this was not right. And then the state council can refer to the IMFI and it's people in reception, etc. Now, but the point is that IMDi's section manager, who is responsible for housing, says that they feel that the municipalities will extend far if they are specifically asked about this. What is the reason why the government does not ask?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2273	The premise on this question is quite strange. First, it's not the government that sits and treats these withdrawals, it's the withdrawal commissions that do it, based on the criteria set by the government. So it's not the government that decides that 123 should not come to Norway, I think Andersen's representative is familiar with that. The procurement commissions are broadly composed, with broad competence, and the information provided by the various contributors must be taken into account in this procurement. I also think it is a bit special when the representative Andersen says that we have not asked. But now, at least, we have done it – not the previous government – now the Minister for Children and Gender Equality has sent letters to all municipalities to see what kind of capacity they have, because there are already more people in reception with extensive health needs that no local authorities have so far wanted to live in. That's why I think it's a little strange to ask questions about whether one has done what is necessary, because one has at least worked to ensure that those who are already here are going to live in a municipality, and unfortunately has not succeeded.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2280	The reason why the question has been asked is that both the Council of State and the Prime Minister and the entire government use it as a reason, and it's very special that you haven't actually asked. SV is pleased that all the municipalities are now being asked, but those we have asked have said yes. It is true that many people have asylum recipients who should have lived – that is quite right. But then perhaps the Council of State could have a little conversation with its own party colleagues around the country who are saying no to settle refugees, because the main reason why refugees are not settled is a political resistance of the especially Advance Party in many municipalities around the country. But the point of this matter is that these large municipalities that have been asked have said yes to this enquiry. Interpellations have been recorded in local government. They have discussed it properly, and they have said yes. Doesn't that make any sense to the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2285	Once again, I think the premise of the question is quite strange. Today, it is voluntary for municipalities to settle refugees. Refugees are entitled to live directly in a municipality as a starting point. Then I am now in an area that is not initially assigned to the Ministry of Justice and Defence, but to the Ministry of Children, Equality and Inclusion. The IMDI has carried out the studies they think are necessary to provide the information they make in theutch commission. I just don't think it's possible to answer that question more precisely than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2290	Then we can go over to the second question, the criteria, and now the Council of State can't say that these are old criteria that they inherited from the previous government, because it just shows that this government has the full opportunity to change their sails, if they want to, but they haven't. The discussion here today shows that there is a great need to discuss this politically. What criteria should we apply? I have dealt with the political signals that have been given, both from the government and in the Memorandum of Cooperation, where some of these issues have been clarified, among others. the desire for more of those who are less damaged and who are thought to be the most easily integrated into society to be given priority over those who are most in need. SV wants here a principle view that says that it is the UN selection of refugees that will form the basis for the selection of those who are being settled. What is the counter-argument of the Council of State against following such a line?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2299	The extraction criteria used are those for which SV was passed in government. We're now working on new extraction criteria. It is part of the cooperation agreement between the government parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party, and therefore there will be a broad political discussion among the four parties on what should be the withdrawal criteria for the future. Until new criteria are in place, it is the criteria for which SV was passed by the government, which form the basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2304	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2309	I have noticed that many other resettlement countries have carried out withdrawals of refugees in Turkey during the second half of the year, i.e. acids. The High Commissioner has confirmed that most of the cases for the 123 refugees that Norway did not receive have been subsequently promoted to other countries, and that the cases have so far been either granted or continued to be dealt with in these countries. It has been mentioned that settling refugees is a voluntary task for municipalities. There are 5 000 people waiting for housing in Norwegian reception. Around 30 people with high health-related needs for follow-up have waited disproportionately long, for many of the years when the red-greens crashed. The Directorate for Integration and Diversity has recently contacted the municipalities that have now offered to accept acids that did not come from Turkey, with a view to resettlement of those individuals from reception. It is worth noting that the municipalities that have signed up do not do so in addition to the framework to which they have committed themselves, but within the framework to which they have committed themselves. It is quite strange to hear the debate that is now going on that there should be rapporteurs out there who have free capacity within medical treatment and within their quotas, who do not raise their hand and say: we would like to accept, but we are waiting to be asked. It is with shame that after eight years of red-green control, more than 5,000 were received, many of whom were in need of medical assistance, and some had waited a long time. The red-green government didn't take any initiative at the time that all the municipalities were asked – now they are – and they didn't get any rapporteurs who raised their hands and said they had capacity. And so today we have a debate on the same criteria that we're following and that are now being evaluated in the ministry. We even accept several acids and try to have an individual treatment and ensure that those with special medical needs, who have waited incredibly long – 130, of whom 30 have been sitting there for a very long time – are treated. The 123 who were refused treatment in other countries. The Asylum Institute is a very important tool for providing protection to people who are in real danger, and it must not be abused in any way. Norway is going to fulfil our international obligations, and we are going to help the refugees. Asylum status shall be granted following an individual treatment and thorough evaluation of the application. Migration puts Norwegian society to the test, for whatever reason, but we tolerate it, and we will be put to the test – not least regarding the sustainability of the Norwegian welfare state. Therefore, it is important that we have this individual treatment, and that we are able to accept and provide help – as we do – to those who have special medical needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2320	I've learned from a former SV politician that we're going to choose with care what we're getting annoyed about, but the Central Party representative, Greni, went forward and said – right after my post – that she's surprised that the Christian People's Party is going to reject quota refugees who need health care. We've never done that, and we'll never do that. So it says a party from the opposition today to the Christian People's Party and the Left, which has expanded the quota by 500 refugees, and after I have said three times that health is not going to be a reason for rejection. So it says the same opposition that made the criteria that are being followed. This I think is incredible and wonder about it. If someone is wondering why the Christian People's Party does not support the proposal, it is among other things. Because we're starting to look at the criteria, and unlike the previous great crowd, the Christian People's Party is now getting some breakthroughs that we're very excited about. This also applies when we come to the question of criteria. Let me repeat for the fourth time: the Christian People's Party will not agree that health is the basis for rejection of individual applications. Moreover, I can assure those who say that we do not listen to what the United Nations and the High Commissioner say, that we do so, and we will take into account that and the conventions to be fulfilled, of course. It is interesting to hear how SV mates that they have not been able to settle the 30 who are already in refugee reception. Let's start there, and then there'll be more spaces available. Let me repeat what I also said: we don't know the number right now, but I think that of the 500 extras that we're going to take in, the number that need medical care can be even greater than 123. And let me repeat: for the Christian People's Party, the need for medical health care will not be the basis for refusing any stay. That's our contribution, and we're going to continue to stand for it when the criteria are set. We are going to press for that, and I think that will be the result of the contribution of the Christian People's Party and the Left in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2333	I took the floor because Karin Andersen tried to create the impression that the refugee situation in Syria does not impress us. I do not think that is unconstitutional. Of course it makes an impression. Of course, the Christian People's Party, along with the Left, also had this as a budgetary issue, and we got 500 more quota refugees next year. That means we're getting up to a level that's far higher than what it was when SV put in government. This is precisely because this makes an impression, and because we believe that Norway has to take a much greater responsibility than we have done. We need to take a much greater responsibility both in terms of how many we are going to accept and, of course, in terms of helping out in the neighbourhoods. The Christian People's Party would have wanted us to receive even more, and we would have wanted us to be able to help even more in the neighbourhoods, but that's what we got through to. I am pleased with the 500 extras, because that means that we might be able to accept far more than the 123 that are pointed out in this case. Otherwise I will support what my colleague Geir S. Tskedal says: for the Christian People's Party it will not be relevant to sort refugees out of health. It can't be a criterion. Human dignity does not allow discrimination on the basis of such criteria. I also agree with Karin Andersen that it might not have been quite fortunate to push the municipalities in front of them as an argument, because it may have been municipalities that were prepared to accept them. But with regard to Municipality-Norway and the ability to settle refugees, we don't get out of the economy. If there is one thing KS has been clear about, it is that there must be consistency between the government's expectations and what the municipality can bear. I expect that we will come back to this on later occasions. I also want to comment on what Eirik Sivertsen said in his statement, and which I fully agree with: Norway should use its position to invite the other European countries in terms of responsibilities – some use the word ‘burden-sharing’, but I like better the word ‘responsibility-sharing’ – in terms of the large flow of refugees to Europe. I believe that together we can contribute much more, and Norway should go ahead and take such an initiative and get such a discussion with the other European countries. I hope this moment doesn't go into the forgetbook.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2349	First of all, proposal No. 2 in the vote shall not be promoted because it has been replaced by proposal No. 6th@item: inlistbox The draft document refers to the opinions that have now been expressed by the local authorities of the major cities. What can be done when the refugee disaster escalates is, for example, what can be done? to contact some of the municipalities and ask for a special, extra effort for the sick Syrian refugees. That's what SV has requested. It is true that the Christian People's Party and the Left have now increased the refugee quota by 500 – and that is good – but the refugee disaster has escalated dramatically in the last two years. I'm not going to defend that it was good enough what the red-green government did, but now it's exploded. Then 500 is a bad answer to that, and it is a very bad answer when the government owes it to the municipalities – when we ask the municipalities, and for example. In this situation, the Municipality of Oslo is ready to take a reinforced responsibility for the settlement of Syrian refugees, including those with special needs. And similar decisions are taken in the largest cities. So if you really mean this, you could take that care. As far as the guidelines are concerned, this debate shows that what SV is proposing is nothing more alarming than that we are actually going to follow the UNHCR. Those they say need it, and need the most protection, Norway will accept it. That it should be necessary for parties to go rounds with the government, just explains to me that you want to tighten in more than that. Here you should change that. There is not much to be done with a government that always owes it to me that there was a code from the red-green ones there. They would have had the opportunity to change that. It is only now that SV asks for this to come up in Stortinget, because we see that you are tightening it even more. There are important issues that should be resolved politically. So finally, I'm glad that the Council of State is addressing this with the refugees who are in Ankara, who are not receiving help, and who Norway has now told us to accept. Some of them are very sick. They're acutely ill and need urgent medical attention. They have still not heard from the Norwegian authorities, some of them. This must happen, and the Council of State must ensure that they receive the emergency health care that is absolutely necessary there. I understand that the Turkish authorities are now making trouble to get them here, but then we have to make sure that the refugees we have said will come to Norway, on the quota we have, get emergency health care, so that they do not get destroyed say hello, or in the worst case actually die before they get to Norway. So I'm glad that the Council of State is following it up, and that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is going to take this up tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2362	The guidelines for the withdrawal of refugees provide the basis for making some priorities. But my point in my post was whether it allows for the kind of withdrawals that have been made. Nevertheless, Norway has had a tradition and political will to have a close dialogue with the High Commissioner for Refugees, and in practice has followed the requests made by the High Commissioner. You haven't tried them. That's what was the main point here. This is a political choice. Then it may well be that the government sits and decides which refugees are going to come to Norway or not. But it's a political choice whether you want to review such a request. It's not like the High Commissioner for Refugees is watering in the number of places for quota refugees. On the contrary, there is a major lack of it – it is a major crisis that we cannot solve. Norway does not choose to cooperate with the High Commissioner in the way we have done before. It's a political shift. Then I want to give praise to representatives of the Christian People's Party, who have made some important clarifications here. Let me first make it clear that we are very pleased that the Christian People's Party together with the Left has managed to push the government to increase the number of quota refugees – and not least to raise the debate on how important the quota refugees are. I am also very pleased with the clarification of these guidelines by the representative Tuskedal – which is from 2010 and which are obviously not good enough anymore, they will be revised – and that for the Christian People's Party it will not be acceptable that medical considerations should be such a basis for sorting. That's an important clarification. I wish the Christian People's Party every happiness on the way, and if we can help in that work, we'll do it. I may doubt that we will be invited to the negotiating table. So the representative Becquerad hoped that the debate on responsibilities in Europe will not be forgotten. I can assure you. We're going to follow that up. We have also taken such initiatives when we were in government. Unfortunately, we did not get there at that time. But that's the basis for keeping this potato warm, along with several other discussions we have to take in this hall. Migration and refugees in the world are not a declining problem; it is an increasing problem. It also happens in our neighbourhoods. We have major challenges in dealing with the housing situation in Norway. We have to keep solving that. We must also discuss how Europe should deal with influxes to its borders, with all the tragedies it brings, not least how we share responsibility. We're going to follow that up, and we're of course inviting all the parties to be in a good time for Norway to take its rightful place in that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2373	Let me first say a few words about the Syrian refugees who are in Turkey, as Andersen's representative says, has not heard anything from the Norwegian authorities. At least we know that it is part of those who have been in contact with the Norwegian Embassy. UNHCR is also in contact with some of them, and in our dialogue with Turkish authorities we have also been concerned with the health perspective, that they should receive the necessary health care while in Turkey, pending the completion of travel documents. I have to say I am really quite surprised that it has been so difficult to get this to. There are very many refugees who live in Turkey, and one would think that it was in the interest of all parties that the transfer of refugees went as smoothly as possible. Not only Norway is struggling with this problem, but Norway is at least very proactive in helping to find as constructive and good a solution as possible, and it is, as I said, a very strong political pressure to achieve it. So to the concrete municipalities that have now said they can make an extra effort, and that of course the government will follow up. As far as I know, the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion has already, through correspondence to all the municipalities of the country, sought to get a proper overview of what the municipalities actually have of capacity, both to settle those who are already in reception and waiting for residence, and also those who are taken out as refugees in 2015. Then I don't experience reality exactly as the representative Sivertsen does. He gives the impression that cooperation between Norway and UNHCR is poor. On the contrary, I have an entirely opposite view, that the cooperation between Norway and UNHCR is very good, and I also quoted recent comments from the head of the UNHCR department. I'm recording that the Workers' Party is now claiming to have a very strong focus on helping to increase the refugee quota, or the number of quota refugees. Sometimes history is a pretty good tool to see how strong you really are in the will, and in 2012, under the red-green government, Norway received 1,200 quota refugees. In 2013, Norway received about 50 % of its drugrelated deaths. 120 quota refugees. In 2014, there were 1,620 quota refugees, and in 2015 there will be 2,120. So it's probably right of the representative Sivertsen to give the Christian People's Party and the Left Honor for what they themselves were not interested in getting when they were in government. This is not a crisis that has arisen now. In September 2012, I believe to remember that there were about 3,000 new refugees from Syria every day. Then it was Sivertsen's party and Karin Andersen's party that ruled Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2386	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2400	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches by the main speakers for each group of parties and five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those who sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2411	While the North was impatiently waiting for the development of a better network, the Romanians were working on a bomb to make sure we got it. As payment, they received NOK 7 per hour – NOK 7 per hour. It happened this year, in Norway. Two Lithuanians worked 209,5 hours in Norway and earned NOK 3 400 – NOK 16 per hour. These are gross examples of social dumping. Unfortunately, we know that there are so many more. Last year, the Labour Inspectorate carried out 1,800 inspections on labour crime and social dumping. Most supervision is in the construction industry and in the overnight and catering industries. In 2012, more than 200 of the inspections were carried out immediately due to risks to life and health. It reminds us that labour-life crime and social dumping are more than wages, and it should tear down our souls when we hear that people have it like this at work. Overall, Norwegian working life is serious. It is a safe and good working life, with rules developed in common. It's our common working life. We do not accept threats to this working life. We do not accept that anyone will undermine this working life. We do not accept that someone will make our working life their own, with their own rules of play – or lack of it. The fight against crime at work is primarily about this: about humans, about the injustice committed against people. At the same time, if we are to meet the challenge, we need a broader look – a look at the backers, a look at the employers who believe they are threatened by them, a look at the sectors they think they are in danger, a look at the parties who know every day where the shoe prints. Crime is creative, unfortunately often more creative than what we are in this room. Crime can spread like the parasite it is, affecting seriousness and propriety. Therefore, it is offensiveness and forward-lookingness that must affect our job and our attitude. We refuse to lose. Work-life crime is the cause. Social dumping is the consequence. That we get less tax to pay common welfare schemes is the consequence. The fact that serious actors are at risk of uncompetitiveness is the consequence. The question is, can we do anything? We can and must. Let me therefore give praise to the red-green parties, who put the search light on this when they were in government. I'm glad that we have a political situation that is largely characterised by consensus in this area. I don't expect the civil side and the red-green side to agree on everything, but I expect that we can agree on a direction. We know the problem description. Now we're going to get on with the work. For example, I think we can all agree with the government's proposals for changes to the Working Environment Act and the Public Health Act on stricter penalties for breaches of these laws. That's fair. I think we can all agree with the importance of strengthening the Labour Inspectorate. We also agree on the importance of a high level of organisation and the proper functioning of tripartite cooperation. Action against labour-related crime needs to be developed in cooperation and in interaction with social partners. That is exactly why I think we all agree that the government is doing the right thing to cooperate with the parties in developing a strategy against labour-life crime. I record that red-green parties are not on the note about it, but it can only be because there was something positive about the government. In addition, it is important that we state that different agencies can cooperate more and better. There we know that there is an important work that has already been started. The government has also provided a tripled effort in terms of coordination and coordination. All these moments are important elements. But it's when it happens together that the force is greater. The fight against crime at work must be multi-disciplinary, multi-territorial and cross-political. With that, I look forward to the government's announced strategy on labour crime and having a constructive tone.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2437	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2440	We were told that the representative of Heggelund was tearing up in the cell when he heard about the examples of gross exploitation of labour. And then he talks about how important the Labour Inspectorate is in the fight against social dumping and the crime of working life. Yes, there is no way he trusts that the Labour Inspectorate is the tool to solve this whole problem, only the Labour Inspectorate gets enough money. I wonder what is happening in Heggelund's cell when he reads the answers to the question that is perhaps most relevant to the debate we have here today, the fight against labour-life crime – the response to the proposals that the government is now having on more temporaryity, etc. When the Labour Inspectorate writes that this proposal will make their fight against accidents, social dumping and crime at work difficult – does it impress the representative Heggelund at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2445	It is true that the government has made some proposals for changes to the Working Environment Act. We do that because Norwegian working life in general is a serious work life, and we know that in that working life there is a need for some more flexibility. If the representative of the Trettebergstuen had heard carefully after – she had really not had to hear so carefully after, either – what I said in my post, she would have heard that I said that another thing that is important in the fight against the crime of working life is a high level of organisation, strong unions and cooperation with the parties. We believe that local trust leaders will gain more power. I refuse to agree that if a local trustee gains more influence over working time agreements, it will lead to more crime and more social dumping. Rather, on the contrary – this will lead to a little more self-determination at local level.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2450	The representative comes with strong descriptions, descriptions that are given in a way that is as if these are things that a few years ago were not the situation in Norway. That's good. The representative says that one does not accept undermining the rules of the labour market. That's good. But where is the analysis? Where's the analysis of why it's going to be like that? One must, of course, analyse a situation and find the causes of a debasing development! If one does not analyse why it happens, one cannot put the right measures in place! What is the representative's analysis of why it has been so strongly described by the representative?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2455	I know exactly where the representative Lundteg will with his question. First, I want to remind you that I am pleased with the consensus that characterizes this question. That is also why bourgeois parties supported many of the measures proposed by the Red-Green Government in the previous period. But I know where the representative Lundteg will with his question. He wants me to say EEA, because that is the answer of the Central Party and the representative of Lundtigen to absolutely all the challenges that this country is facing. So my question back to the representative Lundtigen must then be: is it that if Norwegian businesses get it more difficult – which they would get if we had not been in the EEA – the situation in the Norwegian labour market will improve? And is it really so that we shouldn't be able to try to solve the challenges of work-life crime and social dumping in a room where people from different countries are allowed to travel across national borders to seek happiness and make a little more money? In that case, I disagree.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2460	I am pleased that the representative Heggelund in his post pointed so much to the social partners as important this spring afternoon. But can Heggelund give me a few more examples of what the representatives of the world of work should be doing in addition to what was referred to? Because that has not been a good tradition for the last year, among other things. with the work environment laws and stuff. And how will the representative strengthen trade unionism at the same time as there are more temporary additions, and thus, after all the solar panels, fewer trade-organized?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2465	Is it true that the representative Gjerstad believes that the trade union movement has not been able to express its opinion on various proposals made by the government in the last year? I have to say, in that case, I'm quite disagreeable. We at Stortinget have also had good meetings with representatives of both employers and employees. Those meetings have been exactly as I expected them to be: constructive, cosy and educational. But I don't follow the logic that's on the left hand side, that's to have a hearing before a hearing. It's to me a left-hand side logic that doesn't make sense. I am concerned that we have been struggling with the degree of organisation in Norway recently. We know that the trade union movement is struggling to recruit more people who may be local trust elected. That is why I think it is very important that the proposals for changes to the Work Environment Act that will give local trustees more influence.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2472	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2476	I'll be allowed to start by saying that I'm positively surprised at the first post of the representative Heggelund, as he recognizes the importance of social dumping and labour crime. I assume it's allowed to say that. I shall also say it again if the representative would make other posts in which I believe there is a positive input, but I am a little afraid that there will be no mass on my part. I think it's right to take that as a starting point, because this societal problem is so huge. We're talking about a move in our society that can undermine society's working life. It can undermine serious business. It is obviously undermining the working conditions of Norwegian workers today because they are being pressured by the far too low wages, and in addition, there is an estimate of crime, of the black economy, and even of trafficking in human beings. That's why I think it was positive that the rapporteur took the approach he did, by mentioning some examples that we've seen lately on social dumping, and I also want to underline the media's positive role in revealing it. This is no new problem. What's new is that the recognition is obviously as broad as we now got an illustration of. In our time in government, we presented three action plans against social dumping and crime at work, but that's not what the representative Heggelund said, because it broke a little when he came to the change of line. He said that there has been a great deal of agreement on the measures that have been implemented. No, the truth is that that's exactly what it hasn't been. I have stood here and presented some of the measures when I was Minister of Labour, and it was so that the most important and effective measures voted against the Right and the Advance Party. That's the reality that we've seen. That's exactly why I'm glad that the known problems that have been there for a long time now seem to be recognized by the two government parties. Our fight against social dumping has also been a fight against the Right and the Advance Party here in the Stortinget. Although the problem is not new, the parties are involved in the issue in a positive way. The beginning of the process we have now seen is the letter from the LO to the Prime Minister in ours, who received support from the NHO to a large extent — without necessarily complete duplication of action, but to a large extent still. The parties are engaged precisely because they see serious work in Norway being undermined. Then, after a long time, there was a meeting with the parties, where the letter from the LO was followed up in a meeting with the Prime Minister. I think it was Dagbladet who wrote that a country should be happy because one has such social partners that take as much social responsibility as the parties in Norway do. On that basis, and because of the small incident, we found it right to start working thoroughly on the Document 8 proposal that we are dealing with. For our part, this is in the extension of the three action plans we have put forward in the past, and it is the result of the meeting with both the leader of the LO and the head of the NHO, who was invited to participate and to make representations on what actions we can now take to meet the new loopholes found in the system. On that basis, we received written recordings from the NHO. We received written input from the LO, and as the work on the Document 8 proposal progressed, I would particularly like to thank the two, in addition to the National Association of Building Industries and the Joint Alliance, who have really made heavy contributions to this process. I refer to this in this context, I think, a brilliant example of the professional, political cooperation in Norway and the cooperation between the employees and employers' side in Norway, the document ‘Simple to be serious’, which the National Association of Construction has launched in close cooperation with its employees in the Joint Confederation. On that basis and with the input we have received, we found the basis for promoting 22 concrete actions, and the form in which they have been promoted is an invitation to the government to discuss the 22 actions and use them in the work that needs to be done to meet the challenges. There are some proposals that will just support the central role of the parties in the Norwegian model. I heard that the Scheel Committee – the much-mentioned committee that has looked at corporate taxation and other taxation in Norway – said that there was no good reason for the trade union deduction in the tax. Then Scheel and his selection have not read either Fafo’s large research report on NordMod, the Nordic social model, nor can they have read the report of the Holden III Committee, which then underlines the importance of the role of the parties in the Norwegian society for the Norwegian model in general and for measures against social dumping. That is why we point to strengthening the role of the parties as one of the most powerful steps towards meeting developments. It should be the responsibility of any government to try to contribute to the high level of organisation, both on the employer and employee sides. The same is true of our proposal for the public service scheme, where we say that we should perhaps ease the need for documentation, because it is an instrument that the parties have in place to meet the needs of social dumping. The same is true of the tripartite industry programme, which is a good example, as we have seen in several industries. In construction, we've seen it, and hotels and restaurants and shelters are industries where we're now running programs, which really seem to hit. Then the public sector has an important role to play – an important role because the public sector is a significant employer, but also because the public sector is a significant buyer of services and a significant bidder. Therefore, to help the serious actors, we propose that those who are to have tenders in the public sector should have 25 pst. self-production. They are simply because we don't want to develop – let's say – a mailbox company or the type of bidder that is essentially based on acquiring skills from others, because we know it's vulnerable to social dumping. At the same time, we propose that there should be a maximum of two stages in the contract chain. It turns out that the more terms there are in the contract chain, the more difficult it is to keep an overview, and the more likely it is to be to have underpaid labour. To the extent that there is a deviation from it, a specific justification must be provided. We stress the need for public tenderers to examine the seriousness of the companies submitting tenders. We believe that a serious factor that is very good to measure is the requirement for an apprentice clause, and if the presidency has not found anything new in this period, the Stortinget is an example of a company where an actual apprentice contract is required by those who are to have tenders here on the house. All municipal, county and state companies may be required to do so. One of the measures that I had the pleasure of proposing in my time was joint and several liability, that one is responsible if someone from the subcontractors does not get paid the salary they should have. It was very unpopular that time, but it's very popular among other things. in the Land Association of Construction, yes, so popular that they say it should also apply to builders. We have chosen to propose it to public builders, because we believe that public builders have the resources to ensure that those who are subcontractors of the tender have proper working conditions. These are some examples of the many measures that can be taken by municipalities, counties and countries to use as criteria to develop serious employment in Norway and to make it more difficult for the unprofessional. In that context, I would like to point to the municipality of Skien as a very good example. They have had a full review of their responsibilities and the purchase of services and have established clear criteria for combating social dumping and for strengthening the serious tenderers. So supervision is important. It is true, as the rapporteur initially said, that there is no disagreement about strengthening the interaction between public authorities. We see that as a continuation of the line that we stood for, and as a strengthening of supervision across etat boundaries. Nor are we against stronger sanctions for breaches of the law. We go beyond what the government did in the budget to strengthen it. I would like to stress that, in addition to establishments such as the tax haven, the customs office, the police and the Labour Inspectorate, which are most often mentioned, will for example: Food supervision is an agency that can contribute very much to revealing the unprofessional nature of the restaurant industry, for which we have seen a lot of examples. There is reason to support all such cooperation. In addition, we propose to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate. We also propose, and have put money into it, a separate tip and warning phone, for the most important thing to get to action against social dumping out there is actually that those who discover it have the opportunity to contact a place and get notified about it, so that the authorities can do something about it. In the same way, we are proposing – as a reference to the interpellation that was a little earlier today on the oil and gas sector – a strengthening of Petroleum Supervision. We had earlier, when we were in government, as ambition that we should be world leaders in health, environment and safety. Unfortunately, that ambition has removed the current government, but we believe that it is an area of savings that is now taking place in that sector, where there is particular reason to focus on non-health, non-environment, non-security, but also social dumping being allowed to develop. So cooperation is important. I have mentioned everything about the National Association of Construction and their cooperation with the Joint Confederation, ‘Simple to be serious’, and some of the proposals that lie there, we have included both in the draft document 8 and in our budget. It is developing the ID card scheme, which was unpopular when it was introduced but is currently in demand, and which should actually be improved in order to update the information better and to be more complete in the information. We are proposing several sectoral programmes. We have it in construction, cleaning, where the NHO Service has been a very good co-player. We need it in the hotel and restaurant industries, we need it in the fishing industry – we need it in several areas. Because it turns out that when the parties are engaged through an industry programme, we get results and social dumping is revealed. That is why we find it a pity that the government proposed to move the industry programme away from the department and to the Labour Inspectorate. The Labour Inspectorate shall play an important role in social dumping, but moving the industry programme where we see a lack of interest from the Council of State. Then we are in that situation now that the government and government parties say they see the problem, but so far the government has been passive or gone in the wrong direction. Cooperation with the parties is not, as the case-rapporteur said, a good example of how the government works. Cooperation with the parties is part of what the government has really changed its position on. There is no previous government, nor civil government, which has had such poor cooperation with the parties that the current government has, and I would like to stress all the parties, all the employers' organisations, all the employee organisations and other organisations that former governments, regardless of their colour, have actually used their skills to develop policies, but which are no longer part of them, but are perceived as enemies. We have seen this in the case of the permitting legislation, where the current state council, when he was a magnificant, criticized the then government for providing poor solutions in the permitting legislation, which could lead to increased use of temporaryity, as he said at the time. We're looking at it in the Working Environment Act. We are looking at the weakening of collective law, and we are looking at it as regards equal treatment of collective agreements with regard to the temporary agency directive. That's how the government says it sees the problem, but so far it doesn't look like the government wants to do anything about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2518	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2521	Then I will address the proposal that has been included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2526	The representative, Dag Terje Andersen, has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2531	I would like to thank you for the article. If you ignore all the time the representative Andersen doubted the intentions of the bourgeois parties in this matter – he thought we were too slow, too passive and too little – then I think it was a constructive contribution. But it can once again be more constructive than it was. I want to distance myself from the claim that you have not been active. That's why the parties have been involved in the development of the strategy against work crime, and that's why Gerd Kristiansen has said that it's a pleasure to note that the government is now listening to us and following up the recordings and plans. I see the proposals contained in the motion for a resolution tabled by the Labour Party. It says: ‘Evaluate the three action plans promoted and implemented by the Government of Stoltenberg II.’ When we had a budget debate last year, this was something that was haunted by the red-green representatives. Why did they change their mind?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2543	It's because we've focused on the recordings we've received from the organisations I mentioned. We take the input from the organized working life in Norway seriously, and one of the things that has actually been agreed on is that there is reason to look at the results of the reports that are there. When this was withheld last year, I know the reason for it. It was because it was perceived as an alternative to doing something. This is not an alternative to doing anything, it is one of 22 points, of which the 21 others point to action that is to be concretely implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2548	I record that the Workers' Party is committed to increasing the degree of organisation, and that it is so important that this theme is raised as the first point in the proposal. But if you are to stimulate an increase in the level of organisation, is it a good thing that the organisations are party-politically neutral, or, in a slightly different way, perhaps independent of the Workers' Party? Does the representative agree that there is an advantage with party-political neutral trade unions and organisations — especially in view of the goal of increased recruitment?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2553	This representative believes that it is beneficial for organisations to decide for themselves. I don't think the Storting should decide what the different organizations should think. But I would like to stress that when we take it up as a point in our action plan now, we are talking about all the employee organisations, and we are talking about all the employers' organisations, because there is no doubt that the well-organised working life in Norway and the good interaction with the authorities, which are now being challenged, are a major reason why we have as well-organised work as we do in Norway, and that is a significant reason why we have good finances and good productivity.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2558	The representative, Andersen, is genuinely concerned about the situation in the labour market based on his own professional experience, and there is a great deal of respect for it. The LO Congress in 2013 took the following decisions: ‘The EEA Agreement affects Norwegian working life and society through decisions taken in the EU. The LO requires Norwegian authorities to oppose restrictions on the right to collective means of fighting, the collective bargaining system and the right to national wage formation. ILO conventions, Norwegian collective bargaining agreements and Norwegian labour law must prevail over EU rules. Such priority must be clarified between the parties to the EEA Agreement.» My question is simple: does the representative Andersen agree with such a preference?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2570	I am very pleased – I must be allowed to start there – that the LO is clear that we need the EEA Agreement as a framework that provides opportunities for important Norwegian jobs to compete on the international market, where Europe is our very largest market. Then I think, when it comes to concrete matters, that there will be some issues where the representative Lundtigen and I disagree on what is being introduced into the European Union, and some issues where we agree. I think, for example, the temporary agency directive was one of those things. I thought it was right that it was introduced, I think the representative Lundtigen thought it was wrong. I believe that it has contributed to a more well-organised working life that we were introduced to the agency directive. The international agreements which oblige us, inter alia: Of course, from the ILO and others in which we are participants, we must follow. But then I would also like to say that we need to use the international network that the EU is, through our EEA agreement, for social dumping is an international problem, it needs to be solved in the international arena.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2575	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2579	Norway is a small country with small, tidy and transparent conditions. In general, the Norwegian model of society is based on good and functioning democratic principles. This is also reflected in working life. Norwegian working life is basically very good. The vast majority of jobs are characterised by a common will and a common desire to comply with laws and regulations. The Norwegian labour market is characterised by good cooperation and understanding between the parties – joint efforts towards common goals, and a common understanding that involvement in own employment, consensus, cooperation and participation improves both the working environment and productivity. These have been the main lines of Norwegian work and, fortunately, they are still. However, increasing globalisation and internationalisation bring pressure on the Norwegian labour market and also pressure on the working environment. The good cooperation and conditions we have in Norwegian working life are not as prominent in all other countries. Countries with which we have economic cooperation have a different culture of working life than we do. There are also a number of challenges in our main trading area – the EEA. Some of these challenges are best met in cooperation with our international partners, while other challenges are best met at home. As a result, we experience a change in both social and labour-life crime. This may be particularly evident in the light of several foreign actors in the Norwegian labour market. Consequently, it is important that Norwegian authorities closely monitor the situation and are prepared to take the necessary measures to combat social dumping and labour crime. The right-wing Party Government is ready to recognise the importance of combating crime at work and social dumping. The fight against social dumping is also reflected in the political platform between the Right and the Progressive Party. It says, among other things. that we continue to work towards social dumping by strengthening the Labour Inspectorate and evaluating the measures against unacceptable wage and working conditions that have so far been implemented and assessing new measures. Already in the 2015 budget, this is a priority task, with increased appropriations and proposals for joint action by the police, the tax administration and the Labour Inspectorate. But more money and more control are not enough alone. The punishment for the crime of working life must also be sufficiently strict so that it can have a preventative effect. As a result, the Progress Party is very pleased that the Right-Fremskritsparte Government has presented proposals for stricter penalties for breaches of the Labour Environment Act and the Public Service Act. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left are also committed to strengthening and further developing cooperation between official control agencies. The Right-wing-Fremskritsparte-Government proposes joint action by the police, the tax administration and the Labour Inspectorate. However, cooperation should not stop with these agencies; it should be possible to strengthen cooperation between several public actors, such as the public sector. UDI, Nav, Fire Service and Food Authority. Fortunately, we have already seen important and good examples of good cooperation between these agencies. The Progress Party is also of the opinion that the introduction of national minimum wages would also contribute positively to the fight against social dumping. Fortunately, this is an exception when labour crime is committed in Norway, and social dumping is also rare in Norwegian workplaces. But it's worrying that it seems to be an increasing trend. The reason for this development may be complex, but increasing internationalisation and migratory pressure, especially in times when economic trends are not so good, may lead to some actors crossing the boundaries of the law. The party welcomes the fact that several representatives are concerned with the issue of social dumping and that they promise this in a separate Document 8. We all have a common goal of combating crime at work and social dumping. Many of the points raised in the proposal will probably come back to the government. But it's important to remember that the government, after all, is doing this important job well. As a result, it becomes a little illogical to ask the government to start a work that has already started, and with which the government is actually about to finish. The Office of the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Local Affairs and the Ministry of Finance are already working well with a comprehensive strategy against social dumping and against labour crime. The Prime Minister has also had several meetings, including: LO and NHO on the issue, and the government will soon present a comprehensive action plan against labour crime and social dumping.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2602	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2605	Tor André Johnsen said he appreciates the fact that more people are occupied with social dumping. But I think he has forgotten that when the Stortinget dealt with the employment messages, all parties, apart from the Progress Party, thought that the work against social dumping is a major challenge in the field of working life. There it might seem that the Progress Party was most concerned about seeing doubts about the whole operation, and in general, the party has been opposed to most of the measures launched by the Stoltenberg government. But I hear that with the Progress Party in government, there are now promised new rates. Work on social dumping shall continue, tripartite cooperation shall be maintained and the Party of Progress shall cease to call LO leaders ‘pampers’. The last part of the game hasn't completely broken up, even though sometimes it gets a little bit confused with who belongs to what is the main connection. My question to Johnsen today is: is it a real recognition of the problem, or is it a game for the gallery? And is there really any measure against social dumping that the Progress Party is in favour of?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2614	There is absolutely no game for the gallery; there is no doubt that society has changed. Much has happened since the Workers' Party promoted its proposals and perhaps started much of this fight against social dumping. Unfortunately, there have become considerably more prominent examples of gross outrage. This is exactly why the government is working with an action plan. And as I said before, we're doing well on that plan and we've been working on a broad front with several departments, and we have an overall approach to the problem of limiting social dumping and labour-life crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2619	I noticed that the representative was busy arresting Andersen on it with a degree of organisation. If we go back to the employment message -- it's not more than two years since it came, and society hasn't changed that much in two years -- the Progress Party was the only thing that wasn't in a note that the degree of organisation should be increased. All other parties thought it was a good thing that the level of organisation increased, both among employees and employers. Does the Progress Party today believe that it is an objective to get more organised in the labour market, and does the representative Johnsen see the importance of an organised and regulated working life in the fight against social dumping?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2626	Now I'm not going to go in here and shoot at single points in a whole, important plane. We'll get back to that, and then we'll get a complete overview. Some measures are more important than others, and some are less important than others, so I won't go in and grade it right here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2631	The representative Johnsen took on minimum wages as an instrument of social dumping in his contribution. There are large areas of Norwegian work today that are unorganised and where there are no collective agreements. At the bottom of Aker Brygge, for example, it jumps. waitresses around the evenings with beer glasses costing NOK 98, and they themselves have an hourly wage of NOK 100. It is far less than the minimum tariff of the collective bargaining agreement. What's the minimum wage my representative Johnsen is reasonable in Oslo and in that industry today, if he were to put a number on it?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2638	I thank you for the question. I think maybe the industry and the example that the representative here refers to is actually a good example of why it would be important to introduce minimum wages. Then I am convinced that the level would at least be higher. But I can't stand here and on the kick define and decide or try to think about – at reading, I kept saying – the level of minimum wages in different industries. It won't be right for me to try to speculate in. But the point is that I think the minimum wage would contribute positively to preventing such examples, and you would probably get a higher salary than the one that the representative gave an example here.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2643	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2646	It's a very important thing that we're discussing today, and it's been a good piece before me. Fortunately, working life is serious, and there are few issues that are as serious as those relating to social dumping. But at the same time it is also that this has happened increasingly, and we have seen that the cases that have been revealed have been very rough. Social dumping, black economy and simply human trafficking and slavery have become a serious social problem, and no matter how big it is, the importance of combating it is very great. The Lime case is a frightening example of how serious the problem is. There is suspicion of both gross human trafficking, tax evasion, loan fraud, abuse of other people's identity, etc. Fortunately, to look at this from a judicial point of view, the National Attorney General has called on the police and prosecution authorities to investigate and investigate several issues in the field of labour-life crime, and I think that is high time. It is important that there are several cases at the highest level, and that several cases are detected. But I would also like to call for a change of opinion among consumers, because when you look at the estimates, which go up to 420 billion. kr in lost income for the government in black work, it shows that the amount can be very large. Buying undeclared work means making sure that there are people, employees, who are missing out on rights and protection, which Norwegian employment provides, as well as that it provides large loss of tax revenue for the state. Nor is it unlikely that buying black work indirectly helps to support prostitution, drug trafficking and money laundering, because we know that much of what is black work is also organised by networks. My claim is that there had been fewer people who had bought or used black work, if they really knew what it was. If the price is too good to be true, it's usually wrong. As Andersen’s representative pointed out, it is also important to strengthen the requirements of public purchasers to suppliers. The representative, Andersen, mentioned the ski. I don't know that very well, but Oslo is also an example. They have requested that there be a maximum of two subcontractors, that all subcontractors be approved by the municipality, that the municipality have a crew list of all those working on the contract, that they be paid according to national tariffs, and that the contract be terminated if social dumping is detected. This is an example of follow-up. So to the Christian People's Party's explanation of vote: it is that we have promoted six proposals under consideration in the Financial Committee. The representative proposal from the Labour Party contains a number of good proposals that we will look at in that context. Then I hear that the government has come a long way to work on the strategy against the crime of working life. That is why I expect it to come to Stortinget soon, and perhaps we can also look at it against our proposal for a representative. It is discussed in the Financial Committee, and I think it is interesting to look at the two proposals against each other, look at them in the context, look at the approach, look at the economic aspects and follow the money – because if you want to get rid of the backers and, in the utmost consequence, traffickers, it must also follow the money. That's why we're looking at giving the tax rate more tools to combat the black work, better tax certificates, as it is today, going directly to awareness campaigns to strengthen consumer awareness, making the kind of public procurement requirements that it is in Oslo, around the country, or at least to public buyers, and also demanding apprentices, which is a proposal that has come from the NHO. It's an important input because you get the more unprofessional actors too. That is why we will not support the proposal in this matter. We are waiting for the announced message from the government, and then we are going to back up a part of what the Workers' Party has from points of this proposal, in the consideration of the proposal for a representative that we have in the Financial Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2663	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2667	It is good to hear that the Christian People's Party is still on the team with the Workers' Party in finding new proposals and measures in the fight against this serious problem. The representative, Ropstad, is just pointing out what this is all about in the ultimate sense – it's about prostitution, black work and about trafficking in human beings. That analysis shares the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party. The Christian People's Party is a party engaged in the precautionary principle, that one should be careful. If the representative Ropstad agrees with the Labour Party that the government should listen to the Labour Inspectorate when they say that this particular problem of undeclared work – the exploitation of labour, prostitution and trafficking in human beings – could get worse if introduced, for example. the proposals for temporary employment, as the government has now proposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2674	Yes, we are going to read those hearings carefully, and it is also clear that when the Labour Inspectorate comes up with such warnings, it is something we take very seriously. And then I have to admit that the propositions that have come to Stortinget, I haven't pulled through yet, but we warn a thorough work in our big group. We're going to have close dialogue with the social partners. We are also going to engage in constructive talks and negotiations with the government parties. Because we see that there's a lot there that we can support -- a lot that's about helping even more people into the world of work that we're burning for. But we are concerned that the flexible, family-friendly working life that we will create in the future must also take care of the worker. That is why we must fight against the black work and the risk of social dumping. So I can promise the representative Trettebergstuen that there is something we're going to take very seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2681	Trafficking in human beings and the kind of criminal activity that everyone here agrees is illegal. The representative said that it was important to look at attitudes, attitudes, but perhaps the most important thing is to maintain and strengthen the attitudes we have had – that one should pay for the work that a person has done. My question is, I guess there are some who serve, and some who lose on social dumping. Could the representative disapprove of who is serving, and who is losing on social dumping?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2688	In my view, it is clear that in the most serious cases, there are people who are behind, who are cynical employers, and who exploit people in a difficult situation. They give them poor pay, and they run away with a greater part of the profit. But when I'm talking about attitude change, and why I think it's important, I think it's just going in itself. It can be tempting when you get to a place and have to wash the car, for 200 kr quickly to wash it inside and outside while you are at the store and shopping. These are the cases I think we have to be aware of. Probably it's some kind of muff with such a low price. I find it extremely problematic that when you are going to clean up a bath or an apartment, it is almost difficult to find a joiner who does not first ask if you want a receipt. It may have been put a little well on the verge, but that these are such cases, I think is worrying. I come from a smaller place, for example. is a lot harder to get to open up the white carpenters here in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2695	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2698	First, I would like to include the proposal of the Centre Party in the setting. I would like to pay tribute to the representatives of the Workers' Party who have taken up the proposal to draw up an action plan on social dumping and crime at work in Norway. It's a very important topic. I find reason to start with what is our overall legal basis, namely the third paragraph of Section 93 of the Constitution: ‘No one shall be kept in slavery or forced labour.’ And further in § 110: «The authorities of the Member States shall facilitate any person who is capable of working for the purpose of living at work or at work.» To Section 93, on forced labour: more and more people are experiencing such criminal cases, and it is frightening. In the case of § 110, it is full employment for employees and maritime operators to serve for the purpose of living. In other words, a person who has a full job should be able to have an income with the Norwegian level of costs that you can live by. It has strong protection in our constitution, and it is becoming more and more topical because there are more and more people who feel that more jobs need to be looked for in order to get enough income to live off. Before 2004, this was not a highly topical issue at the dining table of Norwegian workers. Why is this becoming more and more topical? Indeed, the enlargement of the EU to the east in 2004 and 2007 led to the free movement of labour from countries with perhaps only 10 pst by Norway — through the EEA Agreement. of Norwegian salaries and associated very high unemployment rates. It's created this situation. It can't be a surprise to anyone, on the contrary. The political elite in Norway would like to welcome a development of cheaper labour because it is served at lower prices for own purchases of goods and services. The tragedy now is that the majority of Norwegian workers are failing in the interests of Norwegian workers in a number of professional professions as a result of the free and uncontrolled movement of workers by the EEA Agreement. This applies to professions that are crucial for building Norway in the future, and it is professions that previously had high status and respect because they had become a part of neighboring Norway through political conflict. I can't make it very precise enough. A number of professions had a very high respect in Norwegian society a few years ago, but respect is now dramatically falling as a result of a new situation in the labour market. This is a very dangerous development. The centre party therefore wants to terminate the EEA Agreement and replace it with a trade agreement, where we will have employees from other countries, but under controlled conditions of scope. So far, we have the EEA Agreement. And – as I mentioned in my reply to the representative Andersen – we fully support the decision at the LO Congress, that Norwegian labour rules should prevail over the rules of the EEA Agreement. The centre party has previously supported action plans against social dumping, and so do we in this setting. We are strongly committed to strengthening joint action against labour-market crime, where both the Labour Inspectorate, the Criminal Service, Kripos, the Food and Drug Administration, Nav, the Foreign Affairs Department, the Tax Agency, the Customs Service, the Foreign Affairs Directorate and the Ecokrim work together. This requires increased appropriations, which is why our draft budget has increased the allocation by 75 million. to the Labour Inspectorate, which is one of the most important institutions in order to deal with a wrong and negative development. It's important that we now get to do this. It's also important for serious business leaders, because if we don't get rid of it, it threatens all the fair competition between the different groups of society. The centre party has, through the proposals, clarified a part of the situation, and we're standing by it. At the same time, we are strong supporters of strengthening professional organisation, so that we can achieve a balance between the social partners. For example, the Trade Union is doing an exemplary job in its industries and is doing things to maintain the level of organisation and balance of power, making it more difficult to achieve negative developments there than in other areas. That's something we're very pleased about, and we want to strengthen the Trade Union in all areas to secure it further in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2728	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2733	The centre party and the representative Lundteigen are constantly coming back to the fact that the major challenges we face in the field of labour crime and social dumping are due to the open borders and the lack of regulation of labour from the European Economic Area, as stated. The EEA Agreement. I'm a little surprised by Lundtigen's attitudes, which I think stigmatise jobseekers from Europe who are looking for work and happiness in Norway. The problem is not the migrant worker, but the criminal employment services and unprofessional actors in the labour market. Norway is dependent on European labour force. Can the Centre Party and the representative Lundtigen see that it is possible to work against labour and social dumping within the framework and rules we have with the EU through the EEA Agreement, which allows job seekers to move across borders in order to seek work?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2742	Yes, it is possible to work to improve the conditions of the EEA Agreement. That is why we support the action plans against social dumping. It is perfectly possible to work better with regard to criminal developments and the unprofessional actors – quite clearly. But more have to ask the questions: why has it become like it has now become? Why has it happened in so few years? What are the root causes? Is it related to the change in the balance of the labour market by the fact that the supply of labour in some industries is so high that wage and working conditions are pushed downwards? Here, more people should think about it. It was through the east expansion in 2004 and in 2007 that this shot speed, and there is reason to look at it more closely. That is why we also focus on the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2747	I have a question that goes on proposal No. 3, from the Centre Party, that public purchasers must require Norwegian wage and working conditions from the suppliers. I do not feel quite that the question of how the working life works in the international economy, so how does the representative see that the Norwegian pay terms proposal is to be implemented in cases where work is done outside Norway? Because it is not the case that all the work involved in deliveries to Norwegian public procurement is carried out on Norwegian soil.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2752	This proposal has been drawn up in view of the public procurement situation in Norway. That's what we're reasonably able to control, so that's what this is about. The government knows, like all other major employers and buyers of services and goods, what is the norm, what is normal in Norway. Therefore, we clarify this to require Norwegian pay and working conditions. It would be interesting to hear which parties think you shouldn't.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2758	The fight to terminate the EEA Agreement was surprisingly the main theme of the inauguration of the representative Lundtigen. I'm not going to polemise with Lundtegen to establish that we're probably in deep disagreement, both about the analysis and about solutions. But what I want to ask the representative Lundteg is something I've been wondering for quite a while. It is: if one now sees Norway leaving the EEA Agreement, how does the Central Party see that labour immigration into Norway from EU countries is regulated? Is it e.g. sufficient, if a German carpenter gets a job in Norway, that he has a job? Is it sufficient to be allowed to come here, or will the Central Party impose additional conditions on anyone who will be allowed to come to Norway and work from the European countries? Because it is not that a trade agreement will cover the issue of labour immigration. There's another question, and there I haven't seen that the Central Party has provided so many answers in the public debate for the time being.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2765	That's an interesting and good question. In the past, a regular full-time job would be in Norway before a job permit was granted in Norway, which is a key issue. It has also been for a number of industries — and is still outside the EEA area — to look at which professionals are in need in Norway, and to what extent different professionals are needed to meet the needs we have. There are three premises that may be important to bring with them in the way a regulates the size of, and who should be working immigrants in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2775	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2778	The starting point in Norway is good. Norwegian working life is mainly characterised by decent pay and working conditions, and we should be happy for that. Many years of good work comes from both elected and – not least – employers and employers. Nevertheless, we still see the case of social dumping, as there is every reason to take it very seriously. A user-friendly player is a trumps against employees as well as employers – against employees because they are being treated badly, and against employers, who have to compete with players who do not follow the rules. I feel that the fight against social dumping, and not least labour-life crime, is a cross-political project in Norway. I don't think there's any reason to be surprised that all the parties are expressing this today. At the same time, there are some pitfalls we have to guard against in such debates. One of them is not to introduce too rigid and bureaucratic rules that can make it so hard to drive away that actors fall for the temptation to take shortcuts and work black. It is therefore important that measures against social dumping be developed in cooperation with the social partners, so that rules and control mechanisms are objective and accurate. Another pitfall we have to avoid is that measures work protectively. Of course, we should be aware and honest that many of those who are exposed to social dumping are foreign workers. At the same time, we need to be able to tackle this without limiting the possibilities for foreign workers to come to Norway and work for a better life for themselves and theirs. The EEA Agreement and freedom of movement provide 500 million people in our continent with a basic value to take care of. That progress, however, is essentially something that seems to Norway to be doing well. This means that we have access to the labour force that is needed to solve important work in our society, in Norwegian construction sites, in hospitals or in Norwegian church sounds. Without wise heads and warm hands from abroad, it would be difficult to imagine the developments we have had in Norway in growth and value creation over the last ten years. The government has indicated that they will continue to work against social dumping, and it is pleased with the Left. We are also pleased that through the 2015 state budget, a strengthening of the Labour Inspectorate will take place. The Labour Inspectorate plays a decisive role in the fight against social dumping. However, there is not a single actor that can solve this challenge on its own. This means that the Labour Inspectorate works well with the social partners, not to talk to the police and the tax administration. Several research reports have in recent years revealed unprofessionalism and extensive social dumping in several industries. The ones that seem to be extraordinarily delayed are among other things. construction, industry and private service provision, such as cleaning and manning. The Employment Environment Act regulates many important aspects of working conditions in Norway. The main thrust of that law is to build on, although the Left believes that the rules of the labour market should become more universal and less dependent on whether or not a collective agreement is in place. In addition, the Work Environment Act should be strengthened with better rights for the individual employee related to information about the leave, and we should strengthen the Labour Inspectorate through a separate Alert Unit there. What the law does not regulate, on the other hand, is a lower limit on what is acceptable pay. This has been traditionally left to the parties. However, in 2004 the EU’s eastern enlargement made it necessary for us to change this model at that point and to supplement the free formation of wages with the generalisation of minimum wage rates in industries that were particularly exposed to social dumping. The left believes that there is time to consider whether this publicisation should be supplemented by a statutory national minimum wage, and in this context shows the representative proposal 74 S for 2013-2014, which unfortunately did not get any majority in this room. When it comes to the proposals ahead of us today, Left says that some of those from the Labour Party are worth looking closer, even though we can go far from doing good for all the proposals. The left vote therefore in favour of the proposal for a representative being annexed to the Minutes, and encourages the government to follow up and strengthen its work against social dumping in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2799	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2802	The representative Rotevatn mentioned in his statement the proposal from the Left to introduce the minimum wage. The left has quoted in its comment on the matter from the Fafo report on possible positive aspects of minimum pay. That paragraph has been verbatim. The last sentence of that paragraph reads: ‘[...] but the question is whether the introduction of statutory minimum wages will result in the current arrangements being undermined in the long term and lead to a lower level of protection for workers than is currently available in total.’ Why did the Left select to skip that sentence?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2812	I'm aware that Fafo doesn't want to go in for a government minimum wage, but we pointed out the argument they pointed out about how it might have positive sides as well. Now, the Left has not suggested that we have it, but we have asked for a settlement, just to get more knowledge about how it will affect the Norwegian wage formation, and how it can help against social dumping, which we are discussing here today. It was a knowledge that the Labour Party did not want, and thus voted against. So I would like to add that part of the heartbreaking examples that the representative Heggelund referred to in his post, if people who lit the lusal bean, are not necessarily illegal in Norway. It seems that the Left is problematic, and we are still surprised that the other party in this Chamber does not share that concern.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2819	The representative, Rotevatern, says that the work against social dumping is a cross-political project. With today's Left, I have to say it's just obvious. The left now becomes the active spokesman for the crisis response minimum wages without saying anything about the level to be set. In the post now, there was no analysis of why we get an increasing social dumping, just that one was concerned with protectionism. Then my question comes up: protectionism is something that the left is very opposed to. Why will Left act as a protectionist against people coming from outside the EEA territory? Why is it important to put the fences there, when the term 'protectionism' is so central to the Left's ideology today?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2824	Thank you, Mr Lundteg, for a very good question. The answer is that we won't. I think the representative is well aware that the Left in this Chamber has repeatedly called for a more liberal regime for both migrant workers and, not least, asylum seekers outside the EU who want to come to Norway, and that we have repeatedly argued that it makes sense to work for more free trade in the world – even outside the EU. The fact that an approach to the EEA has relatively high walls – in my view for high walls – against both man and goods is in no way an argument that one should reintroduce that type of wall within the EU, between EU countries. I think that's an unusually bad idea. I note that the European Development Fund, as requested by the government of the representative of Lundteigen, concludes in exactly the same way as I do.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2833	The left has long been eager to remove the deduction of trade union membership, and the Left Party leader, Trine Skei Grande, is behind the talking quote: ‘LO makes me sick.’ My question to the representative Rotevatn is: Does the Left see that an organised working life and organised workers are important or relevant in the fight against social dumping?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2839	Yes, the Left definitely sees that it's important. So to the union deduction: it's not right that the Left has suggested removing it, but we've been thinking for very, very many years that it should be at the same level as it did in 2005. So does it in our alternative budget. Then I register that the selection as the government of the representative Bergstø put down, the Scheel selection, recommends that we remove the entire trade union deduction from a view that one should have a flatter tax system with fewer deductions. That's of course interesting. We will certainly discuss that further, and that discussion should be part of it. What I think is special, and it is as far as SV is concerned: In the debate earlier today, I asked the Labour Party about why they think that the trade union deduction should only apply to those who are in a main association, and thus will deprive 120 000 organized workers of the tax deduction. Unfortunately, I did not get a good answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2846	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2849	SV is also deeply concerned about the degree of social dumping we see in our working life, and we are equally concerned about the lack of effort shown by the government in this field. That is why it is important that we have this debate today. In the newspaper on October 13th this year, both the construction industry and the Kripos say that they are helping to prevent crime. They are concerned about the liberalisation of the labour market., Managing Director Jon Sandnes of the Land Association of Construction, BNL, says to the Daily Newspaper: ‘We want a society that builds up more of the employers who invest in permanent employees. There is no society that is made up of individual enterprises, all of which are to sell their jobs, and no one is responsible for their employees. This undermines the working environment and makes it more difficult for the police.» He points out that the basic model of Norwegian society is a platform where companies have a firm commitment. However, the government wants to make it easier for companies to invest in temporary labour. Head of Department Eivind Borge of the Tactical Investigation Department in Kripos says: ‘It is not good for the labour market to be squandered. There is a great risk of liability powdering if all are only contracting entities and no one has the employer's hat on. It is a scary development.» The majority in the Committee believe that labour-life crime is not an area suitable for traditional block thinking and will have a cross-political approach to the challenges – so far so good. But when the same number of people at the same time picks down both floors and walls in the construction plant that houses the Norwegian model – the party relationship – by weakening the labour environment laws in important fields and weakening the weakest part of the trade relationship that happens in the workplace, then I wonder if they really think that the fight against labour-life crime and social dumping is a struggle they should fight with and with actions and not just with words. The big picture is that work - life crime is a serious problem, and many heavy actors are concerned about its scale. It should be listened to. An important reason for today's situation is the way Brussels overrules regulated working life. The serious losses against the criminals. The use of illegal labour is increasing. Tax evasion and black economy problems are increasing equally, and there are many serious examples of what it looks like. A recent report by Roar Eilertsen and Paul Bjerke states: ‘The challenges come not only from so-called ‘unusual’ enterprises which violate a number of laws and regulations and which systematically commit work-life crime. One of the main points of this report is that large, serious companies and public enterprises contribute to the establishment of a ‘legal’ B team in the labour market. They are often foreign workers, are employed on short-term contracts in crew companies and with subcontractors and are best paid at the minimum rates of tariffs. Manning companies continue to grow in the most vulnerable sectors, the employees are «permanently employed without pay between jobs» and the rules on equal treatment at rentals are undermined differently. The report demonstrates that the attacks on pay and working conditions are a direct consequence of the free flow regime of the EEA Agreement and the principle of EU/EEA law that free movement is a priority for the protection of workers. Constantly new directives and judgments restrict the possibility of requiring an orderly pay and working conditions for companies operating in Norway. The outsourcing of labour policy to Brussels weakens trade union movement and makes the fight more difficult.’ SV is not against workers from other countries seeking happiness, but we want them to be able to live by selling their workers here. This debate is not new. However, this debate is fundamental to what kind of society we want, and it requires an analysis of power and power relationships, which also Lundtigen had in mind. I myself had the pleasure, as a professional leader in SV, to participate in a representative proposal on the same theme for a while before inflation in action plans went down. It was in the period 2003–2004, when we stood before the EEA enlargement, which was a new revolution in this phenomenon, which we have known about the body from the perspective of the various social arenas.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2883	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2886	I believe that most – even if you are civil – are for a tidy and organized working life. I also think that you don't necessarily have to be organized to be a follower of and want a work life that is well organized. What is the challenge, in my opinion, is that many of those who are exposed to the crime of working life are not organized. A lot of people aren't caught by public institutions. The government has clearly expressed its desire to carry out frequent checks, and it wants cross-border cooperation in order to have a targeted strategy. My question is, how does SV think you can gain insight into these conditions and work specifically to avoid social dumping?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2895	Of course, it is important for SV that we strengthen the institutions we have – the Labour Inspectorate, the Tax Administration and that kind of thing – but that is far from enough. What one needs is a comprehensive organization and that one facilitates that trade unions can also have these as members. It's done otherwise in Europe by LO's sister organisations in different cities, because one has the same problem there too. One simply needs to get these human beings organized in his community of interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2900	In its setting, SV, together with its former government partner, the Workers' Party, makes quite eye-catching claims. They claim, among other things: that the changes in the work environment law that we are now proposing will make it ‘simplified to be unprofessional’. This is a statement without hold in reality. They also claim that ‘the Solberg government includes, to a lesser extent than all previous governments, the social partners in the formulation of policies in the field of working life’. This is quite alarming, so I wonder: How far back in time has SV examined the cooperation of former governments with the social partners, and can the representative explain how this claim can be justified and supported?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2909	It has since 1935, when we got the main agreement in Norway, which began to regulate the relationship of one of the most important powers we have, i.e. the working life, was a common strategy for different governments to include the social partners in their work. In this case now, with the new changes in the law that came when the government came, it has been pronounced by several trade unionists, among others. from the National Organisation, which organises almost one million employees, that they have never experienced being set aside in the same way as they have now – and they are older than in 1935.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2914	I would simply like to ask the same question to the representative, Mr Gjerstad, as I asked the representative, Mr Lundtigen, because from SV's point of view too, there is a lot of talk about how unfortunate it is with the free movement of people within the EEA area, but I am not talking about the option.Is it such that SV wants to come to Norway and work for Swedes like the ones we have today for Argentineans and Americans? Do I share the view I thought I heard that Lundteigen's front, that it must first be about a full-time job to have, and secondly that there must be a so-called need for your workforce? How are Swedish, Danish, German and French neighbours going to Norway to work with SV's preferred model?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2919	What is the problem here is, of course, the way in which the EU operates, as a very competitive economy, where mobility in the labour market is sought by the labour force being opposed to each other, in order to work as cheap as possible. There is no lucky way to secure the weak party, which is the employee. When it comes to our relationship with the EEA Agreement, we have programmed that we want to replace it with a trade agreement, which we have with other countries. We can talk about it another time, because now it's time out.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2926	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2930	Let me first commend the representatives who have promoted the proposal, to put an important debate on the agenda, a debate that we all depend on taking, a debate that involves us, and in which we should all take part. So it will always be that we can have different solutions for how we're going to defeat the crime that happens in our working life. No one wants a working life with 'unfair' rules, a working life that breaks down workers. No one wants a working life that has big differences. For this reason, an organised working life is important, a good working life is important, and a well-functioning working life is important. We have done so in Norway, and we have had this for many, many years. And then there might be different ways to be able to break down the basements. I've said that we're going to have a policy that makes it easy to be serious, and it's going to be hard to be a basement. This is why the government has already implemented a number of proposals and a number of measures to tackle those that are unprofessional. Let me mention something: General public: in addition to the four areas already publicised, the fishing industry was also publicised on 27 November. The subject of tariffs has asked for it both in the electrical, freight and touring industries. No decision has been taken yet, but it is under assessment. At the same time, we have strengthened the Labour Inspectorate, which is also one of the things that representatives address in their proposal. More coordinated supervision is important. We only carry out over 16 000 inspections this year. Coordinated supervision — the unannounced supervision of taxation, police and labour supervision — is well-functioning, making it easier and more effective to take the cellars. The Lime case is a good example of that. But it is also important – and here I agree with Andersen’s representative – that others may be included in the supervision of different industries. That is why we also carried out surveillance during the summer when Coast Guards were on the coast. Sometimes it may also make sense to bring the Food Safety Authority with you. We're working on coordinated supervision, we think it's important and a proper way to do it. We have put in place SUA offices in Bergen – an important measure to help out qualified workers, but also a good measure in the fight against social dumping. Once we've faked the basements, this government is also taking important action by strengthening the sanctions framework. On Friday, we presented proposals that could lead to serious breaches of the Working Environment Act for three years. Serious violations of the Public Service Act can lead to three years of imprisonment. Under the red-green government, there was a one-year prison in the Working Environment Act and fines in the Public Service Act. For participation in serious offences, prisons can now also be held for up to three years. Furthermore, this government is now embarking on a larger awareness-raising work and a campaign that goes on the cleanwash.no, involving the Workers' Union, the Parat, the NHO Service, the Works, the KS, the Specter and the Labour Inspectorate, in order to launch a good campaign related to the cleaning industry. So it's doing things from this government. In addition, sectoral programmes are being set up. We have set up an industry programme for nightlife, and it is also underway for the transport sector — important actions. We are also improving ID cards in the construction industry. So I get a little disappointed and bored when the opposition tries to say that this government is completely passive or leads the situation in the wrong direction. No, we have already accepted many of the proposals contained in this proposal for a representative. That it is considered to be going in the wrong direction, I think it is a strange claim. Furthermore, we have had and have good contact with both LO and NHO, the tax haven, Nav, the police, Økokrim and others. to obtain the correct and good situation description. This is the situation description we are now building on the action plan and strategy plan against crime at work, just to gain a broad experience, a broad picture of the situation, and it will come in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2951	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2954	Some examples were cited by the Council of State. I assume that the government has not begun to generalise tariff agreements, for example. It is the subject of collective bargaining. The fact that the government has not stopped the supervision that was started under us, I do not see it as an innovation from the government, and we agree that the Labour Inspectorate needs more money for supervision – we have gone further in appropriations than the government. But it's going to make a sense that this is a topic that we agree on. I realize that it is a desire to produce it like this. But when Eriksson was a staggering representative, he voted against the right of access for trustees, he voted against the duty of passport, he voted against Norwegian conditions in municipal tenders, he voted against joint responsibility, he voted against regional protection agencies in the hotel and restaurant industries, in the cleaning industry, and he voted against the obligation to discuss part-time positions and collective redress, which he now proposes to remove. My question is: if there is such a broad consensus on measures against social dumping, will the Council of State not repeat the proposals and remove the things which he voted against during his period in the Grand Duchy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2963	I guess we haven't removed anything other than collective redress. I think that makes sense too. It is legally problematic to have it, as that proposal lay there, and it is the heavy legal environment that has also pointed out. It is also an instrument that has not been used. It has been used only once – that time on a wrong case, which was rejected in court. We must – and have also started work on this with regard to the proposal for a 20 S representative – review the three action plans that have been promoted. We will review those action plans in a thorough and good manner. We're going to do what I've been doing in this room and we're going to say earlier, what works, what works, what we're going to do, what we're going to build on. What turns out not to work, we're going to replace it with something else that can work better.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2970	Thus, a number of measures taken have gone against Eriksson and the Right in Stortinget. A year ago, Councillor Eriksson said that he would have an immediate meeting – I believe even it was called a crisis meeting – because of the situation on the labour market. That meeting never happened, but there have been some meetings after a letter came from LO, which was supported by the NHO. In this context, the Council of State has said that he will present an action plan, and it should come before Christmas. Then my question is, now it's been a year, but does it come before Christmas this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2979	Firstly, with regard to the immediate meeting: I have also been in Stortinget and answered earlier, and I think it is a little unheard of and a bad rhetoric from the representative Andersen. I'm going to be completely honest about it, as I've also been before: yes, we called for a meeting quickly, but it didn't happen to get all the parties to meet on the dates that we had set up, precisely because you were also in the preparations for a pay settlement – inside a pay settlement. That is why the meeting was held in June. But before that time, the Prime Minister had also held meetings, and we had a summit conference in September with the parties as well. So the meetings have been completed. The parties believe that they have been properly taken into account. I feel this has actually been delivered by the government, and I find it strange that you put yourself on such a type of rhetoric in this room in such an important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2986	In order to build Norway, we need skilled workers who, through payment for work, social standing and respect, thrive and are proud of their profession. It's the Norwegian tradition. Several trade union workers are now losing their recruitment. They lose the recruitment of Norwegian young people who are interested in the subject. Good examples are masons and painters — no country manages without skilled masons and painters to build the country. My simple question is: is the fact that we lose skilled workers, young people in Norway who are interested in the subject, a problem for the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e2993	I am sorry that I did not have the right to answer the second question to the representative of Andersen. I'm going to answer both of them now -- I'll get it. As I concluded my post with: the strategy plan against crime at work is coming in a very short time. So to the representative Lundtigen, yes, I think it's a challenge. It is a challenge for us in the analysis of the world around us to see that by 2025 we can lack 90,000 skilled workers. Therefore, it is important that we facilitate a good policy where we start to train and qualify skilled workers. Among other things, we have On Friday 5 December, it came forward, which also has a number of measures to bring qualified people into the labour market, while my department and the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion are working with a joint report on how to meet the labour needs of the future and get the skilled workers we need in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e3002	I thank you for your answer. I'm very happy about that. The councils are real and say this is a problem. The council says this is something he wants to look at. But why has it been like that? In a few years the reputation of painters and masons has fallen dramatically. It's happening so dramatically fast. Could the Council of State give an equally clear explanation as to why the reputation has fallen so quickly? Why is it so little interesting for Norwegian youth to train for walls or paintings?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e3007	I wish I could give a good answer to that, but I think the Minister of Education is better at answering what students choose. I don't have a good overview of what education people want and choose. What I'm registering is that we're going to have a significant shortage of skilled workers in the future. It is important that we now start work on qualifying and training more skilled workers. One of the main reasons is also that we are becoming more and more people. Today we have 5.1 million people. In 2025, if the most optimistic projection goes on, we'll have 6.1 million people. It also helps to increase the demand for different types of labour to such an extent, which means that we need both foreign labour and to get more out of our own labour force.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e3014	For SV, it is a fundamental principle that everyone working in Norway should have Norwegian pay and working conditions. This is also in the interests of Norwegian workers. We find it difficult to see that the government and the Minister of Labour share this view, among other things. because temporary additions are proposed. It's because we know both from experience and from research that unconnected with the labour market is countering strong trade unions, because people are less organized at their jobs. I wonder whether the Council of State wants weaker trade unions, or whether the Council of State sees that the level of organisation and the fight against social dumping are closely linked?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e3022	I am unable to see the relationship that the representative addresses with regard to our proposal for temporary employment, a proposal that we made on 5 December, with a good framework, a quota system and a quarantine provision. Most enterprises have 10 or fewer employees. That means you can take one person. Those in temporary employment also have to deal with Norwegian pay and working conditions. They do not have a different type of pay and working conditions. The way SV has argued against these proposals, and also other proposals, is a little strange. This means that you can actually risk increasing rents during periods, because temporary employment is still allowed today when the nature of the work so warrants, and much of this is done by increasing rents. The fact that SV is now so strongly opposed to temporary employment will also result in more pressure on the hiring of labour. My question back is: does SV want to remove the springboard we are now proposing, and rather increase the renting of labour?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e3029	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e3032	It has now been one year – a whole year has passed with a new government, without anything happening in the fight against labour-life crime and social dumping. Obviously, the government has been busy having internal seminars with itself to understand what this is all about, and the extent of it, and has obviously – as in so many other areas – come into reality after, a little backwards and contradictory. Because I hear and notice the rhetoric from the position where we agree in this analysis, how touchingly agreed we are. Yes, we'll see – it's all about what the government is putting forward. But it's not very close that we've agreed. I remember standing here five years ago debating whether social dumping was a problem. In January of this year – less than a year ago – we had a note in the position of the Transport Committee, which the Right and the Advance Party were not in, where it stated that competition for pay and working conditions could be serious. They couldn't be on it. The representative Heggelund is pleased that we are focusing on an interesting issue. No, we're not just doing that, we're proposing action against it. Nor was it the case that we were just focusing our searchlight on an important area in the previous period. We proposed measures to be taken, which the Right and the Advance Party voted against. What is the government doing – for something they've done, right should be right – one year into this period? Yes, they come with more punishment and more control. That is good, because it is supported politically. We also tightened the sanctions regime when we were in government, with the employment message two years ago. We also strengthened supervision, because that was necessary. But this area also shows how the Workers' Party and the position separate layers. We have a complete mindset. Like all other crimes, labour crime must also face both prevention and punishment, and this government, despite its internal seminar, has not understood. Because we will never be able to control ourselves out of this problem, no matter how many millions of Labour Inspectorate would be added. No, we have to listen to the Labour Inspectorate! What do they say? Jo: Use the trade union movement, says the Labour Inspectorate. To prevent and bring the problem to life, we need to provide professional mobility with tools to be our eyes and ears — the most effective supervision around the workplaces around the country and the beach. Then we have to support the organized working life and provide them with tools. Is that what the government is doing? No, on the contrary, the only thing the government has come up with about tools and the trade union movement is that they have removed the tool the trade union movement has asked for. They propose to break the principle of non-discrimination in the directive on temporary workers when they are soon to make changes that will allow temporary workers to be underpaid again. Renting in will pay off. And the proposals they have put forward in the Working Environment Act also prevent the problem from getting to life. At all, this is contrary to the Norwegian working life now needed. This debate also shows that even the Council of State has not got what the trade union workers, the trade union movement and the industries around now warn about: Why are we unable to recruit young people for these professions? Well, that's because these professionals are confused because they're not paid because they're competing with people from abroad who are not skilled. Obviously, this has not been brought by the Council of State. It is clear that the Council of State has failed to understand why the Labour Inspectorate warns against the proposal for general access to temporary employment. It's not about those who are temporarily employed not having the same pay, it's about more temporary inaccuracy in the workplace, it's about creating a working life that makes it more difficult to work against unprofessionalism. The government is once again showing tonight that they are not taking seriously the biggest challenge of the welfare state. It is disappointing how long it takes for the Right Party and the Advance Party to realize what everyone else sees, that now there is a need for stronger action. I hope the government comes with measures now before Christmas. We're going to look at what the government is promoting, but I doubt that we're going to stand here during the discussion of this plan and say that we agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e3053	The proposers have raised an important issue. Employment crime is serious and must be combated because it exploits workers and because it threatens the welfare state. Social dumping is the consequence of serious crime at work. The government is concerned about development and takes this very seriously. The Labour Party has recently tried to question whether the government is giving high enough priority to the fight against labour crime. The representative, Dag Terje Andersen, was also involved in this in his article, and also in the reply earlier, that it has taken too long before the social partners have been invited to a meeting on this subject. For there to be no doubt: this work is top priority in the government, as the Council of State also underlined in its article. This is why both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs have participated in several meetings with the social partners. The Prime Minister held a summit with the social partners in September now, where the theme was the instruments for stepping up efforts to combat labour-life crime. The government's plan is that by the end of the year it will present a strategy to strengthen work on the crime of working life. The work on this strategy is in close cooperation with the social partners, precisely because we believe that this is the right way to do it. The government has had several meetings on the matter both with the LO and the NHO, so foreshadowing that the government does not prioritize this work is not a goal. Cooperation between the authorities and the social partners is important in order to ensure serious working conditions and a good working environment. The government will have a working life with safe and good conditions for employees and a profitable environment for the serious enterprises. User-friendly businesses will be cleared up by the government. User-friendly actors challenge the more serious and legitimate part of working life. They threaten the Norwegian model both by contributing to the loss of tax revenue and by rocking it at such a basic value in working life as it trusts. For several years, the work of the Labour Inspectorate and other official control offices has been systematically countering unprofessional work. However, sadly, reports from the police and the Labour Inspectorate suggest that crime and social dumping pose increasing challenges in Norwegian working life, and what we also see is that lack of serious actors leads to more social dumping. The serious actors are losing in competition with the unprofessional, and it is therefore important that the measures taken are taken correctly. The NHO has stated that some of the measures taken by the previous government have made mistakes in imposing new obligations and burdens on those who are serious operators in the market through increased legislation, while the measures do not take where there is a need for tightening up. It is important that the measures become more targeted and that they affect the unprofessional actors that we want to remove. The government will strengthen efforts for a clean and serious working life and fight crime in the labour market. There is a need for broad mobilization throughout the world of work. An important measure is to strengthen cooperation between official controls. In the 2015 state budget, this has been followed up by proposals for joint action between the police, the tax administration and the Labour Inspectorate. Enforcement and enforcement of legislation must be strengthened and improved. The authorities cooperate closely with the social partners, both through the tripartite industry programme and through joint efforts against the black economy. We look forward to the government's announced strategy against the crime of working life. I am pleased with the government's tripling of efforts for coordination and cooperation between the levels. If we are to succeed, work on the crime of working life must be interdisciplinary, cross-political and transversal. Nor does the debate have to be as polarized as the opposition often suggests. It is not constructive that opinions and attitudes which neither we ourselves nor the parties to which we belong are added in debates and public vocabulary. We're not going to agree on everything, but we have to cooperate, because we have a common goal of getting the crime of working life alive. The fight against undeclared work and labour crime needs to be pursued over and over again — and with ever new instruments. We have to be as creative when we put holes in the law as our opponents are when they find them. If we are to succeed in this work, governments, social partners and businesses must stand together.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e3076	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e3079	The government says that social dumping is unacceptable in the interests of workers and competing companies, but has largely been voted against by all the Workers' Party initiatives and red-green action plans. On Friday came the proposal to reverse collective redress – understand who can! But now we're making 22 new proposals. The Council of State does not comment on any of them in its letter to the Committee. The majority of the Committee merely states that the proposals ‘are annexed to the Protocol’. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State quite specifically: which – if any – of the 22 proposals does he think it makes sense to look at? If this becomes too difficult, I would at least ask for a comment on the proposals No. 10-13. They are about public procurement and can be summarised under the heading ‘Snow model’. Following the initiative of the trade union movement, the municipal politicians have taken responsibility and adopted a very comprehensive anti-contractor clause for their own purchases – construction and construction and goods and services. The rules apply to the municipality itself, but the municipal companies have been asked to follow up. Anyone who wants to have a job for the municipality of Skien must sign that no employees, including any subcontractors, have lower pay terms than a collective agreement or what is common for the same type of work in Norway. Providers shall use their own staff and the majority shall have professional letters. Sub-contracting with a single person or contracted labour force shall be justified in writing. If accepted, the same strict rules apply to them, but the general rule is that no subcontractor should be used. Under no circumstances shall there be more than two stages in the contract chain. Norwegian must be the main language of the workplace. Approved apprenticeships shall be available to all trainees and the participation of apprentices in the project may be required. Providers shall report on an ongoing basis on the use of foreign labour, all of which shall be reported to the tax authorities. Wages and salaries are paid to the Norwegian bank. Occupational indemnity insurance shall be provided for all employees. All facts must be documented and self-declaration signed. In addition, the general requirements for HMS, work environment law, etc. apply and the contract forms of the Norwegian Standard are to be used. So good is this that several of the local teams of the Workers' Party have incorporated this into their municipal election programmes. In its letter, the Council of State states that ‘serious orders have a key role to play in preventing criminal actors from entering the labour market’. I guess the councils are counting the public, with their businesses, on the serious. Proposals Nos. 10–13 is a short version of the Ski model. Does the Council agree that these are timely requirements for the public to supply to its suppliers?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e3092	It is in the Norwegian People's Isle to wish for orderly employment. This is also why one of the main challenges facing the welfare society in the years to come is labour crime, mainly because it undermines the basic values of Norwegian society, but also because it affects workers who are exposed to unprofessional employers. Our rules are going to apply, because it's about our future. The government has announced a strategy against work crime. The essential aspect of the strategy is, of course, the holistic approach – a holistic approach aimed at how to control and, not least, manage to overcome work crime. Of course, labour supervision has an important role to play, but it also has tripartite cooperation and all the constructive forces that want to participate. Norway, as a society, has changed over the last decades, through increased labour migration from EU countries. This has given many Europeans the opportunity to create a future in Norway. That's good. There is no doubt that Norway also has a responsibility for Europe’s development. At the same time, companies from other countries have had the opportunity to compete with Norwegian companies for assignments in Norway. Competition for commissions is important, but it is to be done by following the rules of the Norwegian labour market. Combating work crime is about actions and attitudes. We must take action to combat crime at work, but at the same time we must also reverse the view that black work, lack of employment contracts and safety measures at work are acceptable. It is not least important that it is simply about attitudes, completely independent of party membership. The attitudes toward black work are not necessarily that because if you're a member of a particular party, you're too black work, and if you're not, you're against it. This applies to everything. Nor can attitudes be adopted through political decisions. Attitudes are something you basically have. Combating work crime is about building good attitudes and preparing Norway for the future. The government takes the crime of work seriously. Now I think it is more than ever important that we all stand together to take the Norwegian working life further. The most unfortunate thing to do is to create a debate between parties and not have an overall idea that it is a common responsibility for Norwegian working life to be characterized by neat, orderly and future perspectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e3105	There are times where we stand alone, and where we are ourselves enough. That's what we're looking at as a good example, where, under the Ski World Cup, we hit the top 30 nations on the top 40 list, becoming one of the world's world-class nations. We're also an example of that if we think about football, where we have Rosenborg and all the great sessions and hours of the fall evenings with the Champions League. But it was not like the trousers wrote the Basic Law alone, as Norway was like the skirtiest. It wasn't like the thunders alone chased the Germans out of Norway and drove resistance work – we did that together. It did all of Norway together. It's like the crisis in the 1990s, through tripartite cooperation, where we said it was more important that our comrade was in work than that we got pay growth. We had a solidarity settlement. What's interesting is that none of the measures we hear from the Civita Academy denies the tripartite model or the central model. There's none of the arguments or measures that point out that it pays off with the local model, where we split the measures, where we do it randomly. It is the central, strong social partners who must lead. It points to the Labour Inspectorate and their power and opportunity. If the Labour Inspectorate were to follow up every warning in the construction industry in Trøndelag, there must have been 500 employees only in Trondheim – there are three to four on construction. We have to use all the listening posts we have in the workplace. We have to take it seriously when you are concerned that skilled workers will become project workers, in order for apprentices to be hired. Several times the council has proved that he is willing to listen when he sees that he has come out a little crooked. It's not too late to turn around this time either. For the main direction – if you are going to learn something – you need to be a regular job. It requires security and flexibility if you are to make one of the social partners stand together with the other and fight against unprofessionalism, against work crime that punishes workers and employers, and finally hits us all, and affects the nation of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e3116	The representatives of the government parties, the right parties, express surprise that the opposition criticises them in this discussion. I must say that the Council of State, Eriksson, should at least not be surprised at that. I want to remind him of all the hard discussions he and I had in the last big period, and – as was said by others here, and as I just say in a summarizing sentence – where he was against everything that supported the trade union movement, and he was against everything that was about strengthening what could be a protection of workers. I would like to remind the representatives of the Progress Party that I have, not long ago, been in discussions with them, where they would withdraw the main agreement in Norwegian working life – the main agreement. Then you can ask yourself, and I would like to say it a good question: is what we hear today, an expression of a complete collapse in the analysis of the Progress Party also in terms of working life? Now at least they're not saying these things that they said throughout the last period – and they've been saying for 40 years. Is that a collapse? Maybe, but I really don't think so. I think, and I'm using the popular expression, that they've come to sense and gather and understand that they can't go that way, because then they won't come out. They will take the path that the right-wing parties in Europe usually take, and that is to tackle the most important instrument for combating social dumping and everything else in the world of work, namely the trade movement. In the next round, the temporary period is about a weakening of the ability of the trade union movement to participate and manage Norwegian working life properly. For permanent employment is a key point for strong trade union movement. This has been understood by the Progress Party, and that is why they are going to do the same. Collective action is the second example. Why does the Council of State remove it? Well, to deprive the trade union movement of a legal instrument to just deal with social dumping. Of course, it destroys all his credibility in his fight against social dumping – as he has prejudiced from this pulpit. Therefore, there is no collapse – unfortunately. There is a deliberate strategy to move working life in such a way that it becomes completely different, and Norwegian workers are much weaker in the next generation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e3125	Social dumping and the fight against social dumping are about the distribution of income and money, but it is at least as much about the distribution of influence and power. It is clear that the framework we set for working life also determines its content. That is why I am very concerned when I see that the principle of non-discrimination is being attacked, because that means that the price of hired labour could be reduced. That is why I am concerned when I see that the government will increase the temporaryity of working life and open up more temporary jobs, because we know that it will just lead to weaker links with the labour market and lower levels of organisation, and therefore I am concerned when I see that collective redress is under attack, because it is about the protection of the most vulnerable in working life. When I heard the presentation of the proposals for the Working Environment Act, I thought it almost seemed to me that there are workers who are to be protected from the strong collective nature of a trade union, not that it provides protection against irresponsible and unaccountable employers or distorted power relationships. Therefore, I would like the disagreement in this Chamber to be as small as it is, but what we have seen now – what we have seen from concrete proposals, concrete policies, put on the table – points to the opposite. My intention is in no way to make the disagreements bigger than they are, but to point out the politics and the reality that could be chiseled out of what, after all, is being promoted. Because we have a different view of a lot. We have different views on how to meet the EEA legislation and the EU's free movement of labour, and what action must be taken in this context, and we have different views on how the Working Environment Act should look. We may not have a different view of tripartite cooperation, but we definitely have a different view of how it works in practice, especially when you hear the summary of today's situation by the trade unions. Let me make one thing clear: SV would like to welcome Polish workers to Norway — some have insinuated something else in this debate — but we are absolutely consistent on the fact that this will happen under Norwegian pay and working conditions. It is also the policy we have promoted in our programme and in our time of government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e3134	There is an increasing claim that Norway needs more foreign labour in the future. At the same time, the situation is that today’s foreign labour force has a lower employment rate than the Norwegian one. In a letter dated 19 November, the Council of State said to my deputy Gerd Eli Berge: ‘The employment rate of immigrants is lower than that of the population otherwise. While the employment rate of the population is 69.7 percent, the employment rate of immigrants is about 7 percent lower. Immigrants have a consistently more favourable age and gender profile than the general population in terms of employment. A greater proportion of immigrants are in the highest employment age groups, and men are overrepresented. If a person corrects the employment rate of immigrants to match the age and gender profile of the population otherwise, the difference in employment rate is somewhat greater.’ So we're in a situation where immigrants have fewer paid hours per person than Norwegians. Not least the Workers' Party has the slogan to create to distribute. Creating to benefit — to create — is the basis for the whole welfare community. And then we're at my point: a lower employment rate creates less. At the same time, more allocation is required to provide safe conditions for people when social income from work decreases due to lower employment rates. So we're inside a negative social spiral that needs to be mapped. This has a major impact on our welfare society in the future. That's now we're laying the foundation, and that's now we're making the decisions. At least it is important to clarify the professional fact — and the professional fact is, as it now says, that immigrants have a lower employment rate, and it creates major challenges in the future. More and more subjects are becoming involved in this, and there is a need to discuss it in the Norwegian metropolitan area.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e3147	There will be many major debates that are now being held, so even though Mr Lundtigen's contribution is very interesting – I agree – I go back to what is the starting point of the proposal for a representative. We from the Christian People's Party see, as has been said, very positive on many of the proposals. We have, as has been said, also a draft representative of the Financial Committee dealing with some of the same issues. We're going to have a hearing just over New Year's, and I want to say from the Christian People's Party that we want broad cooperation to come up with decisions that could mean something in the fight against social dumping and labour-life crime. I understood the intervention of the representative Wenstøb so that it also applies to the government parties, and then we are attending to the joint work that can be continued when the finance committee is working on the proposal for a representative that I have mentioned. But the state and the public have two roles. We have a role as legislator, and we're going to use it, but we also have a role as an actor. And with regard to the role as an actor, it's a lot to pick up, in my opinion. I refer you to the posts of the representative Lise Christoffersen. That's where it got suggestions from Skien. You can also get suggestions from Oslo that show that the public takes action to ensure that the employers who are serious are also the ones who are given a job. It's up to us, and it's up to all state agencies that buy billions of dollars every year. The same applies to municipalities. Ultimately, everyone loses if we don't have an orderly working life: it's the employees, it's the serious employers, and it's society as a whole. That's why I don't hesitate to say that the trend you're seeing is a tumor on the labour market, which we have to fight, and we fight it the best in common. I hope we can agree on that when we can eventually get decisions formed by a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e3158	To the Seven: It is at least good that the Christian People's Party signals that they are going to vote in favour of some of our actions, if not in this position, then in the position of the Financial Committee. That's more than what government parties do. I note that very many people from the position are very hurt over the criticism they get from the opposition here today. You're going to get criticism every day, until you change courses, not only from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, but you're going to get criticism from an overall trade movement, which even alerts strike due to the course you have. You will continue to get criticism from your own offices, such as the Labour Inspectorate and STAMI, who warn against the course that the government has, outside the stump, for a worse working life, not a better one. Yes, even the employer's side is dissatisfied, if perhaps for some other reason. So you have to turn to criticism, and you have to turn to debate. Because we don't accept that you say that you agree with the analysis and try to make it look like there's some kind of consensus in this room about the importance of organized and decent working life and about the tools, because it's not. We do not agree at all. Before you vote in favour of our 22 actions, we do not agree. We have developed these measures in cooperation with the parties. We've listened to the surveillance, to the floors. What have you done at the same time? Not the things of the world. If you had used our tool, conversation, curiosity and openness to the parties, you would have had these 22 measures, you too, but you don't want to go into these measures, you don't want them. Do what is necessary. Change course. Cancel the proposed changes to the Working Environment Act. Peace the measures against social dumping that we have introduced in the last eight years, and vote for our new proposals today and in the future. Only then can we start talking about something that might approach, and look like, some kind of consensus.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e3169	The President must remember that the speech must be addressed to the President. It is particularly important when the temperature and severity are getting high.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e3172	I'm sorry, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e3177	I will not withdraw the debate, but I feel that the last article by the representative Lundteg – if the way immigrants are pointed out as a group that is very problematic when it comes to employment and participation in Norway – cannot be undisputed. Firstly, if Norwegian immigrants were a country of their own, that country would have one of the highest levels of employment in the world. Secondly, it makes very little sense to talk about immigrants who are involved in this context, because there is such a huge difference in the level of employment between different immigrant groups. If we look at what the representative Lundtigen has been busy with in this debate, the EEA immigrants, the employment rate is higher than that of ethnic Northmen, which is not surprising given the fact that they are talking about migrant workers. If one were to do something aimed at not getting a lower level of employment in the immigrant group, the representative Lundtegene should also seek to tighten up the asylum institution or accept fewer quota refugees. There are the many in those groups that unfortunately are not as much employed, for quite natural reasons. It's about missing education, war currents and other serious issues. I have not understood – fortunately – that the Central Party, neither in this debate nor in other debates, has the right to accept fewer asylum seekers and fewer refugees in Norway. But what I understand is that they want to accept fewer of those who have a high level of employment: the immigrants from our neighbourhood. I can promise that if that policy were implemented, a set of employment rates would be among Norwegian immigrants.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e3190	I will clarify a few things that have been said in this debate. That's said a lot, and they say a lot that really isn't totally hanging out. When the representative of the Trettebergstuen points out that the Council of State has not got this with skilled workers, I have two questions back: is it such that the representative of the Trettebergstuen is against the EEA Agreement and does she not want to accept EEA immigrants? When we talk about painters and trade union workers such as masons, in fact, are the skilled workers who are under the public service scheme today, where Norwegian pay and working conditions are to be met. This is reflected in the generalisation scheme. And those who try to do criminal and unacceptable business, we're going to take, and they're going to be punished. We agree on that, and this government has also taken action to do so. The representative of Kolberg says that we are surprised to meet a debate. No, I'm not surprised to meet a debate. I am also not surprised that the opposition disagrees with the position. It's the opposition's privilege to disagree with the position. But I said in my post that I'm surprised that you use words and expressions as if you haven't done any of the world's things. And then I spent the other 4 minutes and 20 seconds of my five-minute post going through everything we've done. Many of these things are also proposed in the draft representative. It's a little pointless, because we've done a lot in those areas. That you disagree with some things, I accept. I guess we'll be in the future, too. The opposition has as its privilege to criticise the position, but does so on a factual and proper basis, at least. When it is said that we remove collective legal rights, remove all credibility, ‘all credibility’, in the government’s fight against social dumping, does that mean that the first two action plans of the government Stoltenberg did not have credibility because this was a proposal that was promoted in the spring of 2013? So it was only when credibility came out? This is a rhetoric that I expect both Kolberg and everyone else in this room to think is misleading. I also think it is a pity that we spend time on what was said five years ago in comments and in debates, when we are discussing such an important topic as organised labour-life crime. I can also get notes from when I was in opposition, about things that the then government parties opposed. The point must be that we now jointly find out how to meet this development, to take the cellars, fence them around the serious and get a safe, good and flexible working life for the future. That's what this government is concerned about, and I hope that a total accumulation can also join in and discuss this on those premises.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e3207	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e3210	The lower employment rate among immigrants is problematic, but it is a fact. It's important to say what it is, and not least it's important to say it here, from the pulpit of the Storting, to the economic liberal Rotevatn. The liberalist Rotevatn needs to hear it from Stortinget's pulpit. The representative of the Seven said that I had an interesting contribution, and I thank him for that, because the chairman of the Financial Committee has to strike a balance between revenue and expenditure in order to finance the welfare community. That's what we're talking about. Everyone is losing on an unsafe working life, and it's a tumor that develops," said the representative Syversen. I agree. Those are strong words, but I agree. It hasn't been like this for many years, and the questions are, what are the driving forces? Why is it going to be like this? There is an important debate in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e3219	State Council Eriksson once again says that he is surprised at this – when we disagree on ‘some things’. It's not "some things" it's about here. It's about the basic social analysis and understanding of what's the prerequisite for Norwegian workers to do well today and in the next generation. Then it's up to the political and government to protect the trade union movement – not get into it. It is the trade movement that has been the heavy representative of Norwegian workers in a historical perspective and that will also be in the future. This is where the crucial distinction goes between the right and the left in Norwegian policy. Earlier in the debate there were representatives who said that the major problem was the trade union movement's connection with the Workers' Party. Yes, then the whole thing is explained, because the trade union movement must have a social exposure if it is to be able to fulfil its role. The right-hand side has consistently fought against the political position of the trade union movement in society. They want it neutralised and want it to become a negotiating organisation that will not have this broad societal perspective. I wonder, then, about liberals, like, for example. The representative Rotevatn has thought through what it would mean for the development of capitalism in Norway if this had not happened. We never hear anything about that, despite the fact that we do it over and over and over again. Nobody says anything about it. The right-hand side is silent when we go into this part of the debate. So to this with temporaryity, which I have already mentioned, and what it will mean for the trade movement: Of course, it is absolutely vital for the trade movement that we do not get much temporaryity. Collective redress is fundamental in order for us to be able to protect workers locally. So it is said from the Progress Party that you have a plan for the locally elected trustees, and how can the Workers' Party's people oppose having a strengthened position? It again reveals that you are either ignorant of this – it may be – or you are deliberately not ignorant. The power of trade unions and workers depends on collective power. It is the prerequisite for the power of the trade union movement. If it is reduced, as the right-hand side wants, the power of the trade union movement becomes much weaker, and you get a different development of the working life and society as a whole. We don't want that, and that's why these discussions become as they become.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e3230	I think that in this debate I recognise a lot of the rhetoric of the election campaign on the civil side – we are so agreed, and we are going to stand together, and we are going to cooperate with one and the other. But nothing is said about what ‘we’ will cooperate on. It's just words without content for the time being, so we'll have to wait and see to the strategy from the Council of State. But we're based on what we've already learned, and not just in a distant past, but relatively recently. In this room, when we promoted a proposal for a representative against social dumping and the crime of working life in the transport industry, the representatives of the Transport Committee stood at this pulpit and rejected the fact that the issue of social dumping had something to do in the matter of poorly guarded trailers on Norwegian winter roads. It's not long ago, it's not even a year ago. So if we are to go through the measures already adopted against social dumping, the Right Party and the Progressive Party have voted against Action Plan No. 1, they have voted against the right of access of trustees, against the duty of passport, against the obligation of information, against the imposition of Norwegian conditions in municipal tenders in line with ILO Convention No. 94, against tightening employment rates between enterprises, against the seven-point strategy to strengthen labour rights internationally and against Action Plan No. 2 against social dumping, and in the next year's budget, a pen-stroke of 8 million was removed. kr from the tripartite cooperation which would be one of the tools to follow up Action Plan No. 3rd@item: inlistbox One has voted against joint responsibility, against collective redress – which is now being removed – against regional protection officers and against getting the first big business message in this room. The right-hand and the Progress Party were also not particularly involved in the evaluation of the first two action plans by Fafo. For what did they say the evaluations? Well, they said that where the fight against social dumping is giving the best results, there is the use of the nationwide device of schooled trust-elects who have a combined trade-union movement in their backs, just as Martin Kolberg was in the previous post. When we were in position, we were always told that we were doing too little, too late. But now we're doing too much, too early, in this area. We are still waiting for the measures of the government. Robert Eriksson says we should take the criminals. But who's gonna take them? Is it the trade union movement, or is it the Labour Inspectorate? How should a labour inspectorate even match a nationwide network of 60,000 schooled trustees? Now we've already seen one thing that you've been against before, collective redress falls. What other things that the Right and Advance Party have previously voted against will fall when the new strategy comes? We are excited about that, and we have not received an answer today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e3245	The representative Anette Trettebergstien has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e3249	The Council of State shows that he has just failed to understand why it is necessary to strengthen the position of skilled workers, those who are now in the process of being challenged by cheap, unskilled workers from abroad. Eriksson asks what we want to do with the problem, if we want to get out of the EEA. No, councillor, we don't have to leave the EEA. For the difference between the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, we know how we can take care of decent working life, treat workers in the same way as Norwegian workers, while the Progress Party has a different course where they stand with open eyes and look at the exploitation and price dumping and say that they are so touchingly agreed. The 22 measures we are proposing here today, plus the trade union commitment that we presented in our alternative budget, are just a response to the many thousands now working in industries that are threatened. The government's answer is to remove the badly needed tools that they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e3256	The representative Sveinung Rotevatn has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e3259	I would like to point out a fundamental logical failure in the reasoning of the representative Lundteigen. The representative answers me by saying that it is important to say that, the liberalist Rotevatn needs to right it. What I'm hearing is that the representative Lundteg is concerned about the employment of immigrants in Norway, and his answer is to have poorer access for those immigrant groups with the highest level of employment. It's not related, and I'm not sure who needs to hear it. So both the representative Lundteg and the representative of Kolberg use it to be liberal as a sort of clamor from the pulpit. To that I would say that if it's liberal to go ahead with the facts, if it's liberal to want to welcome Norway's people who want to work, if it's liberal to accept people who are on the run -- even if it can affect employment statistics -- then I'm proud to be liberal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e3266	The next speaker is the representative Stefan Heggelund, who is the last recorded. He now bears a great responsibility for not extending the debate. Here you go, Heggelund.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e3269	Thank you very much for your confidence. I don't think I deserve it. [[Laughter]] The Labour Party disagrees with the civil aspect of the need to have a constructive tone in the debate. There's a disagreement. Even the fact that I gave praise to the red-green parties, would be twisted and harpselled by the Trettebergstien. The representative of Kolberg really thinks it's a strategy to destroy the trade union movement. The self-declared eagle seems to be more important than embracing. It could have been interesting to ask how things have gone with the degree of organisation – after two periods of red-green government. The red-green parties believe that lower thresholds into the labour market will lead to labour-life crime. They believe that being able to agree more locally will lead to the crime of working life. It's got to be their assessment. The Trettebergstuen says we do not tolerate criticism, do not tolerate debate – yes, to the highest degree. At the same time, it says something about the willingness to cooperate when Trettebergstuen already says that she will not agree with what will be presented in a strategy against crime at work, which has been developed in dialogue and in cooperation with the parties. The red-green parties would like to claim that there is no dialogue with the social partners, but that does not mean that, for example: the summit where, inter alia: The Prime Minister was present, has not taken place. Saying something doesn't mean that suddenly it becomes reality -- A is A. During the reply I was a little surprised that I was not asked about any of the measures proposed by the Workers' Party in the proposal for a representative. I thought maybe there would be some curiosity on the part of the proposers for what the Right and others from the bourgeois side thought about the proposals. But then I can say that some of the proposals seem reasonable, others I might disagree with. At least I am pleased to have a thorough discussion on combating the crime of working life and social dumping when the strategy against the crime of working life comes. And then someone can choose to have a u-constructive tone, and then maybe others will choose to have a constructive tone. What I think is important is that we agree with the basics of these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e3286	I will not say that I will not extend the debate – as I have asked for a three-minute post and as I have already done so – but I will not try to contribute to the need for further answers. I just want to be allowed to comment on what I heard both Lundtigen and Kolberg said in relation to Left's Rotevatern. They didn't criticize being liberal. I heard that both of them used the term liberalist, but that's something else, and that was probably the whole point. Otherwise, if I add the good will, I think that there have been some positive comments considering that we need to do something about the serious situation that is with regard to social dumping and the crime of working life, because it's not that there's a small problem in society; it's a very social problem. I fully agree with the representatives of Syversen and Ropstad, who made good contributions. The silver characterized it as a ‘growth’ in society. There is a great danger to the development of our society if we don't do anything about it. Therefore, Christian People's Party representatives and others in the Financial Committee are cordially welcome to use our menu of proposals, if it fits into the otherwise reasonable proposal that the Christian People's Party itself has promoted. So it's not like it's been said here, that someone – at least from our side – has added opinions to the government parties, but we've pointed out that there are a number of proposals that have been put forward and adopted against social dumping, which the two government parties have voted against. It's an indication of the facts. That's why – despite a good article from Wenstøb and others – we don't think that when it comes to concrete content in what's coming, because it would be so different from what we've experienced up until now. But I hope that there will be an opportunity to find common solutions to such a huge social problem. Then I have to say that I think in many ways that we have had an incredibly interesting harvest, a harvest that has given us the opportunity to acquire knowledge and experience of what is especially with the Norwegian community. The OECD report points to the fact that not only is it good to live in a society with small differences but that it actually also contributes positively to productivity, and that greater differences in society are also a problem for the outcome of society, for productivity. We had not many days ago visited Thomas Piketty, who has contributed to the debate and demonstrated the growing difference in many societies around the world and pointed out that on the Norwegian side we should not go in the direction that we create greater differences. And we've had the NordMod report, which I think is very interesting, which analyses the peculiarities of the Nordic communities and the cooperation between the parties and the authorities. I think that this alone provides a good basis for initiating measures that are effective against social dumping. I am responding to the proposals of the Council of State, and we are going to contribute concrete measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e3301	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e3315	The first speaker is the representative Lise Christoffersen, who has a speaking time of up to 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e3318	I'm going to promise not to use all of them! I'm going to add a little comment to what's really a big deal. In the State budget for 2014, a Joint Committee agreed that the Solberg Government would continue the long-term and systematic improvement work of the Labour and Welfare Administration initiated by the Government of Stoltenberg II. However, during the period between the submission by the Stoltenberg II Government of the State budget for 2014 and the presentation by the government of its additional proposal, it became known that the modernisation programme for ICT was closed because it had not worked properly. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV then asked the government to inform the Storting as soon as possible about the extent to which the latest developments would have consequences for the service provision in Nav. On questions from the Labour Party last November, the State Council replied that this would not have any consequences for the implementation of the disability reform from 1 January 2015. In Document 15:104 the same year, the Council of State elaborated its response and pointed out that the closure of the ICT modernisation project was an organisational transformation that did not lead to changes in the overall objectives of ICT modernisation, namely – and that is what is important – the development of user-friendly and efficient, and self-serviced solutions in the various performance areas managed by Nav. In retrospect, a hearing has been conducted under the authority of the Control and Constitutional Committee on this matter. We have also seen that the management in Altin has been out and asserted that they already have many of the solutions that Nav needs to automate the processing process and introduce self-service and electronic dialogue solutions for the individual performances of the public interest. The Council of State has assured us in Stortinget that this issue will be assessed in the context of the decisions to be taken in the future, and that is reassuring. The 2015 budget stated that the government would come back to Stortingen with an updated cost calculation for revised Project 1 and the plans for Project 2 of the ICT modernisation programme in relation to the proposal we are currently considering, on changes to the State budget for 2014. However, in the case we are now dealing with, it is stated that this review of the status has been postponed to the presentation of the revised national budget for 2015, but this suspension is not further justified. Probably there is no drama in this, but it would have been interesting if the Council of State could take advantage of the opportunity to clarify what causes the case to be exposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e3329	Only two comments. One's on the loose. 2541, Day money. The Ministry proposes to increase the amount of daily allowance by 100 million. kr. In the balance budget adopted in the Stortinget in the autumn of 2013, there was an allocation of 10.9 billion. kr, after the estimate has been corrected for regulatory changes increased by 200 million. kr in the 2014 supplementary proposal. In the course of the revision of the budget in spring, estimates increased by about 500 million. SEK to a total of 11,4 billion. kr, and then the promise for 2015 has increased further to 12.4 billion. kr, which is in accordance with the Government's proposal for the allocation. The centre party will stress that the increase in the appropriations for daily allowances in the last year shows a deterioration in the labour market. Against this background, there is reason to believe that additional funds for daily allowances will have to be allocated in 2015 in the revised national budget to take account of the developments we are in. The next point that I want to comment on is cap. 2661, Basic and auxiliary aid, aids. The Ministry proposes to reduce the capped allocation. 2661, item 74 with 60 million. kr. In the balance budget adopted in the Stortinget in the autumn of 2013, there was an allocation of 810 million. kr. In the examination of the revised budget in spring, the budget was reduced by 20 million. SEK, to SEK 790 million. kr. I would like to emphasise what the Riksrevision has said in Document 3:1 for 2013-2014 in connection with the conclusion of the case on the car welfare system, where it pointed out that there is still too much of the issues that are not dealt with within a normal time. It is therefore very important for the Ministry to give priority to issues relating to the car-suppression scheme, that it be dealt with within a normal time, so that we get the situation where the allocation is used up, for the many who need it. I hope that the Council of State has an eye for that, so that we do not get into the situation that the appropriations are being reduced because one does not get to deal with the cases in which a legitimate person is to be compensated.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e3338	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox Case No. 11–20 is the second reading of legislative acts, and the President will propose that these be dealt with together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e3454	No one has asked to speak on the matter. 11-20.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e3460	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e3463	There was a vote on case No. 1 earlier in the meeting. In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e3472	All nine proposals have been put forward for this matter. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Marianne Marthinsen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, 3–5, by Sveinung Rotevatern on behalf of the Left-wing proposal No. 6-9, from Snorre Serigstad Valen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party In order to reduce the number of votes cast in this case, the President, after convening with the members of the Financial Committee, will propose a unified voting order. The main positions of the various batches are clear from the settings of the settings and are shown in addition to the Input. 2 S for 2014-2015 and Innst. 3 S for 2014-2015. This will in practice mean that when we have voted on all the minority proposals, none of the parties will vote against the vote's recommendation. The President will stress the natural assumption that when the parties accept such voting practices, this should not be used against a party on a later occasion. No objection has been raised against the President's proposal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to review the reform in order to find a long-term solution for those who experience a reduction in net income from 1 January 2015.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e3507	It is then voted on proposals 8-9 from the Socialist Left. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a proposal to exempt electric bicycles from VAT.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: «The government is asked to return to Stortinget with a proposal to introduce VAT on financial services and a tax on margin revenue, in line with the model described in Prop. 1 LS Taxes, duties and duties 2014.’; The Greens have announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e3531	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a proposal for zero VAT on newspapers in both paper and digital versions, with a view to their introduction from 1 July 2015.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e3550	There is a vote on the proposals 3 to 5 from the Left. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘In Law No 19 June 2009 58 on value added tax is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e3626	There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to notify a zero-VAT scheme for digital media’.» The Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e3645	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner with a precise presentation of proposals for the 2015 government budget on chapters and items where VAT is normally carried without neutral VAT.’ The Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e5225	The titles of the laws and of the laws in their entirety are to be suffocated
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e5235	Law decisions will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e5242	A total of 25 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Truls Wickholm on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Central Party, proposals No. 2 and 3, by Truls Wickholm on behalf of the Workers' Party, 4-6, by Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposals No. 7-14, by Mr Slagsvold Vedum, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on the proposals Nos. 15-20, by Sveinung Rotevatern on behalf of the Left-wing proposal No. 21–25, from Snorre Serigstad Valen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 22, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget in connection with the presentation of the 2016 State Budget with proposals for a new progressive inheritance tax.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e5279	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 21 and proposals Nos. 23–25, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The size requests the government to investigate the arrangements and consequences of a possible special deduction for work travel by bicycle or by foot.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a proposal to remove the oil investment exemption and to introduce neutral depreciation rules.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a stepping-up plan for fossil fuel oil charges up to the Swedish level, including an agricultural compensation scheme.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asked to increase the annual depreciation rate for industry balances to 30 pst. to stimulate more green investment.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e5312	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15, 17, 19 and 20, from the left. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to evaluate how the Tax Fund Scheme can be set up in order to contribute better to research and development also for larger enterprises.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to strengthen the Tax Find Scheme by removing the rule that, in the case of staff and indirect costs, the number of hours for its own employees is limited to a maximum of 1850 hours per year. years.’» Proposal No. 19 reads: «The government is asked to reintroduce the Unremunerated Research Effort Scheme.» Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate as soon as possible and to propose the introduction of an environmental tax on air travel to and from Norwegian airports according to the German model.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e5345	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 16 and 18, from the left. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government requests the strengthening of the Tax Find Scheme by increasing the maximum hourly rate rule.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to introduce an additional criterion for the deduction of the Tax Fund scheme related to R & D relating to climate, environment and energy efficiency.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e5368	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7-9 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to establishing a ROT deduction to combat black economy and labour crime in the construction industry.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a legislation on the introduction of bottom-up deductions in taxes on the packaging of beverages and disposable packaging for beverages.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a code with a lower limit/bottom-down on the chocolate and sugar levy, equivalent to a consumption of 3000 kg per year.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e5394	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10, 11 and 14 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The decision asks the government in drawing up the detailed rules for the plastic bag charge to ensure that bags based on bioplastics are exempted from the charge.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government in drawing up the details of the plastic bag charge to ensure that paper bags are exempted from the charge.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: «The Government is asked to draw up proposals for the necessary legislation for an activity tax levied on profits and salaries, etc. for financial corporations with a rate of 5 pst.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e5422	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12 and 13, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to assess the consequences of removing the threshold of VAT registration in the fight against the black economy, as has been the case with the NHO’.» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government, in cooperation with business organisations, asks the government to assess the impact of increasing the turnover limit for online commerce, or alternatively to set the limit to zero, with regard to the loss of Norwegian VAT and Norwegian jobs.’ The Socialist Left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e5445	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4–6, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals for improvements to the country-by-country reporting regulation to ensure the necessary transparency, including proposals to ensure a stronger link between country-by-country reporting and annual accounts.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to extend the law on country-by-country reporting so that the companies concerned also have to report on their activities in countries where they have support functions, including tax havens.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to extend the purpose of the Land-by-Land Reporting Act to include tax evasion.’ The Labour Party and the Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e5473	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to decide and to make proposals on how to label alcoholic beverages in the same way as other foods.’ The Socialist Left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e5491	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for proposals for a more accurate chocolate and sugar levy.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e5510	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the green write-down mechanism for renewable energy technology neutral’.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e5526	We will then vote on the proposal for a decision in the vote, and we will find it on the pages from 82 to 114 in the vote. In the same way as in case No. 1, which we voted on at the beginning of today's meeting, in order to let go of one to some complicated and comprehensive voting, we will undertake an overall voting throughout the vote proposal for a decision. This implies that none of the parties will vote against. The President will stress the natural assumption that when the parties accept such voting practices, this should not be used against anyone on a later occasion. The same applies to voting on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox Before referring to the suspension, the proposal for a decision needs to be corrected: On page 112 of the cancellation, under the fee proposal ‘On the environmental tax on plastic bags and paper bags’, Section 2(c) shall be amended by numbering the word ‘diplomas’ by 1. 1 and 2 shall be amended as follows: Two and three.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e11155	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Truls Wickholm on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 2, by Truls Wickholm on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left 3, by Truls Wickholm on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 4, by Trygve Slagsvold Vedum on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposals No. 5-7, by Mr Slagsvold Vedum, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on proposal No. 8, from Snorre Serigstad Valen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The President reminds us that we vote in the same way in this case as in the previous one. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2015 is authorised under: Chapter.PostFormsCroner2421Innovation Norway95Capital equity, seed funds8 500 000 0005999State loan funds90Loans143 437 051 000» The voting boards showed that 98 votes were cast against and 5 votes in favour of the proposal of the Socialist Left Party. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 21.53.07]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e11247	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e11252	I also voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e11257	Several were found to be wrong. Let's try one more time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e11268	There is a vote on proposal No. Five from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2015 is authorised under: Chapter.PostFormsCroner161Industry development95Norfund190 000 000 0002412The House Bank90Loans from the House Bank20 469 000 0005999State loan funds90Loans134 747 051 000»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e11354	There is a vote on proposal No. Six, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the Central Statistical Bureau continues its activities in Kongsvinger at least at the current level, so that an important environment of competence in this city is not gradually centralised into Oslo.’ The Socialist Left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e11372	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to follow the Bank’s lending closely and to return to the Storting with proposals for increased lending frameworks in the revised national budget if this is necessary to meet the demand for loans.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e11390	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2015 is authorised under: Chapter.PostDestinationCroner5312The House Bank90Deduction16 000 000 ’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e11446	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2015 proposes the following amendments: Chapter.PostFormsCroner342Church construction and burial sites90Rent compensation church construction500 000 0002430Akselator programme for entrepreneurs90Lending250 000 0005999State loan funds90Lending138 705 051 000»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e11532	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2015 proposes the following amendments: Chapter.PostFormsCroner2412The House Bank90The loan from the House Bank23 216 000 000’»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e11589	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to reverse the proposals to introduce neutral VAT in the public sector and to implement a comprehensive amendment to the draft government budget in line with this reversal.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e11605	We shall then vote on the motion for a resolution. The President refers to the presentation of the previous case and that we are also doing an overall vote here under the same clear condition that it is not used against anyone on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e14003	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e14010	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Eirik Sivertsen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 2, by Heidi Greni, on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left, proposal No. 3, by Heidi Greni on behalf of the Central Party, on the proposals No. 4–6, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party In the course of the debate, proposal No. 2, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, drawn, and it will therefore not come to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e14028	First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 4–6, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for new guidelines for the selection of quota refugees through the UN High Commissioner for Refugees for the Grand Duchy for decision as soon as possible, on the basis that refugees with the greatest need are given priority first and that split families can be included in the quota.’ [[UNHCR]] Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that family members who have a residence permit in Norway receive their own allowance.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an additional 123 quota refugees with high needs to come to Norway in the current year’. The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e14056	There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to draw up guidelines for the selection of quota refugees through the UN High Commissioner for Refugees [[UNHCR]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e14072	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the 123 quota refugees, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, requested Norway to accept and were rejected due to their refusal. assumed lack of capacity in municipalities, has received protection and necessary health care in other countries. [[UNHCR]] If this is not the case, these refugees shall come to Norway.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e14104	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Dag Terje Andersen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 2-6, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 2–6, from the Centre Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The majority of the government proposes changes to the promises that ensure that there can be a maximum of two contract elements in public procurement, irrespective of whether they are the contract members organised vertically or horizontally.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Swedish Government proposes that public purchasers should require Norwegian wage and working conditions from their suppliers.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The majority bet the government propose changes to the corresponding legislation ensuring a minimum of 25 per cent self-production by the main contractor’. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The size of the government proposes a change in the Working Environment Act which ensures that permanent additions are to pay employees even if employers do not have a job for employees.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asked the government to strengthen compliance with the principle of non-discrimination for hired workers from crew companies and to prevent circumvention using notional contract prices.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e14150	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government, in cooperation with the social partners, is asked to prepare and submit to the Stortinget an action plan against social dumping and crime at work in Norway, which should include the following measures and instruments: Strengthen the role of the social partners and stimulate an increase in the level of organisation of employers and workers, for example by increasing the trade-union deduction. Improvement of the public utility scheme, for example by simplifying the documentation requirement. Establish a strong plan to strengthen and coordinate the efforts of official control agencies and the police against social dumping and crime at work. Strengthening the Labour Inspectorate, for example with new instruments, establishing ‘first-line supervision’, several unannounced supervision, reinforced sanctions and increased financial frameworks. Create and operate a tip and alert phone — with opening hours 0600–2400 — on social dumping and work-life crime under the direction of the Labour Inspectorate. Strengthening Petroleum Supervision, for example with new instruments, several unannounced supervision, reinforced sanctions and increased financial frameworks. Increase the penalties and fines for social dumping and labour crime and improve the criminal justice chain in these kinds of cases. Suggest changes to the Foreign Affairs Act so that anyone who exploits a foreigner’s situation improperly can be punished. Strengthen legislation and practice to avoid ‘bankruptcy riders’. Information on ‘bankruptcy riders’ needs to be made more widely available between the registers of public agencies. To require a maximum of two stages in the contract chain in public tenders. Reasons shall be given for any deviation. Demand for a minimum of 25 per cent self-production by the main contractor. Public purchasers must require the seriousness and orderly pay and working conditions of all their suppliers, such as improved documentary checks, tax and tax certificates, checks against the employee register, the VAT register, etc. Introduce apprenticeship clauses in public procurement, i.e. that establishments supplying to the public sector must demonstrate that they have an apprenticeship scheme and that they have apprentices employed on projects where possible. Develop better document and ID control systems, for example when issuing D-numbers, and consider using ID cards in several industries. Develop more and more targeted sectoral programmes/schemes, for example in the fishing industry. Establish a new central approval and register system for the construction industry and establish a qualification register and associated measures – in line with the proposals in the report ‘Simple to be serious’ from BNL [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 21.59.07]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e14234	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e16247	Case No. 11–20 is the second time legal proceedings are under way. There are no suggestions for comments in any of the cases. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-15.ana.ud2571e16375	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
