ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e30	The called alternate of the Nord-Trøndelag County, Jorid Holstad Normelan, has taken the seat. The representative, Martin Kolberg, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e35	On behalf of the representatives Knut Storberget, Marit Arnstad, Per Olaf Lundteigen, Karin Andersen and myself, I would like to propose price control in the concession law for agricultural properties.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e40	The representative, Mr Breivik, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e43	On behalf of the representatives of Sveinung Rotevatn, Abid Q. Raja and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a joint review of the Fosterheimsorga.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e48	The representative of Mr Lene Vågslid will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e51	I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of Christian Tynning Bjørnø, Tove Karoline Knutsen, Stine Renate Håheim, Lise Christoffersen, Sonja Mandt, Knut Storberget, Torstein Tvedt Solberg, Kari Henriksen and myself to make the use of children's homes compulsory and to strengthen children's homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e56	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e70	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that three replies be given following submissions from the main speakers of the parties and five replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e79	The matter we are going to deal with is a valuablely important matter. There are proposals from SV and a recommendation from the Health and Care Committee not to extend the reservation rights of doctors as regards referral to abortion, prescription printing on pills or referral to assisted fertilisation. As rapporteur of the case, I would first of all like to speak for a good and thorough consideration in the committee and thank you for all the good input we received in the consultation in Stortinget. As the President is probably aware, this is a matter that splits this hall almost in the middle. I therefore want to use my short, measured time to argue for the views of the minority, including the views of the Workers' Party. I have to say that I have rarely been involved in a matter – during at least my ten years of policy in Norway – that has created so much commitment and so strong reactions among so many, whether it be people you meet on the street, health workers, in meetings, in debates, on social media – everywhere the debate is going strongly. I think it's because the matter touches on something fundamental in us, it's rocking at some fundamental values in society: conscience, equivalency and women's right to decide for themselves over their own bodies. Therefore, it is also important for me to say something about the matter itself, from our point of view. In the view of the majority and the Labour Party, the right of the woman to self-determined abortion is fundamental. She has to decide for herself. For us, the patient's right to equivalent services is also fundamental. The patient should know that when she goes to the hospital, she gets professional and professional information and guidance, and she is referred to the health services she is entitled to and required by Norwegian law, regardless of where you live or who you are. It is necessary for women who come to their firmness to feel fully secure in order to receive the assistance they require. In an equivalent healthcare service, there is no doubt that it is the responsibility of the prescriber to provide patients with the healthcare they require and that the care services should represent a universal offer to the entire population. Having said that, I understand that this can be difficult for many, and I understand that some occupational groups, for example. in this context, decision-makers may have conscientious qualms when faced with difficult ethical choices. It is then our job as politicians to weigh conflicting considerations against each other and make us an opinion on what should weigh more heavily when making difficult decisions. For the Workers' Party, it is quite clear in this case that the consideration of women's right to health care – which has been decided to have the right of this Chamber many decades ago – is ahead of the individual doctor's conscience and freedom. Then you should simply find another job. There has been a lot of debate on this issue, and it probably does not end here today, for the new government, the Right Party Government, has sent a new proposal on how this should be done at the hearing. That is why we will probably get the matter back at some point. However, I think there is reason to point out that the reason we have this discussion is that the new government with the Right in the head has gone beyond what they promised to the electors and Norwegian women before the election, namely that it was not appropriate to introduce what is called the right of reservation – the right of reservation and the right of referral, there are people who call it, and some call it the right of reservation. This has gradually got quite a number of names. The reason for this is that the matter has become unpleasant. Then we try to make a proposal that will meet many of the contradictions that have arisen in the public debate. I believe that the proposal sent to the hearing is not an answer to the questions raised. I think, for example, that many people react to the fact that no matter how many demands the Council of State Höie is going to submit to the final law against the municipalities and the doctors, I am afraid that women who experience the situation are demanding and difficult. Some places in Norway are at risk of coming to a doctor who says, ‘Sorry, I can’t help you, you’ll get an hour elsewhere within 24 hours within acceptable travel distance’ – because the woman, who has not examined the patient in advance if the doctor has reserved. I think that is unacceptable in a modern society. It's unacceptable on behalf of the women. That is why I believe that we should already today confirm in Stortinget that this is an out-of-date proposal for the government to go further. Finally, I would like to say that I recommend all the representatives of the Workers' Party and others who have to feel the call, to vote according to their own conscience. It's a little funny for a lot of people to feel that in a case that's just about questions of conscience for some groups of professionals, those who themselves have problems of conscience in this case are not allowed to vote according to their own conscience.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e100	The President shall assume that the representative shall make proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e103	Yes, I'm sorry, President. I have to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e108	The representative of Torgeir Mikalsen has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e113	The representative, Mikalsen, acknowledges that the issue of referral to abortion is difficult for a few doctors. Today's practice has shown that some doctors reserve the right to refer to abortion, and that the woman does not know until she comes to the doctor's office. This is precisely what the proposal we are going to debate for the autumn will allow us to solve. Does the representative Micaelsen think that today's practice is good, and that it's okay for us that women experience coming to the doctor's office without any transparency that the doctor wants such a reservation?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e120	No, what I think is not acceptable, and that is not good enough. That is why the previous government sent a new circular to the municipalities of the country asking for a strong intensification that this is to be seen as not allowed behaviour for doctors who receive significant financial contributions from the public to do a job on behalf of the public. The question is, if this is still a problem – and that might indicate that it is – what should be the answer? My and the Workers' Party's response to this is that we should make it even more clear that the government is given the task of tightening the practice of some municipalities and stating once and for all that this is not allowed, and that is why this should not happen. The problem with the government is that this is not what you propose. Instead, we are proposing a very comprehensive and bureaucratic new system to do what many of us think is illegal today, legally, with the blessing of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party here in the Stortinget. I don't think that's worth a modern society.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e129	The working party says in its own comments: ‘These members indicate that it is uncertain how many women choose not to stand up with unpleasant meetings of decision-makers who clearly did not want to refer to services the woman herself has wanted.’ There have been three complaints in all these years, and after this case came in the media, several women have told me that they have experienced the same thing, but did not want to complain. Then the problem becomes: if there is no complaint, we will never find out who has this conscience option in terms of abortion. Then my question to the Workers' Party is: why is it so important for the Workers' Party to continue a secret rather than leave it open for the woman to choose a doctor who has reservations of conscience, or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e141	There's several reasons for that. First of all, there are many girls and women who don't have a very conscious relationship with who they are as regular, simply because they get the same decision as for example. Mother has, in early childhood. I think there are very few women who go around and plan to get pregnant involuntarily, and who therefore don't necessarily get into and go into a health management page that the state has set up, in order to investigate what the doctor himself is assigned, is operating on different levels of conscience. That's why I think it's us as leaders in Norway – The Great Britain, the government – who should put us in the front and say that women experience such episodes as the representative of Kjønaas Kjos refers to is unacceptable, and that it's not allowed to do so. Then you have to find another job. I believe that this should also be the answer in this case, and I regret, of course, that there are few who stand up. More should dry to do it. But I also understand a little bit that it is uncomfortable to stand up with unpleasant experiences when those who now control the country say that the unpleasant experiences of course should not take place, but that the doctor who has exposed them to it should be able to continue to be regular in Norway just not meet people who are going to have references to abortion.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e150	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e154	In this case, SV asks the government not to extend the reservation rights of permanent residents in relation to referring to abortion, contraception or assisted conception. According to current legislation and guidelines, no decision-makers in Norway can oppose any of these three factors. Unfortunately, however, media images, contacts with us and stories from women have shown that there is a completely different practice. For almost 40 years, decision-makers have practised a custom right to reservation without any transparency around it. It's a practice our government wants to clean up. What are we actually discussing? Firstly, the Government will not impose any medical reservation right, either in the case of reference to abortion, contraception or reference to assisted conception. But in the question of referring to abortion, we know that there is a majority on the Storting to establish a reservation facility according to given assumptions. The Health Minister’s proposals are now being consulted and will be discussed in Stortinget during the autumn of 2014. We want to respect the broad consultation that is going on and to await the proposal that is coming. Then we can debate the content and the device of the reservation – not now. In 2012, 15 216 abortions were carried out in Norway. That was 127 fewer than the year before. It is positive that there is a significant decrease in the number of abortions among women under 20 years of age. In fact, the figures for 2012 are lower than ever since registration started in 1979. This is due to an increasingly better prevention work, so that unwanted pregnancies can be avoided. There are many people here who make an important effort: the school through sexual information, the health sisters through being a youth guidance and conversation partner, and we have other skilled contributors in centres such as Sex and society and others that carry out important information and guidance work. We are all concerned with good measures that can help young girls avoid getting into such a vulnerable situation as an unwanted pregnancy is, especially when prevention is more available today than before. But when women are in difficult situations related to pregnancy, it is important for us that they have many and easily accessible access roads into the auxiliaries. The determining factor is the most important point for us patients. A regular said to me that the careful conversation with the doctor will not go off. At the discretion of the local authority, women seek advice on what is practical in the event of an interruption of pregnancy, how the intervention is done, and what kind of follow-up they receive afterwards. But the conversation is just as much about what opportunities the woman has to carry the child forward. The decision-makers nevertheless have few abortion consultations in the year – perhaps one, two or three. A lot has changed since the abortion law came in 1978. Health services are more developed and accessible to abortion-seeking women than before. Most women seeking abortion are entitled to hospital treatment, and young girls are more likely to seek advice from health sisters at school and in a health centre for young people. It wasn't like that 40, 30 or 20 years ago. The central question in this very heated debate is: is the time now ripe to give a few individuals the same right to follow their consciences that doctors and health professionals in hospitals have had for nearly 40 years? I believe yes and I am pleased that the government has put forward a proposal for such a reservation – a proposal that fully respects women's right to abortion, which clears up today's unwanted practices in many places where there is no transparency about which doctors reserve and who recognize doctors' freedom of conscience in matters of life and death. In this case, the political left has shown that their tolerance for others is limited to those who believe and believe the same thing as themselves. It's not surprising. Perhaps the tyranny of the majority has always been the characteristics of the left-hand side. But the main characteristics of democracy are the way we treat the minority. Once the government has drawn up a proposal for a solution that fully respects women's rights and doctors' freedom of thought, freedom of conscience and freedom of religion, we, as a society, are obliged by human rights to contribute to this. That's exactly what tolerance is. I would recommend that everyone who wants to do so vote against this proposal for a representative. That will be done by the Right and the Advance Party, and it is a majority in the Committee for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e175	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e178	The MMI study carried out by the Online Newspaper, which was published on Tuesday, shows that two out of three women are opposed to the government's proposal to allow firm refusal of referral to abortion. Once again, we hear both members of the government and representatives from the Right say that it's because of the impression that's created, that people don't really know what this is all about. I don't think people have that hard to understand. I think that most people think that women should get the help they need, by their decision maker. So my question is: Does the representative – as the Minister of Health – believe that women do not know what they themselves think, that women really want, is a regulatory change, or a change of laws, that opens up to the firm to refuse referral to abortion?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e187	The situation is that in 2011 the former government sent out a circular stating that there was no opportunity for permanent residents to make reservations, and then nothing was done to clean up the practice that is out in the municipalities. And we're concerned that women should have full openness around which doctors want a reservation. There is a significant difference between the practices of the former government and what this government is doing, namely that there is now an open debate on this. It's a consultation proposal that's out there, which allows everyone to get their say on this matter. A decision has not been made in Oslo, which is tucked down over the rest of the country. There's a free debate, there's a lot of consultation, and then this case comes back to Stortinget, and then we're going to discuss the device.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e192	I do not feel that I get an answer to my question. I ask you one more time: does the representative believe that women who have responded to these investigations, don't know what they mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e197	I think women know what it's about. What I'm concerned about is that we should unite two, or three, very important reasons, namely to ensure women's rights fully, that we create transparency about the practices that are not transparent today, and that we can give doctors freedom in this important question of conscience – the few doctors that it's about. These are the three reasons that it is important for us to take care of in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e202	What a glorious irony that the Right Party, which is partying this through the Storting, contrary to its own national meeting decision, is teaching the opposition in the term ‘tyranny of the majority’! So this is the party that last year was campaigning not to introduce this, and that is now from the pulpit later like this is a great idea, such a nice idea that they were campaigning against it. It limits itself to total dishonesty. The dream could as well have stood on the pulpit and been honest and said that what the Right has done is to sell a stand to the Christian People's Party in exchange for political influence. I would like to give the Trøen a new opportunity to answer the question from Vågslid: What is the Right and the representative of the Trøen have understood, as 79 pst. by Norwegian women have not understood?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e209	Let me first correct: the right is against a right of reservation for doctors. We've been doing that all along. This is not what the matter is about, the matter is about a reservation option. Politics is often about good compromises. I believe that this point in the cooperation agreement with the Christian People's Party creates a good solution, clearing up into a practice that the red-green government has not even cleaned up. When it comes to the question of women's understanding of this, I'm absolutely convinced that women understand this. Women have a very conscious relationship with their health, and that's why we also see that women have a very conscious relationship with where they are looking for help. Most women go directly to hospitals. Many young women use the health centre. There is broad, available information on where to get help to stop unwanted pregnancy. I'm convinced that women are also going to have a future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e216	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e219	Today we are going to deal with an SV representative proposal, supported by the Workers' Party and the Left, which says that: ‘The Government is asked to maintain the clarification that there is no right to refuse referral to abortion, contraception, assisted fertilisation or other normal procedures.’ This is actually a strange suggestion because no parties have communicated plans for any such change. For me, it's a bit like suggesting that the Storting should ask the government to keep the clarification that it's not allowed to smoke or inject heroin into the public space just because they're discussing injection rooms or heroin-assisted treatment. And it was just this that became the problem. The government sends out to the hearing a proposal to introduce an option for decision-makers to apply to their municipality to make reservations on matters of life and death — not a right, not an opportunity to refuse to print out contraception, not an opportunity to make reservations on the basis of assisted conception, nor any other possibility of reserving for ‘other normal procedures’, as it is so widely called. That is why the debate, the hearing and all the enquiries have been about something quite different from what is actually going on. The Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party have dragged the debate so far that they have even claimed that the abortion law is in danger, despite the fact that no one has called for a reversal of the abortion law. I regret that we have not had the opportunity to debate what this is really about, but that it has been about everything else on the contrary. That's why it's also going to be quite special when the SV in its proposal says that it ‘in an open and liberal society, it is important that individuals have personal opinions and act in harmony with them, even when they are contrary to the views of the majority. It is important to have tolerance for the variety of values’.» There is absolutely nothing in the debate that has been going on, which reflects this very fact. Rather, on the contrary, I think there are used characteristics and claims about the booking doctors that are directly unworthy. It's simply very lonely, and there's no great tolerance for not going along with the majority. It is tough done by the few doctors who have chosen to stop, ask questions and raise the debate. The debate boils down to two points. On the one hand, women's right to a health service, to which she is entitled in relation to Norwegian law, and on the other hand, a doctor's ability to act in line with her conscience on matters of life and death. Today, it is not possible for patients to know if they practice any form of reservation. This means that women, above all, in a difficult and vulnerable situation, are at risk of meeting a moral condemnation from the settler, or a blatant rejection, after making a difficult choice. Therefore, we should be concerned with openness, information and freedom of choice for the patient. The Medical Council said at the hearing that it is best for the woman to meet a doctor who does not have a deep conscience conflict with abortion. The doctor's choice of words and how the conversation is conducted, posture, vocal loss, etc., may be crucial for whether the woman feels hurt or goes out with a sense of being well cared for and safe at the choice she has made. In a doctor with a conflicty relationship with abortion, the consultation would easily be painful, no matter how neutral the doctor strives to be. This has been an important approach for my part. I have faith that doctors can do things professionally, while at the same time recognizing that in many ways I have met people who are supposed to be neutral, but who, with their manner of being and expression, have clearly said something else. We're not machines, we're humans. The number of complaints against current practices over more than 30 years can be counted in one single unit. The numbers that have been communicated are three complaints of 600 000 abortion processes. So then the question is, is this at all a problem, or is what someone has said, that women have not wanted to make a complaint? If the latter is correct, it is even more important to introduce something other than the practices that have been in place for decades now. That is why I do not understand what the proposers want. On the one hand, they say that it is unacceptable that women have to deal with a reservation doctor, and that women do not complain, and on the other hand, the proposers will continue the practice that seems unacceptable. This must be very contradictory. If you were really concerned about women in this context, you should wish that women could make their own choices – to give women a knowledge of their doctor's position and give her the right to choose another. I have great problems seeing how openness, honesty and freedom of choice can be perceived as something negative. I will attend the debate when the matter comes back to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e257	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e261	The Progress Party has been very quiet in this debate until now, but I have a simple question. I have very often heard the slogan of the Advance Party to create a simpler everyday life for most people. Then I am amazed at how they manage to identify themselves more with a few doctors, who want to maintain well-paid fixed-term positions, rather than all the women who are very uncertain about whether the doctor and the health service they meet will take care of the health service that we have adopted in this room that will apply to everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e268	The freedom of choice may be the highest in the Advance Party, and the freedom of choice to know the attitude of your own firmer was the basis for us to settle this matter a year ago. Choosing certain ones is very easy. And because you like simple weekdays and short distances, most people travel directly to the hospital. We don't think this is difficult, but we want openness, freedom and freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e275	It is quite outrageous to hear that the Progress Party does not see what they are doing now, is to put the doctor’s right in front of the woman’s right to a health service she is entitled to, and that it is necessary that the health service that meets them meet them with one voice. I can understand that someone wants the right to reservation, but to make it a right for anyone determined to be firm, I believe is a great misunderstanding of the concept of ‘freedom of choice’. The second is that this unprincipled proposal that is now being consulted does not even ensure it. It doesn't ensure that women don't have to go to a doctor who has these attitudes, either because the local government has said no to this scheme, or because there is no other doctor that the patient can go to. How can the representative claim that this should ensure that women come to a doctor who will treat them?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e284	If the local government does not decide to introduce a reservation option, they depreciate the woman’s right to find out which doctors are reserve doctors. I fully agree with that. Therefore, I had hoped that the municipalities would actually accept these applications, so that it could be open to everyone who is a doctor in their municipality who is a reservation doctor. I want the municipalities to choose that. It is the woman's right that has stood highest for me in this matter. I'll be honest with you. I have spoken to the booking doctors, and after talking to them and with women who have met a doctor who they did not know had that attitude, and who have told me about the experience it has been for him, it became important for me to say that transparency gives a strengthened right to the woman.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e291	It's quite remarkable to hear the argument that's now being used, because now we're living in a rather heterogeneous society, where there are different religious, moral and traditional reasons that can be very strong beliefs of the individual. It will be reflected throughout our health care system that they are present. And what the Progress Party and the government are doing now is legitimizing that the health professionals' personal beliefs should be able to come into contact with the patient when they ask for a service that they are legally entitled to. How can the Progress Party feel it is right to open up such an opportunity to make reservations on different types of grounds and even to allow this view to be taken in contact with the patient? Isn't that what should be stopped – not allowing something that is illegal today?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e298	I find it strange that SV is so terribly concerned by the doctor all the time. I am occupied with the woman, and when the woman tells them that they experience unfortunate encounters with her doctor, it is important to give the woman the opportunity to choose another doctor. SV wants this to continue in the back room, with ignorance of the others. That's what happened. We now have stories later. There have been three complaints in 40 years, and now suddenly the women come and tell about the unpleasant experience. So we're going to keep saying, "Yes, it was very sad that you've experienced it this way." We don't want it to be like this, but we don't want to change the system. If you want to give women the right to choose, you actually have to make some changes, and that's what we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e305	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e308	This case is based on an agreement between the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party in the fall, where we agreed to facilitate a reservation possibility where it was professional and practical. This is a matter that is important to many, and it has created an incredible number of hard debates. That is why this proposal for a representative also appeared in the hope of stopping this agreement between the three parties. I even think it has sometimes been a hard debate. I and the Christian People's Party understand and respect that this is an important matter, and I have a deep desire to be involved in both this debate today and the one who comes to the harvest and try to understand why others think anything other than me. I'll think respectfully and actually be considerate. What is this matter of Christian People's Party? For the Christian People's Party, this is a struggle in which we believe that freedom of conscience is a fundamental value, rooted in the growth, tradition, religion and culture of individuals. There's nothing we can't decide from or decide over. This also shows both the Council of Europe and the United Nations as an important principle. This case has been associated with abortion, printing pills and referring to assisted fertilisation. The agreement of the Christian People's Party, Right and Advance Party does not apply to the pill or to the reference to assisted conception. It concerns issues related to life and death. Abortion is a difficult matter – not least for the woman. However, abortion is also linked to questions of life and death for some. That's why they don't want to refer to abortion, because of their own conscience. For the Christian People's Party, this debate is not about rematching the abortion law, although I hear that someone believes it. The law of abortion is enshrined in this debate. The number of abortions will not decrease even if doctors have a reservation option. Then we have other solutions to discuss, and the Christian People's Party likes to be involved in a debate on how to bring down the 15 000 abortions. We can now easily get lost in technical debates about how far the conscience is going to go in the hospitals and outside the hospitals, by references or by direct intervention. What are the questions of life and death? Here we have different starting points. For the Christian People's Party, it's not the abortion law we're discussing. We're discussing how we can, on the one hand, uphold the woman's right to health care when it comes to referring to abortion, which actually also recognizes the Christian People's Party, while at the same time caring for the few doctors who have a basis for conscience, and who want an opportunity to reserve themselves, on the other hand. There has never been any doubt that women will meet with professionalism, guidance, help, care and respect, while at the same time ensuring a reservation opportunity. Women and patients can meet health professionals who do not meet them well professionally, who do not meet them with respect, who do not meet them with care, who meet them degradingly. If there is such a health care professional, regardless of the case the patient comes with, there is nothing in the Norwegian health care system to do. Some women I've met have also met doctors who reserve the right to refer to abortion. These women later told me that they actually felt it was okay. They met a human being who resonated that this was a difficult question. They did not experience condemnation. They experienced a conversation around a difficult topic, and they actually felt that even though they had a different vision than the doctor and wanted abortion, they felt that they were being cared for. So the question for us in the Christian People's Party is whether we can value and care – not as SV says: the woman's right to health care «1» and freedom of conscience «0» – but both. In the Christian People's Party, we say at the same time that if that's how a professional and practical can't take care of both, we actually choose to stand in front of the woman.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e336	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e339	In politics, it is the results that count. That's the consequences for people we have to imagine in order to make wise decisions. Being unwanted is a very private matter, and you may need to discuss it with someone you've known all your life. Too many people can decide to be such a person. Now let's keep away from the burden of replacing a regular, keep away from the burden of keeping close to it for his family. The day has come. You sit at a foreign doctor's office and wait for your appointment. There is also a friend of the family who asks if the family and the girl have changed their regulars. What does the representative of Bollestad suggest that the girl answer?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e348	If I understood the question correctly, ask the representative about what the family thinks about the girl's changing her regularity. Is that what the representative is asking? I have to get an explanation of the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e354	The representative Christensen will have a few seconds to try to explain to the representative Bollestad what was the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e357	I ask permission to repeat the question. The day has come. A girl sits in a doctor's office with a foreign doctor. At the waiting room she meets another person who is a friend of her family, and who knows that she has another permanent partner from before. This person asks the girl if she and her family have also changed their regularity. What does the representative of Bollestad suggest that this girl answer?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e366	Then I think that choosing a regular is something neither friends of the family nor others have anything to do with. In fact, a young girl with boldness can say that she has changed her regularity.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e371	I guess it's really in place to congratulate the Christian People's Party, which can be about to get an impact on a view that they're really all alone about having in the Stortinget. It's an honest thing. It is the Right who has deceived his leaders, not the Christian People's Party. The Christian People's Party is against the abortion law, and it is natural for the Christian People's Party to accept any proposal that might weaken the right to abortion that Norwegian women have today. But my question to the representative of Bollestad is what will happen after such a reservation access has been adopted, because today reservations are being practised on different grounds. It is difficult to understand the principle that the Ministry of Health should say that the resistance to abortion is a high-value basis for reservation, while for example. the resistance to prevention is not. Can Christian People's Party promise that they will not work for it to become reservation access for, for example. future Conventional Outsourcing?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e380	The Christian People's Party has never talked about that there should be reservation access for the printing of prevention. That's not what we're talking about here. But what the representative definitely refers to is that there have been some doctors who have wanted a reservation for the copper spiral, because then there is a fertilized egg that is not attached to the uterus wall. The Christian People's Party understands these games, but this is not part of the agreement with the Right and the Advance Party. We know that there will be many challenges in the Norwegian health system in the future. That's why this reservation is said to be a matter of life and death – that's also what the Medical Association comes with – because we want to say that things can actually be. But it's not about the printing of contraception.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e385	The representative of Bollestad has replied that she believes it is okay that every girl should take the discussion about her patient rights at the doctor's office. I take note of that. But I have respect for the Christian People's Party's commitment to justice and conscience. On the radio today, representatives of Bollestad could be heard speaking well about those principles. But on the basis of how this arrangement is put up, I have to ask the representative: does she think it is right that it is only the conscience that should hang as high and that should be so important to protect for the Christian People's Party; that it is only the conscience of doctors in larger cities and a municipal government that believes the same as them, which it is important to defend?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e392	The Christian People’s Party has said that there must be a system where this is professional and practical. That is why we say in the consultation note that it should not be up to each local government. But we have municipal doctors who are responsible for providing a professional basis and to see that all services to patients and residents are provided. If they see that it is professionally good and practicable to have a reservation in their municipality, they can say yes. If that's not practicable, because there are a lot of other people who have reservations, the answer is no. Actually, we're trying to take care of both of them. Where it doesn't work, women's right comes first.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e397	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e400	The central government of the Central Party has refused a right to be determined to reserve the right to refer to abortion and assisted conception, or to prescribe or insert contraception. The centre party argues that follow-up of patient rights is the most important concern when assessing the eligibility for a health professional’s reservation, including women’s right to self-determined abortion. The centre party will not be able to change the law in a way that weakens women's rights in meeting the health center. In the Center Party, we have a program party that we will continue today's abortion law. We cannot support practical changes that may result in geographical differences when it relates to the possibilities for women to get their rights met. Therefore, the legal right of women to meet in hospital without reference to abortion from permanent staff must also be exercised in all relevant hospitals in Norway. The party's big crowd is set free in this matter, for which we have tradition in such matters. But neither of us is for a legal right too firm to reserve itself against referral to abortion. None of us is for it to be possible at all to make a reservation against referral to assisted conception or insertion of spirals. None of us are for municipalities to have a veto right in the principal here, as the government has suggested in the hearing note. There are different perceptions in the larger group about whether there may still be a possibility of reservation for certain persons in relation to referral to abortion, as practised in Norway until a circular from the Ministry of Health and Welfare came in 2011. Several representatives of the Central Party will be supporting SV's proposals today. I have a different approximation. I don't support a statutory reservation right for certain, but I would like to assess the matter that has been notified by the government about a reservation option for certain when referring to abortion. I am basically in favour of passing on the practices that have been carried out in Norway throughout all the years, which other Nordic countries also practice, where, for strong over-intelligence reasons, do not want to refer to abortion, should have a possibility of letting it go if strictly defined criteria have been met, and it can be seen that women’s legal rights are taken care of. The fact that I am for a reservation for referral to abortion, and not for a right, means that in small municipalities with a few lay and/or a long distance from other lay, reservation possibilities cannot be found. But in larger municipalities, e.g. The doctor works at a medical office with several other bodies and has collegiate agreements with them, nor should we refuse municipalities to accept an application for a reservation. The UN Declaration on Human Rights, Article 18, states that everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion. The Council of Europe Resolution 1763 of 2010 updates this by stating that no person, hospital or institution should be pressured, held accountable or discriminated against on the basis of the fact that a refusal to perform, facilitate, assist in or refer to abortion. Thus, the Council of Europe does not distinguish between performing and referring to different types of treatment and procedures for reasons of conscience. Neither does the Lege Association in its statement last year. The Council of Europe encourages its Member States to develop clear and comprehensive guidelines defining and regulating the freedom of health professionals to reserve themselves against certain tasks on grounds of conscience. Norway has not had such clear guidelines. I think it's necessary to get it, and that we don't shade away from the debate. The debate is demanding, and I have great respect for him. Where's the divorce for conscience? Who's gonna define it? And when will one take care of it? There have been harsh words in the debate on this matter, and many have been made as a counter-prosecution of abortion laws. I'll take a distance from that. For me, the reservation of health professionals on grounds of conscience is an important value in a liberal society. For me, this is about tolerance and respect for a minority. I'm behind today's abortion permit. I'm not a reservation doctor, but I respect those who are, and I can understand that other bodies find it problematic and contrary to their over-intention to refer to abortion. I want to have a health care system where I want to be able to feel a sense of conscience about life and death, within the framework of the legal patient rights. The proposal from SV, the Labour Party and the Left is a proposal that everyone could actually vote for today, as it is unpresist. The word is "reservation law" – which no one has proposed – but it indicates between the lines of the circular letter dealing with the possibility of reservation. If the proposal had been adopted, the cases would not have been closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e419	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e422	It is very unusual for me to disagree with Kjersti Toppe on a matter in the Health Committee, because she is a representative I have the greatest respect and great sense of, so I thought I had to take advantage of the occasion. It's true, as was said in the post, that the Center Party has chosen to free its group since the Center Party is one of those parties in the Stortinget where there are different views on the matter, while there is one common view in some other groups. Therefore, since it's pretty close to the core of what's finally going to decide this question in Stortinget, I could imagine hearing the Center Party's reason why it's right to release its group in a case like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e430	It actually says itself. When there are matters relating to religious freedom, ethical matters and consciences, we have a good tradition in the Center Party to free our representatives. It has not been discussed whether we should bind our representatives in this matter. I have no other answer than that. I think it's very good that the Center Party has these kinds of stops in these things, and maybe the other party should have had them too. I also think SV would have done the same thing. There may be a full deal, but I also believe that SV had released its representatives, as I know SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e437	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e440	For the Left, it is important to clarify that the debate on reservation access refers to a special agreement between the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party and is not part of the cooperation agreement between the four parties. For the Left, the patient's consideration is most important. For us, it is important that patients who want advice and guidance on the way to legal intervention meet with respect and competence, not with bureaucracy and more thresholds. It is the young women who are going to meet with opportunities and not impossibility. Some of these women meet the public health system for the first time alone. Some may be mentally ill, some may not even have learned the language enough yet, and some may have been attacked. It is these women who are the weak party in this matter, and who need our attention. In view of this, the debate on freedom of conscience for a few in one occupational group will be both exclusive and narrow. Here we are at risk of entanglement in a spiral of possible reservations both for doctors, for other occupational groups and in relation to different patient groups. We're doing the best for the patient, and actually the easiest for ourselves as politicians, by having a first line in the health care system completely unreserved. We have other health care groups that could rightly require reservation rights. Today, nurses and midwives can prescribe pills. What do we say if they want a reservation access? And what if a midwife refuses to print Subutex to a pregnant woman? I miss the debate on responsibilities and duties in the first line of medicine as much as that on freedom of conscience. Training a doctor costs society today $2.30 million. kr. Lawyers serve very well, and it is actually completely voluntary to start as a self-employed person as a regular. That's the first line we're discussing today. That is why the Left and the Labour Party and SV are in this case: we need a first line in healthcare that is completely without reservation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e453	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e456	I would first like to take the opportunity to thank the Left for the position the Left has taken on this matter. And thank you for a very good post. There were many good things that part of us are definitely going to pick from, when we're going to keep our posts a little later in the debate. What I'm asking is what ratings the Left does – for the Left has been consistent and had the same position both before and after the election – of the reverse operation that the Right and Advance Party have done in this important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e463	Thank you for the question. We haven't made such thorough assessments around that. These are assessments that the Right Party and the Advance Party have had to make in their negotiations with the Christian People's Party. We have accepted that a special agreement has been negotiated here and we assume that it is not so important that it is at the expense of the cooperation agreement of the four parties. It is an agreement that will govern the country, and if at some point this special agreement becomes more important than ruling the country, there will be a debate for the Left, but today we are living fine with the fact that three parties have concluded this agreement. But we regret it, because that is not a position we agree with the three parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e470	Does the Left, as a liberal party, believe that wages and agreements with a municipality are essential if we are to have a reservation opportunity and a conscience, or is conscience a self-esteem in a liberal democracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e475	As a liberal party, freedom of conscience is important. It's an important value. The question here is where in a public service offer the value goes. For us, the women's rights in this case are far more important than having some doctors reserve themselves against doing a job that society has committed them to. We recognise the freedom of conscience of each profession. When it's not about contributing to an intervention in this case, but about guiding and contributing to its competence, we don't recognise that freedom of conscience.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e482	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e485	We have to show tolerance for differences of opinion, but when the personal values of doctors conflict with the patient's needs, the last thing we have to do is to weigh them down. It is the duty and responsibility of a medical practitioner, if the woman wishes to do so, to pass the referral on to health care. In an open and liberal society, it is important that individuals have personal opinions and act in harmony with them, even when they are contrary to the views of the majority. It's important to have tolerance for a variety of values. Therefore, it is established that there is a right of reservation for health professionals. It insists that they may, for reasons of conscience, refrain from carrying out or assisting in abortion. That is stated in the Abortion Act. There's a big difference in principle between doing an intervention and referring patients to a law-enforced offer. This fundamental difference relates partly to the degree of participation, but primarily to how the patient is affected by the two different terms. A patient will never be confronted with the fact that there are doctors or nurses in a hospital that have reserved, for these jobs with other patients. Here, it is also important that we manage to set some limits and are clear on the principles of our healthcare system. We're getting an increasingly pluralistic group of permanentists, ethnic, religious and cultural. It's not a problem in itself. However, when patients go to the clinics as a gatekeeper in the health care system, the service they receive should not depend on the private morals of the clinicians. Opening up for this is a principle that can also carry unlucky away. Although the cases are few, measured as a percentage of fixed-line visits, there is a need for a fundamental clarification. There's enough work for doctors in Norway. If there is such a strong counter-representation against referring to legitimate health services, a search for work should be carried out in all those places where one is not exposed to it. I have great respect for the fact that tyrants can experience it as a burden to have to refer to the practices they have deep counter-conceptions against. But the sympathy that I feel for them does not change the decisive argument in this case: Determiners are navitated in the patient's contact with the health care system and cannot allow their morals to prevent patients from getting the health care they require. So far, I haven't written a single word of this post myself. Bent Höie has done that for me. Every word belongs to the Minister of Health – correctly written before he did, in our country in February 2012. There is such a powerful and fundamental rejection of opening the reservation for tyrants that I thought it deserved to be repeated in this debate. I couldn't formulate it better myself. When a reader reads what Bent Höie and Right previously thought about reservation, it becomes clear that that proposal the government has sent out at the hearing, hits 100 pst. by Höie's own syllable and well-worded criticism. None of the problems described here disappears if you rename the ‘right of reservation’ to ‘an opportunity’. Several real estate agencies are likely to practice reservation than before, when the possibility is legitimized by the government. It's an illusion to think that reservation will not be practiced in the districts, where alternatives for many are very far away. Information contained in letters and web pages will not prevent women from meeting the moral condemnation of being rejected in a medical office. Patient rights are not a menu where a doctor can choose what he or she wants to offer. There are rights that should be the same for all residents of Norway. It is this fundamental principle that the government is now weakening. The right has created a storm for itself, and it is well deserved. Reservation means a hollowing out of the right to abortion by making the path of legal intervention more difficult and complicated. Saying that this case has nothing to do with the right to abortion is just words. That right is at the heart of this debate. That's why it arouses so strong emotions and so enormous commitment. I know that my persuasion towards civil co-representatives is limited. Now that I have allowed Bent Höie anno 2012 to take part in this debate, it is my hope that there are right-wing representatives in this room who will choose to follow the line Right argued so well for that time, and vote in favour of our proposal to stop this referral, which has so little support out in the population. Our no to reservation and referral is a yes to a health care system with equal rights for everyone, where the patient always comes first.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e515	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e519	The representative Lightbakken said earlier in today's debate, in the line exchange with Kari Kjenaas Kjos: Is it such that the resistance to abortion should be a high-value basis for reservation? He said something in that direction. Is it so that SV can change its perception in such a profound ethical question? In 2009, under the red-green government, the department sent out a letter saying that the practice was acceptable. It was thought that there was no legal obstacle to fixed referrals to patients, as long as patients have access to the service in question without inconvenience. That's exactly what this government is going to add up to, by giving an opportunity, with one big difference – with full transparency to patients about which doctors are making a reservation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e526	That openness is a paper openness that is not going to help one of the women who are being met with rejection in the medical office. It is likely that there will be more reservation and no less when the bulk of the population legitimizes it. It's not an argument to allow a crime that another one hasn't managed to get it out. The government in which we sat made an effort to do so through a circular in 2011, where one clarified how the law should be understood, and what was expected of the municipalities. I notice that the sitting majority is now trying to use it that it has not removed the reservation, as a basis for legitimizing the reservation, instead of doing what should be the majority and the Minister of Health's job, namely to ensure that Norwegian law is enforced throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e533	It's worth remembering that the foremost characteristic of a democracy is the way it treats its minority. In this case, we can state that a few Norwegian doctors are in this minority and also have the right to use human rights to express what they think, despite the fact that a majority may think otherwise. In this case, the left-hand side has shown that their tolerance for these doctors does not exist, but limits itself to people who believe and believe the same thing as they do. In a year when we are celebrating the 200th anniversary of the Constitution, I think this is a little sad to register. It is therefore appropriate to ask the representative Lighthouse how he believes doctors who want to use the reservation facility should have the right to make their views known, if they are not granted this opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e540	I think there is something ominous about politicians who are trying to take monopoly on representing ethics and morality. We all have an ethical and moral basis for our vision. We all have deep respect for freedom of conscience, but we disagree on who is the weakest party in this case. The majority clearly believe that it is the doctor in their meeting with the state. We believe that it is the woman in her meeting with the doctor. That's why this isn't about the majority tyranny or giving the bluff in the minority, it's about who we think needs first and foremost the help and protection of the big society. That's what we're looking at differently. I have great respect for the doctors who, for reasons of conscience, will not refer to abortion, but it is not that anyone is forced to be regular in Norway. It's a voluntary choice, and when one takes the voluntary choice, it's also natural to expect one to be willing to do all the tasks that are in that role. It's that simple, and there's no reason to invoke the Constitution if you're against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e547	The representative Lysbakken spoke about the principal limit, what would be the limit of conscience, whether it was in hospitals or outside hospitals. How will SV maintain conscience as a separate element of Norwegian society? We sing fine «Your mind is free», but does it only apply when we mean the same as SV, or are there opportunities to practice freedom of conscience even if we disagree with SV's position?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e552	Fortunately, in Norway there is full opportunity to practise freedom of conscience. The question here is just what is going to be the arena of the political struggle around where these boundaries – for example. on the issue of abortion – to go. Is that supposed to be the public conversation? There is no one here who has proposed to refuse the determination to write papers against abortion, silent at the elections of the Christian People's Party, arguing against the abortion law. But the medical office shouldn't be the arena of such a political struggle. Have a decision to take the assignment as a regular, one also owes to those who come there to offer them all that the law says patients have a right to. That's what this is about. No one refuses any freedom to believe what they want about abortion in Norway. I have the greatest respect for the doctors who are strongly opposed to abortion, but no one is forcing them to take that kind of work in the healthcare system where someone gets some contact with abortion questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e557	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e560	When I heard the start of the Audun Light Board post, I thought this was a promise, this is the most balanced post I have ever heard from SV in this case. But then I began to recognize my own words. I would like to thank the representative for reading those words, because it shows very clearly that for the Right this has always been about the balance between two important considerations. On the one hand, the most important thing, the woman's right and the ability to have self-determined abortion, but on the other hand, the ability of doctors to maintain their conscience as long as it does not affect the woman. It came out well in my post that time, but at the time the debate about a reservation right that gave the individual doctor – without any conditions, without any information – an individual right to reserve himself, whether it went out on the woman or not. This is not what the debate is about, precisely because the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party have negotiated a reservation option, which – as the representative Bollestad also said in his reply – puts the woman's right first, and then opens up an opportunity for the individual to decide. For this reason, the government has sent to the hearing a proposal that allows it to reserve itself against referring to abortion for reasons of conscience. The proposal is being consulted until 30 April this year. I am very pleased that the majority of the committee does not support the proposal that has been promoted. I think it's positive to give room for ethical reflection among doctors. We're going to respect the doctors who think it's ethically difficult to refer to abortion. Some doctors have in practice reserved themselves against referring to abortion. To date, this has been done without legislation requiring the patient to be informed or how doctors are to ensure that women are granted their rights. That's exactly what we're cleaning up right now. Our proposal for new legislation is a clear strengthening of women’s rights compared to the practices that have existed in Norway until now. By introducing a clear-cut reservation mechanism, we ensure patients' rights and information needs better than has been the case. Women's right to abortion is in no way threatened by this proposal. We're going to go in order to give the deputies the opportunity to make a reservation, but only in cases where the patient's rights are guaranteed. Municipalities are responsible for organising the permanent medical scheme. Therefore, it is quite natural that municipalities should be those which initially assess, according to local circumstances, whether there is sufficient access to decision-makers for one or more of them to have the opportunity to make reservations. The woman shall not be subjected to undue strain as a result of her permanent resident. If a woman on a doctor’s list assesses or wishes to refer to abortion, the prescriber shall provide her with an hour in the vicinity of another doctor — no later than the next working day. On the basis of the government’s proposal, information on the reservations made shall be readily available to patients. Such information shall be on the website where a proxy is selected. People who are on the list of a permanent staff member who already make a reservation will receive a letter about this, and they will also be entitled to change their permanent staff in a very short time, to a permanent staff member in the vicinity who has not booked. The decision-maker shall be able to reserve the right to refer to abortion, not to refer to assisted fertilisation, to prescribe contraception or to insert a spiral. If active death care is ever permitted in Norway, the statutory health centre will also be open to provide regulations that allow for reservation. The Government has stressed that women’s rights should be respected. I believe that we have achieved this in a good way. The importance of women shall be crucial for the formulation of the proposal. No women shall experience that it is difficult to have abortion even if her doctor does not want to refer. Once the consultation period is over, the hearing opinions will be carefully considered. The government will then decide on the design of the scheme, and the matter will be presented to Stortinget as a legal act – as planned during this autumn. But in the legislative proposal, we will also present proposals for regulations on the details of the scheme. That's why we're putting up for a much more open and democratic discussion about this legislative change than what's common in legislative processes, precisely because the regulation, all the details, is also being promoted for the Storting at the same time as the bill, so that one has the opportunity to know how this should be done concretely in the individual cases. It gives the Storting ample opportunity in the next discussion to come back to which scheme you want. But I record that there is a clear majority on Stortinget that wants a reservation facility to be established.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e581	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e584	All of us who have a regular, that doctor will be there for us, especially when we need it the most. Not least then, the doctor we've become familiar with, important, whether we live in large or small communities. In the evening post of 13 February this year, the Minister of Health said: ‘A young woman in Finnmark should be able to call a hospital and take flights the next morning without thinking about economics.’ Considering that a young woman in Finnmark, like anywhere else, most of all needs fellow humanity, confidentiality and warmth when she's unwanted, the health minister understands that an offer of air tickets in that context can be perceived as being disrespectful by an abortion seeker, when what she needs first of all, is a regular she knows, who doesn't reject her?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e594	Therefore, the proposal also proposes to ensure that this young woman in Finnmark should have the possibility of access to a permanent medical practitioner, if that is what the woman wants, and have that conversation with the permanent practitioner, without any delay. But that's how a majority of the women in Oslo choose to go to the hospital directly themselves. It is important for me, as Minister of Health, to say that women in Finnmark should have exactly the same freedom of choice as women in Oslo as regards the possibility of going directly to hospitals. Therefore, in contrast to what the previous government did, I have sent a letter to the country's hospital clarifying the individual woman's right, no matter where one lives in the country, to be able to visit the hospital directly, and not least that they also have the opportunity to cover their expenses, even if they have to fly. It should not be the case that a woman in Oslo has rights other than that of a woman in Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e600	After all, I have conducted a thorough study of fine quotations and articles from Bent Höie. And it's not like that in what Bent Höie wrote in 2012, there were moderate and careful turns on this question. On the contrary, it was a clear belief that if a permanent resident wants to make a reservation, he must either stop it or find another job. The interesting thing about the article of February 2012 and all that Bent Höie said about it is that the word ‘reservation option’ was never mentioned. Is the Minister of Health really going to make us think that he's meant the same thing all along, when he never talked about booking until after several weeks in negotiations with the Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e607	There is a very clear and significant reason why the word ‘reservation’ was not mentioned in that debate, and that was not the debate at the time. It was about a custom reservation right, where the individual doctor, without any regulation, could reserve himself against anything – everything from spiraling and printing of pills to referring to abortion and assisted conception, where one could also discriminate between lesbian couples and heterophilic couples. That's what this government is cleaning up. The reservation opportunity came into being as the concept of a compromise after the Medical Association's national government decision. That compromise is based primarily on the needs of women, and then one assesses local conditions. That compromise also made it possible for the Right to reach a compromise with the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, which had initially wanted a different regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e612	It is striking that Bent Höie, who now claims to have had the same conviction all along, never launched this as a solution when the debate was held two years ago. It is also the case that the Medical Association's decision came in good time before the elections. So if that was what was triggering, and not the negotiations with the Christian People's Party, why didn't the Right not inform its voters in the election campaign that they would be in favour of the solution proposed by the Lege Association?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e619	The right-hand starting point was that you were against a right of reservation. When we negotiated with the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party on this issue, we did it the same way when we negotiated with the same parties plus the Left. In the things we disagreed, it wasn't like the red-green government, that you get it, and then we get it. It wasn't the tone -- it was actually trying to figure out how these games could try to find a solution in sum, which everyone could stand for, and which we think is better. The Right Party and the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party were able to do so through that conversation, based on the compromise that was then made in the Lege Association. What came out of it, I believe, is a better solution than what had been the alternatives, either to introduce a general right of reservation or to continue the scheme for which the red-green government stood. Now it turns out that not all the red-green government either stood for the scheme they stood for and that did not actually work in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e626	In fact, I believe that there is a difference between negotiating for several kilometres by motorway, more money for municipalities, railway bets and discussing completely fundamental value issues with parties, for which I respect. The Christian People's Party has always had this position, but they are in an absolute minority in the country's parliament. No matter how the Minister of Health tries to talk away from what this is all about, there is no doubt that it was only after the voters had said that this possibility, which is now pushed ahead by the Minister of Health, was updated. The Health Minister talks about this being a larger consensus, a greater understanding, and that it became better than if you were normally negotiating. That's not what happened, because the left would not be involved in this. What reflections does the Minister for Health, who in other contexts celebrates cooperation on the civil side, that one of the most important supporting parties in all other cases would not stand behind this matter, something of which health ministers make a point?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e635	The representation of the representative Micaelsen is incorrect. Both the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party believed this also before the elections. The opposition is trying to make it look like this is a special point for the Christian People's Party, because it fits in with their strategy of presenting this as a rematch on abortion law. This is a position which also split the Progress Party, and now it turns out that once the Centre Party has come out of the red-green government's coercion tree, the Centre Party also has the opportunity to believe this – at least large parts of the Centre Party. So I have to ask the question, why didn't half of the Central Party group mean this when they were in the Red-Green government? Perhaps this was discussed and negotiated, but the centre party was not allowed to believe this when they were in government with the red-green ones. In addition, it is worth recalling that the Health Minister of the Workers' Party sent a letter to the Medical Association in 2009, where one said that the old practice where the individual doctor himself found out about this was a completely acceptable solution. So what you use strong words against today was the Labour Party's own policy as late as 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e642	We're back to where we started this debate. I can admit that there were things in many areas of Norwegian society, too, when the Workers' Party ruled the country – we have done that for some years since the war – that have not been ideal, have not been good enough, but then the question is, What are we going to do? Thus, the Vice-President of the Court of Justice and the Minister for Health in Norway believe that instead of doing something about the problem, we should look back and find the argument that the practice that has been illegal and that has not been good, we should allow it within given rules. I find this news from the Right-wing representatives in this matter alarming, and I am not alone on it. The Vice-Chairman of the Right makes a great point of the fact that there is a large majority for this matter in the Stortinget. Yes, perhaps this majority should listen more to what people in Norway think about the matter, because they are very concerned about the matter. A large, overwhelming majority clearly say no to what the government is now trying to get through. What is the health minister's comment that the whole country is almost against this?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e649	One of the Workers' Party's representatives earlier said in a reply that what was important was how this worked in practice. I fully agree with that. The approach of the Labour Party has been tried since 2011 without success. It doesn't work in practice. Women still meet doctors who make reservations, at medical offices today. Then I think it's a good idea to think about how to do this in a different way, which actually works in practice for the women involved. That's what I'm most concerned about. That's why we're now regulating this in such a way that we primarily care for women to make this work in practice, and do not go into a model that the Workers' Party has stood for since 2011, where one can say very clearly: No, we are against this, but still a very good one knows that this is happening in the municipalities. It doesn't work in practice. I believe in this model, and I also hope that it will be able to work in practice for the women involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e654	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e659	The representative proposal we are discussing today is based on the government's announced proposal to grant permanent investors the right to make reservations for referral to abortion. The proposal, which has caused great concern, allows doctors to refuse statutory health care on the basis of their own conscience. It is a proposal that will most likely help to create greater differences in this country, for example: between cities and district municipalities. The Minister of Health often argues that some form of reservation has been in place for a few years, although few complaints from women have been made about this practice, claims the government. It's a syllable argument. To promote a complaint is hardly the first one an abortion-seeking woman thinks of having experienced a humiliating rejection of help from her regularity, if at all she knows that she has the right to complain. Another unsustainable argument from the government is that a woman who knows that the district attorney will reserve herself against referring to abortion can only go to another doctor. It's not gonna last either. We live in a long country with many small municipalities, which very often have only one or few doctors. The Minister of Health claims that the proposed right of reservation is for the benefit of women, so that the applicant for an abortion will not meet impersonal and condescending decision-makers with reprehensible body language. It's a very clever reasoning, which almost legitimizes that you have to be able to act like that. For my part, I expect and trust that Norwegian doctors will meet their patients with respect, dignity and non-discrimination – regardless of what they have to do with pain and suffering – in line with the professional ethics of doctors. You have to respect that people want to act in certain ways for reasons of conscience. Therefore, health professionals have always had the right to reserve themselves against attending or assisting directly in the event of termination of pregnancy in hospitals. This court stands firm. This is unproblematic because such a right of reservation will never come into contact with the women concerned. The decision-makers, on the other hand, are among the main actors in the first line of healthcare. The vast majority of those in need of health care come to the hospital first. The foundation of the system is that we as patients – just when life is difficult, when we need a doctor we know and trust – can come to this doctor and not be rejected and sent to a doctor we do not know. Therefore, it becomes unacceptable when the government, knowingly and willfully, adds to such a dramatic discrimination against patients. There is no human right to be fixed. A doctor who feels that aspects of the decision-making process are ethically difficult should preferably seek other tasks. There is a great need for doctors in many parts of the healthcare system, for example: in the care of the elderly. The right to health care, on the other hand — based on statutory services — shall apply to all of us. That's the right that's now being played out by the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e680	After the government announced that it would send at the hearing a proposal to give reservation options to permanent doctors, we have had a media debate that lacks parallelity, with a scare announcement that the abortion law stands for a fall. It has to be raised beyond any doubt that the government's proposal on the right to make reservations on the issue of life and death does not at all undermine the right to maritime abortion or imply any change in the abortion law. On the contrary, it makes it visible and tightens up a practice that has existed contrary to the legislation for many years. It is valuable for society that the decision-maker has a high level of ethical awareness and reflects on ethical issues. The community is well served that there is room for different beliefs and that determinators should not feel compelled to act contrary to their conscience, as long as it does not violate the woman's right to be cared for in a good and safe manner. The debate that has taken place shows that today's general obligation of referral conceals the fact that doctors reserve the right to refer to abortion. This is illegal, and it should have been cleaned up a long time ago. The question is whether it is possible to reconcile two considerations — whether it is possible to combine women’s statutory right to maritime abortion with doctors’ freedom of conscience in matters of life. I believe that, with the government's announced proposals, we create greater transparency about which doctors want to reserve themselves for conscience reasons. With that, we give women who want it, the opportunity to choose another fixed person. While the government is concerned that decision-makers should not have to act contrary to their consciences, we are at least equally concerned that the woman should experience support and security on the day she ends up in such a vulnerable situation as it is necessary to consider taking an abortion. Then the conversation between the doctor and the patient is of great importance. The woman shall leave the medical office in good faith that she has received good guidance and support for the choice she is making. At the same time, a variety of offers for women who end up in a situation where they are uncertain about whether or not to commit an abortion is important. In addition to the prescriber, mention can be made of the health care and gynecological outpatient clinic at the hospital, if one wishes to contact the hospital directly. That the woman can do today, and so will she in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e701	It is a special and difficult matter we are debating today. It deals with, among other things: on emotions, rights, ethical issues and the unborn. There have been tough fronts and strong use of words in the media, where the left side has appeared to be monopolised to the truth. Of course, it does not, and Freddy de Ruiter's suggestion that the Progress Party has turned this case around is not correct. We landed at this position a year ago. There is reason to stress that the reservation option does not tighten the abortion law. In fact, it is established that women's rights weigh more heavily than doctors' desire to reserve. The abortion law is firm, and that's good. Because if there were to be situations where women's right to prompt referral to abortion conflicts with doctors' desire to make a reservation, the woman's rights are paramount. Hospital doctors have the right to reserve the right to perform or assist in the event of an abortion. Local health doctors are only given the opportunity to reserve the right to refer to abortion if the woman’s right to prompt referral to a hospital is not affected when she wants to have an abortion. Information through school will be important when young girls, who are still in the education cycle, become unwanted pregnant. They have access to health nurses and health centres to advise on how to cope with such a situation, if the girl’s permanent staff have exercised the right of reservation. The health centres will guide the girl to direct contact with the hospital to get the intervention she sees she needs to do. Then she also let go of the way about the settler. It is also true today that the vast majority of girls, through available information, will themselves inform themselves about how they should proceed, when they know that the decision-maker has made use of the reservation option – which they will be informed about when and whether it happens. I myself have a 17-year-old daughter and have assured me that she knows about both the health centre and the health sister. I'd like to wait a little while to be a grandfather. I stress that the ability of the decision-makers to preserve their freedom of conscience and religion shall be limited by the patient's right. Therefore, only local authorities have other available capacity, which will have the opportunity to make reservations. In the more than 40 years we have had the abortion law in Norway, health professionals have reserved themselves against participating in abortion interventions, without weakening the woman’s right to abortion. It is precisely the principle on which the proposal on the reservation option for fixed doctors is based.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e718	The representative, Wold, said this was a difficult matter. No, it's not, but it's a very important matter in principle. The principle of importance in this can be read in a Twitter message dated 24 February 2012, written by Bent Höie, current Minister of Health. It says it, and I quote: «If your job is not compatible with your conscience, change your job. The fight against abortion may be taken in the open room, not in the medical office.» This is a fundamental point of view on how the care services are to be provided in Norway. The care services are the patient’s door to the healthcare system, and the task of the caregiver is not to assist with the intervention. It is also not a matter of deciding on the intervention. It's only about informing about a woman's right. Today – e.g. on the government’s website – the Minister of Health speaks with a completely different voice and has changed the principle. It says: ‘I see it as positive to give room for ethical reflection to the doctors and not expect them to carry out automatically the State determines.’ It's a fundamentally completely different approach to the important and central issue in this case. Should the decision-maker be able to use his private morals to say yes or no to a task that he is assigned to carry out, and which does not in any way affect the waiver of conscience relating to other personnel, which they have in connection with carrying out an abortion? Like the others, I agree that there may be a difficult ethical question for some in different aspects of different jobs, but that has to be settled when you take the job. In this case, there is no doubt that the woman, the patient, is the weakest party. When one in addition manages to make the changes that are being made now, for the sake of the woman, I have to say that I think it is low. I want to tell those who say that now the woman is going to be allowed to find a doctor who might want to help her, that if she lives in a municipality where the municipality has said no, it won't work, or if it's not enough doctors, the woman still has to go to these doctors. So people have stood here in the Storting and said it's perfectly okay that they don't want to do their job, and that they're going to continue to be able to exercise their private morals on these women in the medical office. I say, do the job, it's not okay that doctors don't do their whole job, or leave their private morals... [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e739	The working party suggests that everyone should be able to contact the permanent medical office when they need health care. The decision is the port of the public health service, which shall be available and provide an equivalent offer to all, including those rarely used by the local authority, and those who do not have the prerequisites or resources to find other alternatives. Although some women seeking abortion are directly addressed to the hospital, or find help by other means, we cannot create our own system for this particular patient group, which, like other groups, are composed and comprised of people with different needs. All women should be sure that they get the help they are entitled to, at their permanent employment office. An image is now being created in which a group of patients with a high-resource nature is being produced as victims of a professional ban and a violation of human rights. What is true, on the other hand, is that we have seen a turn of debate and attitudes that help to exacerbate the situation of women seeking abortion. In the debate, several people assume that doctors who want to make a reservation are, by definition, particularly conscientious and moral and have made their decision on the basis of high ethical considerations, as opposed to the doctors who refer. And this comes in addition to allegations of violation of conscience and human rights, and professional bans if permanent residents are not to be able to reserve themselves. There has been a shift of the centre of gravity in the debate. Abortion opponents and reserve doctors promote their demands with a clearer voice both inside and outside the medical offices. The working party is on the patient's side, and if some doctors should learn that it has become more difficult to work as an employee after the circular that came for approx. two years ago, this was not the result of prosecution by the authorities. The responsibility falls on this government and on this minister of health and others who, on a very sound basis, push confrontation by producing the reservation doctors as victims, and at the same time cast doubt on the breadth of the door and the height of the door into our common health system.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e748	There is no doubt that this has been a difficult matter for many. I think that more people are surprised at the scope and commitment of the debate also outside this room. Even I was surprised that reservation for permanent workers was part of the agreement that was concluded between three of the four parties that form the basis for this government. I am convinced that the same overwhelming majority who voted in favour of amendments to the law on abortion at the national meeting of the Right last year would vote in favour of a proposal on the right of reservation. But this is about granting doctors an opportunity to reserve if given assumptions are met. Even I see the difference. I'm proud to be part of a party in which we have a lively debate on matters that affect our fundamental values, our view of individuality, and not least of being human. It makes us more robust when, in the future, we will be challenged by the fact that more and more ethical dilemmas arise that technology and development will give us. I too understand that politics is a compromise. I expect that the cooperation partners of the Right have seen that once we have concluded an agreement, we stand by it, even when it costs, when it costs dearly. At the same time, I am not impressed by how high and dark some people appear in this debate, when the previous government itself raised doubts about the matter in 2009, but reasonably tried to map and clear up a mixed practice in 2011. But the representative, Mrs. Lene Vågslid, is at least honest enough to admit to TV 2 in January this year that previous attempts to clean up have failed. No sanctions were imposed by the previous government after 2011. As new at Stortinget, it has been special to observe how a former government party extends its hand towards one of our collaborators to then tie its fist and hammer it loose against their human vision and values. This proposal comes from representatives of a party who, under the previous government, agreed to send Norwegian fighter aircraft to Libya, continue the cash support for eight years, tighten asylum policy and open new areas for oil operations. So when I first learn how to swallow camels against my hair and across, it's okay to have someone to learn from. This debate has made the doctors who reserve themselves without authority in today's legislation visible, but we have also received examples of women who want to keep their child on, where the doctor is too easily gripped by the referral block. It shows that a living debate is important, because we don't want it like that, either. In conclusion, I would like to thank all those who have contributed important and respectful reflections from both sides – mainly unfortunately outside this room: doctors, midwives, nurses and engaged citizens in chronicles, in debates and in e-mails. Their commitment will lead to the proposal that comes from the government becoming the best it can be and clearing up in a practice the previous government let lie. I will vote in favour of that proposal when it comes up to the harvest, and against the proposal that is on the table today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e765	I think it's part of the Right-wing voters who can express disappointment at the direction the party has chosen to take, but there is still respect for, among other things. The previous speaker - to be able to stand here and make an article about something completely different from the game you actually went to. I would like to quote a paragraph from an article that is held by a party trap of mine in a debate about women and patients' rights: ‘It is not helpful for the interpellant to say that his questions do not concern measures to make the situation more difficult for a previously disadvantaged group. However, that is what will result if we follow Mr. Tonguesvik's proposal to amend the regulations. We do not want regulations like Mr Tongesvik wants, which could lead to unfortunate women being sent out in a difficult situation on a pointless, degrading journey from doctor to doctor. These women need help. The right of reserving may not be exercised in addition to refusing or assisting in the course of the intervention itself for reasons of conscience.’;» It is a small extract from an post by Kjell Bohlin, who sat at the Stortinget for Telemark Arbeidarparti, October 18, 1979. On 18 October 1979, Kjell Bohlin stood on this chair and debated exactly what we are doing today. We can talk about the fact that there is no right of reservation or the possibility of referral. That's not what this is all about. This is about patients. I want us to have the patient's health care, as the Minister of Health also says he will. We cannot do that with this proposal. This proposal, which has been notified by the government, is nothing but horror from the past. I am provoked by the fact that someone can claim and believe that this should strengthen women's courts. It's really not the reality. I believe that the government party knows from studies that are now done and answers from women in the quite country, that women are against this. I understand very well that they are. What we want is for the decree to be a door opener to health care and not a moral gatekeeper. We want one to come to their supervisor and get help there, so it doesn't help to tell a girl in Finnmark that she is just going to call the health administration and order an airline ticket to get to a hospital. It's an honest thing to think that it's a good solution for the women, for the patients, but I and the Labour Party are completely different in that. We do not want to introduce criminal rounds for women in health care. I mean seriously that this is a serious step back for equality, and for women's rights as patients in health care. I had hoped that the proposal today, which is advanced by SV, would at least have been actually voted on, as I know that there are many in this room who are some with me and the Labour Party in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e783	The right to self-determination is under pressure in many countries. In the United States, several states are tightening up, and there is a Supreme Court judgment there, and not clear decisions by national politicians, which at all affords the possibility of self-determined abortion. In Spain, the conservative government has launched its attack on self-determined abortion. And in Norway, the government undermines the basic premise of self-determined abortion – the recognition that the choice is the woman’s own, and that society cannot stand up to her choice. The right-hand side of the United States, Spain and Norway have in common, is that they give themselves the right to force their morals on all women. The right-hand side of Norway bends women's rights and patient rights, transforming what is today a clear system of determination and an undisputed right to self-determined abortion, into a mosaic of cross-interests, bureaucracy and, not least, state-sanctioned moralism, in which a single group of doctors are granted more moral authority than each woman in Norway. We should not be surprised at that. First we have the Christian People's Party, which for this very reason, perhaps is Norway's most unsympathetic political party, in its belief that the only form of ethics and morality that exists here in the world, is the Christian People's Party's ethics and morality. In the world of the Christian People's Party, the fight against self-determined abortion is a moral stand, while women's liberation and feminism are not. When the Christian People's Party is given the chance, they expose the whole country to this moralism. That's why women's rights are weakened when the Christian People's Party gains power, and that's why my future children will be able to be imposed 55 p.m. Jesus at school. Then it's the right. Bent Höie’s helpless defense of referrals – one of the most spectacular 180-degree turns in modern Norwegian political history – is also nothing to be surprised at. There are many who are, but I don't think it's anything to be surprised about. Right is good at marketing itself as a moderate and popular batch, with slogans that absolutely everyone can agree with. But they're not. Right is a cynical and narrow party of interest. Some are surprised that the Right’s concrete promises and mandates for enforcement have in a short time been turned into evasive interventions on ‘focus’, ‘relative to’, ‘transition’, ‘wide signals’ and ‘previous government’. But that's not weird. The right enforcement power is limited to the interests and groups served by the lot. The emergency at Ahus is no longer so important. Non-profit institutions serving drug treatment are no longer so important. But 8 billion. kr in tax cuts, most of which went to men with power and money, it had the Right Implementing Power to deliver in a short time. The right is fighting for some groups. Young women in a vulnerable situation are not one of them. Young women in a vulnerable situation need politicians to stand behind their right to decide about their own bodies. They do not need tax cuts, inheritance tax exemptions and the right to eternal fishing quotas for billionaires. Then Bent Höie has nothing to offer them at all. It makes Bent Höie an opportunist, and not a feminist.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e796	The new government is based on a basis of values such as: states that the cooperation parties base their policies on freedom and trust in individuals, the family, the founder, the community and the voluntary nature, and that the values of the cooperation parties lie within the principles of the rule of law and democracy, and the Christian and humanist cultural heritage. This value base is in stark contrast to the policy now to be implemented in relation to medical reservation rights. The cooperation parties no longer build their policies on freedom and trust in the individual and family. Here they are not based on the principles of the rule of law and democracy, when the Solberg government and its supporting party Christian People's Party with their 5.6 pst. optors in the back will give permanent doctors the opportunity to reserve themselves against referring women to abortion on the grounds of medical opinion. Everyone shall have the freedom to control his own body. Providing proxy agencies with the possibility to book against, inter alia: referring to abortion is a restriction on the freedom and rights of women. The right of reservation for doctors is a curtailment of the right to self-determined abortion, because women are put in a situation where they do not automatically get the help they need from the public when they need it. In small municipalities with few doctors, this will be particularly vulnerable. I understand that not all doctors support the law of self-determined abortion, but then they should carry out other tasks in the healthcare system, where they do not conflict with their own conscience. Norwegian health services must put patients first — including women. The majority of Steelsets Committee says this in its position, NOW 2013: 1 Life-seeking society: ‘It should not be accepted that the physician’s perceptions of various issues such as abortion, assisted fertilisation and prevention may prevent access to an equivalent and predictable first line in all public health authorities of the country.’» I see the proposal to introduce the right of reservation for doctors as another countermeasure against the law of self-determined abortion. We remember all the programming process in the Right before the elections, where it was a proposal to amend the law on self-determined abortion adopted in 1978. This led women in general and the Right-Women in particular to rebel. They didn't want this change. Now the opponents of self-determined abortion have found another way. They'll give doctors the opportunity to make reservations about referring women to abortion. Now it's completely quiet from the Right Women. I also notice that they are quite absent in the debate here today. They have been caught by an agreement the party has entered into with the Christian People's Party to join the government. I urge the Right-Women to still vote in favour of this proposal here today. The red-green government in 2011 stated in circulars that it is not permissible for permanent residents to reserve themselves against referring to abortion. That's still the way it has to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e814	I have to say that I was almost out of Snorre Serigstad Valen's sulphur-prevalence markings here. We believe that the Right is a People's Party, and the discussion about how narrow the party is, maybe we can take another time. This debate is serious. It's not about the woman's right to abortion, but it's about whether we should allow a few doctors to reserve themselves against referral to abortion for reasons of conscience. Conscience is linked to values and morality, and conscience is about the values of individuals. These values may come on a collision course with the country's vision and the country's values. Sometimes it's very good and very healthy. Conscience is often linked to life and death issues. This is not only discussed here, but it is also discussed in the Council of Europe. In Resolution 1763, the Council of Europe states that no person should be pressured, held responsible for, or discriminated against because they do not want to carry out, facilitate, assist or refer to abortion or active death aid. So it's a discussion that's also taken elsewhere. A liberal and democratic attitude suggests that we tolerate disagreements and differences, even if we are fundamentally in disagreement. Can we respect and tolerate it? Ethics is about dilemmas, choices and positions. So a few doctors have the value point that they don't want to refer women to abortion. Can we give you a chance to do that? Yeah, I mean, actually, society can take it. The assumption is quite clear that the woman is entitled to health care. I also believe that it is best to meet a doctor who is a good conversation partner. Meeting a doctor who is basically against abortion makes it difficult to have a good conversation when a person wants to have an abortion. Then I believe that it is actually better to be referred to another doctor. A lot of women experience a lot of conjecture by having an abortion. This is not a technical question. This is why the dialogue between women and doctors is important, and it should not lead to a burden but, in fact, to support. I believe that, in a democratic free society, we should allow a small number of doctors not to refer – i.e. a reservation option – under given conditions. It's out for consultation now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e827	There is currently no possibility of referral for doctors. That's a lot of reasons. What exists, on the other hand, are people who break the law, and crime is a crime – with a medical coat or without. And when you face crime as a politician, you have two choices: 1) adjust the law to the wishes of the offenders, and 2) clean up the situation to avoid it happening. Choosing to do the first thing – to make a scheme for some doctors who do not want to do their job, and to impose a detour on the patient – is nothing but to make a detour. It is not worth saying that the patient should be at the centre, as the Minister of Health has repeated several times in this debate. It doesn't last, because it's not true, and it won't be any more true if you repeat it many times. It's not to feel in the center of swapping fasts, from someone you've known all your life. It's not to be in the center of hearing a debate about what you've done or have to do is so reprehensible that politicians realize that some doctors won't help you. When you create a new system that involves girls having to work more, argue more and travel longer to get their patient rights fulfilled, the patient is neither in the center nor first; then the patient is the last, and I am against it. I believe that the policy exists for those who need it the most. Every time the Right gets a demanding question about this scheme, they say that they want to find solutions with the Medical Association, but while the Right sits with the Medical Association and draws the map with the roundabouts women have to go to get the help they have the right to, there is someone at the other end of this case and is not being heard – rather on the contrary. That's what women are dealing with. They can't sit at any table to discuss their rights. They're sitting in the gallery, and they're told that they lack popularism. Then you don't feel that much in the center. The proposal has now been put to the hearing – for the record. The vast majority of rapporteurs, including from the Right, say that they are opposed to creating a system that allows doctors to reserve themselves against doing their job. That's very good. But at the same time, there will be negative consequences of sending the case to the municipalities, for rounds of local elections where abortion is a topic, make life more difficult for everyone who is in a situation where they have to commit abortion. There is also a pressure on environmental experts who want them to make reservations, and I don't like them. The representative of Bollestad has said that this is a question of democracy for the Christian People's Party. I totally agree with that, but we have different conclusions, because there will be an hour on every politician's day when you have to ask yourself which side you're on. The answer to the Workers' Party will always be the ones that need us the most. That's not the doctor on this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e840	I think the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen's respect for the views of others in the post he had here speaks for himself. It's not easy to come across minority opinions with such an authoritarian approach that I experienced, and I'm glad I don't meet such attitudes at the Norwegian medical office. By facilitating the possibility of reservation for doctors where it is professional and practical, the Christian People's Party believes that a lower ceiling in the Norwegian health system where there is room to ask the difficult questions, where there is room for future health services to see things from different points of view, and where we do not have a unified healthcare system on difficult questions. Now that we're able to discuss this in a good way when it comes to life and death, we're actually going to make a room inside the sphere where we can meet with minority and majority ideas, with a respect that makes us actually able to land on something that's worthy. What we're discussing here now is whether it's possible to reconcile the right to health care against caring for a doctor's conscience. The Christian People's Party believes that the letter of consultation that has now been sent out of the Council of State should go its way. The Christian People's Party believes that we in this Chamber are going to take a discussion and have a vote on whether we want a reservation option, and not every local government is going to do it. Then we think that when this is not possible in the municipalities, this is a care-for-responsibilities. I've said it before, and I say it again: if it's not possible with a reservation option, it's the woman's right to go ahead. But we want, as far as possible, to be able in a democracy to facilitate, debate and give the opportunity to have minority opinions without being met that we are almost dictatorial.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e852	There can be no doubt that we from the other parties fully respect doctors who, for reasons of conscience, will have nothing to do with abortion or contraception. But what we've been clear about is that then they also have to take the consequences. That means they can't have a job as a regular when there are plenty of other medical positions at the same time. This would be the simplest solution given the arguments both put forward by the Progress Party and by others from the Right. Then we also have to remember that since the abortion law was introduced, the decision-makers have been given an increasingly important role. The decision-makers are the hub of our modern health service. It is the decision-maker who is responsible for guiding and ensuring good treatment and who is to be linked to the rest of the specialist health service. That's exactly why they get a subsidy from the government – to make sure that exactly the job it is to take that responsibility. I respect the views of the Christian People's Party, but I find it strange that they choose to run this particular case – to force through a system that goes to the degrees across the health service that the large majority would like. In fact, I see it as arrogant to the majority in this Chamber and also to the people else and their opinions. I understand even less the Right, who after having had the abortion law up at their national meeting, chooses to force such a heavy value issue into their negotiations. Now they've also really messed it up by making such a complicated and bureaucratic system that they're really able to also question the fixed medical system, which is one of the most successful and most popular health care offerings we have. At first, the municipalities were to decide, but when all the major cities – very often – with right-wing rapporteurs protested against the scheme, they withdrew it and were to operate with over-government of the municipalities, which is also an important principle for the Right not to operate. The result is that one gets big geographical differences, which once again violates the principle of equality for the law. My view is quite clear that people see this as a sneering adjustment of the abortion law – therefore the strong commitment of the population. We see similar mobilization elsewhere in the world, especially in Spain and the United States. It's possible to make mistakes in politics, but in fact, wisdom is one of the most important things. So I sincerely hope – I understand that this is not happening today – that when the matter is brought up again, you exercise this wisdom, listen to the hearings and listen to the people.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e867	Today's debate goes along in many ways the same lines as the media debate has gone on. The working party and SV are consistently talking about booking rights and are hammering on claims about turning operations in the right. I do not expect the Workers' Party and SV to approximate the difference between a right and an opportunity. I might not have thought that I was going to make laughter in this room when I explained what I think is the difference between a right and an opportunity. In fact, I think it's a little sad and a little disrespectful that you don't listen to us when we explain what is the big difference between a reservation right and a reservation option. There is one thing that weighs most heavily on this matter for us. That's the woman's consideration. It is implemented, well described, in the draft consultation that is now out. Then the practice that exists today, as the representative Karin Andersen said instead, can actually be such that you can be anxious that the fight for abortion is in the medical office. Our government is really trying to clean up this practice by presenting a proposal for a solution that primarily safeguards women's rights. We really clean up the practice and create transparency about which doctors it is that want this access – and that is, probably, very few of them. And thirdly, we give room for this possibility of freedom of conscience by a few doctors, as the Medical Council, the Medical Association and others in the social debate have debated, and it is believed to be an essential part of the abortion process itself. A lot is being done today in the medical office and in health centres for young people in providing guidance and advice, both in taking the step of taking abortion and in choosing to carry the child forward. I wish we could experience a somewhat more respectful debate around it, that they had seen that there is a great difference in principle between a right and an opportunity. But I know that this is one thing we're going to debate for a long time, at least until the fall of 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e878	There are a lot of fuss about this debate. One of those twists is the images that especially right here try to create -- one tries to divide those that represent different points of view into three. It is apparently the victims, who are the reservation doctors and the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party. So, according to some representatives here, we represent the majority rule -- that's the left-hand side. I don't know if the Left feels so comfortable with that kind of characteristic, but I think that we get the others at least to tolerate it. And then it's those who haven't understood. It's the media, the population, the women – and Höie in 2012. This debate is also marked, especially by the government parties and the supporters of this proposal – with the exception of those who have always had it, let me say – by fog and rhetoric, a fogging of this with right of reservation and reservation, and they try to tell the people that then sets a woman's rights first. It's something that obviously neither we nor the population understand anything of, because there's no difference here, as far as we can see, and legalizing illegal practices is a very special political exercise. Now I know that the Progress Party is to increase the speed limits, but if it runs for 150-200 km/h through the E18 at Westfold, one would rather set up some photo boxes and increase police controls rather than say it's okay, we're increasing the speed limit to 150 or 200 km/h. But what's serious here is that you have to ask some critical questions. Is this a subject suitable for political horse trading? We mean absolutely no. It's okay to have their point of view, but it's not suitable for political horse trade, and here the Right has gone on a pavement. To the Advancement Party I would like to say that I am sorry – I was not aware of this. There has been little progress in the debate that you have been at the barricades for these reservation doctors. I didn't hear anything about it in the election campaign. I record that you want it, but you should perhaps have been a little clearer at that very point of view. I'm not so sure your voters would have appreciated it so much. Otherwise, I just want to say that the Workers' Party is, of course, behind the women – the patients. For us, this is about a choice of values, a choice of ways. I want to end completely with what Kjeseth said in his post – we need a first line service without reservation. That's what this case is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e891	I understood that the representative Heidi Nordby Lunde was asking for SV's competence in concluding a compromise. I like to share it because we've been practicing a lot of it. When someone sometimes has to accept things that one is not for, because one does not have a majority for it, my first recommendation will be to those who are now going to sit in government for a while, to be honest. The voters understand that the Right does not really mean it now suddenly stands and argues for. You better be honest about that. Reservation possibilities never appeared in the Right Vocabulary before after weeks of negotiations with the Christian People's Party. And very few, neither of us who are against it in this hall or people out there, believe that that conviction came from the Right without any influence of the Christian People's Party. It's an honest thing to say that. I think it is important to go into what has been fig leafed to the right side of this debate, namely the difference between reservation and reservation. Let me just point to what the representative Wilhelmsen Trøen said in his first post today. It was about whether they should have the same right to reserve themselves as hospital personnel, and the representative Wilhelmsen Trøen answers yes. That's the best example of how unclear this is, that even the Right in its contributions to this debate is not even able to distinguish between possibility and right, but compares this with the right to reserve that health professionals in hospitals have. Then it might be a lot of demand that all the women who are going to handle this system at some point when it's being implemented should see that difference. Why is there no difference of significance to what is now proposed, and that Bent Höie was against in 2012? Well, because it's utopian to believe that information in letters and on a website is going to reach all those who are going to get to their decision and ask for referral to abortion, because there's no realism in that this is not going to be a challenge in the districts, where the disability is great, and because it's likely that more doctors than before will reserve themselves when this is legitimized. So it's become a common practice to blame on the previous government in all questions. This is also done today, instead of taking responsibility for yourself. The previous government gave the municipalities a clear call to clean this up. When we see that this has not happened, the answer of the sitting government must be to do something about it. What kind of realism is there in that it's going to get control of this after a change in law, when it's not even trying to get control of it today? Illegal reservation is practised, and the Minister of Health does nothing about it. If the majority will be believed that they have executive power, show it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e902	I would like briefly to comment on a few words as a case in point between the representative Mikalsen and the councillor Höie. One could understand the council so that the centre party was pressed and pushed into the red-green government in this matter, but was now released only after the election. It's a mismanufacture. I learn that the circular that came from the department came after criticism of the lizard that would not give reference to assisted fertilization. That's what was political. When the department's circular and consequences for the firmers who, for reasons of conscience, want to reserve themselves against referral to abortion, were made known in 2012, I spoke early and clearly about my position, which was the same in 2012 as it is today, and for which I did the right thing in my post earlier today. I also co-organized a seminar at Stortinget in January 2013 together with Höie, Davøy and Gåsvatn from the respective Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, just to highlight this matter better after the circular had come. So I basically meant the same thing in 2012 as today, and I thought it would be wrong to say that we were having trouble. We meant the same thing before the election as after. I hear that it's not said about Höie, but it's going to be his problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e911	I'm going to argue about some of the things that are being said in the debate, but first I want to inform you that all the points in the proposal that are on the table today are cut directly out of the Right's website. There are two words that have been changed: it said "Right" two places. I took that away, and then I put in "we" instead. This is an argument that lay on the Right's website after the Right had negotiated away the right of women to freely be able to go to their settler, completely regardless of who it is, and get their right. It was on the Right's website. I was in there, cut it out and made a suggestion of it, because the argument is durable, because it's good, because it's principle, and because it puts the patient in the center. When I hear this debate, it sounds as if you think that a highly trained doctor with a firm, good job is equal to a woman in her life perhaps the greatest crisis. It's not like that. There's a big difference between that and that. It is also very strange to hear that in this case one should tolerate differently thinking in general – there is no problem, no one has problems to tolerate differently thinking – but what this matter is about is to make it firm that is to be allowed to practice their private views, to a human right. It would still be something if you had been in principle and said that you should have a right of reservation. Then I realize that the doctors had at least been satisfied, and then the minister had had a task to ensure that there were some other doctors there who could do the job, and to which you at all failed to relate. But it's not like that either. There shall be a reservation facility. In some municipalities, doctors, who now also legitimize the majority, are going to be able to meet their patients in an offensive way, but there's no one else there to do the job, and so you have to go there on the blackest day of your life and maybe be met like that, as they are now saying, "Yes, but there are some who are so bad to their patients." So look and clean it up! Clean it up! Doctors shall not treat patients with demeaning consequences. Finally, I think I should read from what was on the Right's website. I'm a little unsure if it's still there, but before that it said: ‘It is necessary that fixed medical services, patients’ access to healthcare, meet them with a uniform voice. What your healthcare provider provides you should be the offer you have the right to receive, not the one you choose to sympathise with.’ It opens for now!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e927	I want to meet the representative Nordby Lunde on what she says I should have said. I want to repeat what Torgeir Micaelsen also said, that even though it might not be produced this way, the Labour Party acknowledges that there are several things that could be better even in the period we have ruled. What I experienced was that only last year several municipalities in the country broke the legislation that was clarified in 2011. There have been oversight cases. The countyman here in the area, in Oslo and Akershus, has been very clear. County Lars Sponheim in Hordaland has been very clear. In Telemark, an assessment is soon to be made. Then the Labour Party and I think we need to tighten up to ensure these patient rights. As Julie Brodtkorb said in an exemplary way in the debate at the NRK in 2011, they're going to find something else to do, as Bent Höie has also said before. Then there are also some practical challenges to this. It's said from representatives here that this is very simple. But that's not it. Telemarksavias Varden had an overview of the medical coverage at the medical clinics in Telemark during the day. At a certain medical office that has received a little attention, in Bø, all fixed full lists. That means you're going to have to switch to the Notodden or Sauberad or some other place. So you're told to sit on the bus. We didn't think it was a good solution. I have a great deal of understanding and respect for the conscience aspect, which has been incorporated into the debate. But that's not what we're talking about, because that's not what's going to be the proposal that's being sent out on the phone. There's one difference between conscience. We have a permanent up in West Telemark who wants to make a reservation. He's not going to get it, nor with the proposal of the new government, because there's only one doctor. It's not basically, it's not fair, if you're going to base the argument of conscience. Finally, I would like to tell the representative Treen that I fully agree that we should have respect for each other in this Chamber as well. I don't think we should laugh at each other or do anything else when we stand up here. I also didn't register that some big business representatives did it earlier today. But to the discussion about possibility or right, at least I've pointed out that the point is that one shouldn't have the possibility either. The decision-making system should be for patients and not the opposite. It doesn't help to say in a hearing proposal that this is a strengthening of women's rights, when everyone else sees and understands that it isn't. I have great respect for the different views in the hall, but I'm deeply disagreed with the proposal that a now presents as a sort of solution. I choose to believe that the ring is real. I encourage everyone who lives in this country to participate in the hearing, because that can be done by all citizens. And then we're guaranteed to have the opportunity to debate the matter again. For the Workers' Party, it is also not appropriate to give any possibility to refuse referral to abortion.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e942	It's kind of cynical about taking on the victim role in the Christian People's Party and the Right and accusing the opponents of disrespect when what we're discussing is an actual restriction on the right to self-determined abortion, which an overwhelming majority of the population would not have stepped down. In order to do so, the right-wing representatives shall be forced to vote against their own convictions, while the opposition shall be lectured in terms such as ‘authoritarian’, ‘multiple board’, etc. Yes, Representative Bollestad, it's unsympathetic. And no, representative Örmen Johnsen, you can't find sulphur preachers in SV. The sulphur preachers in Norwegian politics are somewhere else, and the representative Ørmen Johnsen and the rest of the Right know exactly where it is. Some argue with a resolution adopted by the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly of some years ago. It may then be worth mentioning that it was adopted by a narrow majority, with votes from deeply conservative politicians from countries such as Malta, Poland and Italy securing the scarce majority. When you need such friends to legitimize your vision, you have a bad case. The Right Party and the Christian People's Party should like to try to get this debate to be about how offended they are over many's grief, but this time no one is going on. It is not the Right and Christian People's Party, those who force through the majority in this Chamber, it is a sin. It is not the parties that govern the country that are being violated today. If it's bad being a right-wing representative today, you can thank yourself. Right and Christian People's Party representatives can do something about it, too. There can't be women sitting up here in the gallery. Young girls living in the districts can't do that. The overwhelming majority of women in Norway who are against referrals cannot. They thought they could do something about it when they prided themselves on the Right Election Lifts. Now they're made powerless by a Right as if they've turned around, while they've actually sold their position. It must be strange for these women to see the right-hand side play insulted in the debate today, while at the same time the real right to abortion is weakened by the use of partisan and substitute arguments.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e951	The Christian People's Party is drawing up a democratic debate, and it is an important debate in itself. The question is how to attack it. To regulate an anarchy among some is something other than to take a fundamental debate on democratic rules of play. I do not understand why the conscience of the decision-makers is more noble and conscientious than that of other professional groups, and why we do not then take a bigger debate – if there are democratic challenges in the health care system we are going to promise. To this end, far more occupational groups are involved than the permanent workers. And when it's unproblematic for the Christian People's Party that midwives and health sisters are to a large extent going to print contraceptives, I don't understand why we're not taking that dimension and these groups into health care. If we look into the glass ball that the representative of Olaug Bollestad is calling for in this debate, we will be faced with a host of technological challenges. That's when I point to this booking spiral that we're about to lead into, by not having a more principled attitude towards what the first line in the Norwegian health care system is going to do. Then, after all, it's a little easier to deal with a debate about not having any reservations, and rather talk about the reservation options of the specialist health service, when there's actually interference or technology that challenges us, we're going to discuss. But now we're going to discuss what's going to be the offer in the first line. And when it comes to reserving oneself to competence and helping to give advice and guidance to make a decision, we are in a difficult democratic debate. That's what I think is a demanding part of this debate that I encourage the Christian People's Party to take along – and be careful to push groups ahead with the aim of achieving a political victory.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e960	This is really an unreal matter. So the government is seriously opening up so that people who have received the most expensive education can provide society and the most responsible job of being a door opener for all of us to health care, can refuse to provide their patients with a statutory healthcare service. Yes, it should even be possible to refuse to investigate and advise a woman who is considering abortion. This matter is primarily about values and not about the use of words and concepts. The government is willing to send patients, e.g. young, vulnerable women in the districts, in a round dance to find out what kind of practical travel options have to be available or what kind of health services may be available out there, which can provide the assistance you need. Did anyone talk about bureaucracy and simplification? This matter really raises two important questions: What side are we on when it comes to patients and doctors? And the second: should it be allowed for a doctor to refuse to perform the tasks of the job that you have done voluntarily? It is a mountain-wet rule that can also apply to the government, and it goes as follows: Listen to the people – it is no shame to turn!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e971	I am a little stated when Freddy de Ruiter presents it as if we, who support the reservation option, believe that it is the doctors who are the victims in this case. That's really not what this is about. The ability of women to have an abortion will not be reduced. So let me just remind you the following: firstly, women with permanent staff who make a reservation will be offered consultations with other doctors in the vicinity by the next working day. Secondly, it has to be demonstrated by the decision-makers who make use of the reservation option that they have entered into an agreement with a doctor in the vicinity who undertakes to consult on abortion. Secondly, the reservation facility shall include abortion only. Dedicated doctors shall continue to be obliged to give birth to women and to refer to assisted fertilisation. And: Lawyers who take advantage of the reservation opportunity should immediately inform all their patients, in the form of letters, and patients are given the right to exchange their terms of reference as a result of this. In the case of municipalities, they can only enter into booking agreements with a permanent resident if the women on the doctor’s list are offered referral to abortion in another way and without undue disadvantage. Municipalities are responsible for ensuring that there is sufficient access to non-reserved permanent residents. Norway has a reservation right today, which is supported by all parties. It applies to healthcare professionals working in the specialist health service. It's part of abortion law. Today, health professionals may reserve the right to participate in the execution of an abortion. This right of reservation is precisely based on the principles set out in Article 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Individuals shall have the opportunity to express their thoughts, their religion and their freedom of conscience as long as it does not affect the health and rights of others.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e983	The representative, Mr V. Bollestad, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e986	I notice that pictures of the Christian People's Party are being made as if we were going back to the 1970s, but I'm probably the only nurse in this room who has hosted Sex and Society and actually believes that both midwives and health sisters should be able to distribute contraception. It was just supposed to be missing. Now we have discussed a very difficult matter, and it engages us deep into the soul. Then I think, we're now discussing booking options. How, for the future, are we going to be able to discuss difficult issues that will arise, as the Left was also involved, in such a way that we do not reconcile opinions that we do not have, but use the opportunity to actually come up with good solutions, so that we are able to hold a respectful debate on difficult issues that will arise, when ethics and technology meet in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e993	What this matter is about, from the Christian People's Party's point of view, is whether it is possible to combine conscience and patient rights under the current Norwegian law. We've done that before, but it doesn't look like we're doing the same thing in the future. When the abortion law came, there was a reservation for doctors not to perform the abortion itself, even if you have a patient's right under Norwegian law, and, as many have argued here, it follows that you have a duty to perform all the services that that law implies that you are entitled to as a patient. So if there's any question about the principle line, I have to say I'm baffling over many of the posts I've heard here today. And: The reservation access that has been granted to permanent doctors has actually worked since the abortion law was passed, first for general practitioners, then for permanent practitioners, under countless health ministers from the Workers' Party. It has not been discussed or promised in this room once before 2011. And it was very interesting to hear in connection with Kjersti Toppe's articles how that process has been in the then government. Obviously, it's gone completely free. We believe it is possible to combine conscience and rights in this matter. We're not alone in that. The Council of Europe has stated clearly: ‘No person shall be pressured, held liable for, or discriminated against because he/she does not wish to carry out, facilitate, assist or refer to abortion or active death aid.’ This is the result of the resolution adopted by the Council of Europe. It is not by chance, either, that many of those who were the driving force behind it in the Council of Europe were parliamentarians from Eastern Europe. They know well what a one-sided state means. We also have debate on active death aid – it is now before Parliament in Belgium. A majority that goes in order for it to be given all the way down until you're 12 years old. Should the principle that many here today have said that they are for apply, namely, that any service that is required by law is obliged as a doctor to perform even if it goes on life-mortal-questions, unfortunately, it gives a clear direction to what you mean in that case.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e1013	I heard the representative Ruth Mari Grung tell with what understanding and respect the Labour Party meets opponents of important value issues. This was also underlined when the representative Lene Vågslid called the debate 'grums' from the past and referred to 1979. I thought only to create a good mood would draw up a little more gruesome from the past: "I will use my abilities for the best for my patients in accordance with my skill and judgment and never harm anything." I've had the pleasure of keeping some rhetoric for the Medical Association, which I can think a little bit about today. The participants are given the opportunity to debate against each other, where ethical and fundamental contradictions are chosen – in order to be trained. Reservation law has been one of those matters, and one of the strongest submissions I heard recently. It was as short as it was const. The doctor who held it was against the right of reservation, but she was forced by me to argue for, and then she quoted from the original doctor: "I will use my abilities for the best for my patients in accordance with my skill and judgment and never harm anything." The feeling that lay down in that room, where a majority opposed the right of reservation – but which then had to think about what they were actually working on for a day-to-day time – was to take on and feel. I also sat there and knew about it. This is what this debate is about: ethical guidelines and fundamental values of people who have chosen a profession and made a promise. As politicians, we have also chosen what we are doing, where we also face ethical dilemmas without making us victims, and no one here has claimed to be a victim in this debate. But everyone in this room has also sworn to some ideas and values. Then I'm also going to make the Hippocratic oath's words mine before we're going to go to voting soon. It ends something like this: "If I keep this oath faithfully, I will be able to enjoy my life and the pursuit of my art, respected by all men at all times; but if I am distracted from my oath or break it, then the opposite must be my burden." These are the choices that politicians face every day, and that is what this decision-maker also faces every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e1037	The representative Audun Lysbakken has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e1040	I read on the Dagbladet website that no exemption is granted in the Right-Right-Largeningsgruppe. That is, we, who have promoted the proposal to stop this reservation proposal, are going to be in a minority today. But I'd like to finally say this doesn't end here. This is just the beginning of a long political debate, which we know gives rise to a great deal of commitment, and which is going to continue until the government possibly makes a bill to the Stortinget. I know that very many have followed this debate around the country today. I want to encourage them to mobilize in the future. I want to say to the majority in this Chamber: that's how the bourgeois parties have got a majority they can use to almost say what they want in the next few years. But whoever leads also makes good sense to listen. I hope that what is today the majority in this Chamber will reflect on the fact that there is a minority in this Chamber that has the majority of the people in their backs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e1051	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e1054	This thing is really very simple. Should doctors be given a right to set their moral convictions about women's statutory right to abortion? It's not about the despotic regimes in the east, which Hans Olav Syversen understandably wants it to be about. A right which does not have any parallels in other parts of the public sector — the foreign authorities, the police, the Nav and the rest of the public sector — shall be granted to doctors. According to the Christian People's Party and the Right, it's just a coincidence that doctors are going to grant this right to just abortion. I don't believe in that. Heidi Nordby Lunde has previously said that she has been hiding in the office during the debate on this matter. It is good to see that she is out of the office. I followed her posts with interest. It gets exciting to see how she, who now talked so well about promises and oaths, votes in this case, where the right at least until the election had a very clear opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e1063	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e1066	Several refer to a resolution in the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly. I have the pleasure of sitting there and knowing that those resolutions are being adopted by quite a different majority. In this case, there have been many debates, and there is no doubt that there are conservative – especially Catholic – forces on the march in very many countries that want to limit the right to abortion and preferably ban it. That's what we're seeing now starts in Norway too. The Christian People's Party has constitutional proposals within the Stortinget. It will remove the right to abortion in Norway if it is adopted. When the representative Nordby Lunde refers to the doctor who says you shouldn't be harmed, I don't know what she did when she interpreted it now. I'm not going to add anything to her interpretation. I just want to remind you that in countries where there is no right to either medically sound prevention or abortion, there is very much damage. And where doctors are allowed to say that they have more conscience than others when they are opposed to abortion than to abortion – where thousands of women die every year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e1075	I take the word to comment on something that Heidi Nordby Lunde said in her post after she had referred to her interpretation of the doctor. Heidi Nordby Lunde said that this is the case, the matter is about the conscience of doctors. It illustrates the whole debate today and the whole difference between us that is to keep the current situation, and those that are for reservation, reservation, or whatever you want to call it. We do not believe that this matter is about managing a feeling from a doctor who has well paid and a good opportunity to find a job other than a regular one. For us, this case is about women's undivided opportunities to get their patient rights that they are entitled to, without arguing about it, without going anywhere, and without having to look down when they're going to talk about this to anyone. For us, this is about it, and it shows the whole difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e1083	There have been some articles about the arrangement that the government has sent to the hearing, and also some articles that are trying to draw up some very fundamental distinctions. I will not reply to each article, but just explain that we currently have a reservation right for healthcare professionals working in the specialist health service. I have not registered that some political parties have proposed to abolish that right. This means that well-trained doctors on public behalf, who don't even work privately, but who are employed by the public, have a reservation right today in the practice of abortion in the specialist health service. That scheme is based on two guiding principles. One is that you want health professionals in that kind of conscience issue to have the opportunity to make reservations. The second is that the reservation should not go beyond the patient. So you have to organise work at the hospital so that it doesn't affect the patient's ability and the right to have abortion done. That is exactly what is also the principles of the ability to reserve the property of the decision-makers. The reason why one cannot then have a right in the fixed medical system – but must have an opportunity – is that there are so many places in the country that if a right had been introduced, it would really have gone down on the patient. In hospitals, a lot of people work. There you can organise the work in such a way that it does not affect the patient. If you had a right in the fixed medical system, it would have gone beyond the patient. Therefore, an option based on local conditions is introduced. It is only when you can organise healthcare in such a way that it does not affect the patient’s ability to have his or her rights fulfilled, that the individual doctor will have a right of reservation. In this way, it is seen that there is a very clear link between the balance of these two important relationships and the arrangement that I perceive that all the parties are in favour of, which is in the specialist health service, and the arrangement that we are now proposing in the fixed medical system. Then very many of the so-called "principal," very clear arguments that have been in this debate actually fall away, unless the same parties now call for the abolition of the reservation facility that exists in the specialist health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e1092	It is interesting to hear how the European Council of Europe, which is the organisation in which the European Convention of Human Rights has its basis – it is just a conservative and Catholic assembly, and it is over. That's the way it can be done. Or we can, like the head of SV, Light Hill, reduce a question of conscience to a gallup question. Then it's clear that we're on a slightly different side of the track when we're discussing. There is no doubt that in our society the state and the individual are increasingly interwoven. We meet it publicly in almost every arena in our society. We've got a very omnipotent state. For this reason, in these demarcated areas, the same State should also make every effort to address fundamental issues of conscience where possible. I understand that many people in this room seem uninterested. But then it's absolutely right, as the Council of State here says, that there must have consequences beyond what we're discussing here today. I don't think it's a step forward if that's the direction you're pointing towards Norwegian social development. I mean – and I wish it was possible to discuss it – that patients' rights and conscience issues can be combined and how the state should deal with it, on these very limited issues related to life and death. I hope that it is still possible when this debate is over here today. It's definitely going to be alive until we get a final decision, and certainly after that. And maybe it's a paradox that this is happening just in a constitutional year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e1103	The representative Tove Karoline Knutsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e1106	I understand very well that the health minister needs a rhetorical straw straw straw, but I ask that he not later as if it is the same thing to have reservation rights in the specialist health service in a hospital, as to be a regular. If I come to a hospital, the head of department is responsible for the fact that the staff is such that I get help. I do not see the doctors who have reserved, or are on vacation or have leave. Something quite different is if I, as a patient, come to the decision maker, the decision maker that I had thought would help me when I needed it the most. That's the big problem -- not that someone can have a conscience to choose like that. But when you take on a job that is described like this and so on, you can't reserve yourself from doing that job when it looks until those degrees go out on patients like it does in this case. That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e1113	The representative, Lene Vågslid, has had the word twice in the past and is given the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e1116	Today's legislation is in any case very clear, and that's what we're dealing with right now. People around the country have made an assessment of the illegal practices that have taken place, and I expect – until we change the law and regulations – that the senior responsible, the Minister of Health, will do something about it. In my county, which has got a little bit of mention in this case, it is determined to reserve itself against inserting the spiral or against printing out the pill. I am very pleased that the Minister of Health is very clear that it will not apply. I also expect to hear from the Minister of Health what he and the government have intended to do with all of the fixatives that have emerged in the media and said that they, for example, are. do not want to insert spiral. For now we have at least been made clear by the Minister of Health that this is about referral to abortion. It's bad enough in itself, but at least I expect to see one get to tighten even more within the practice that we see is still going on, despite the fact that it's not allowed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e1123	As expected, this has become an exciting, fresh and sometimes sharp debate. I was actually going to leave the debate as it stood, but when the Health Minister finally took the floor, I felt the need to comment on a few of the circumstances he took up. In my view, and I want to say a total collapse's view, there's a big difference between doing the abortion procedure itself – because the form and dramaturgy of the procedure are different than actually signing the request of a woman who wants to have the procedure carried out. There's a big difference in the problem itself. That's one reason why it's not possible to compare with what the Health Minister suggests that we should have as a principle position. The second reason is that this issue was addressed when Norway received its modern abortion law at the end of the 1970s. The very right of reservation for doctors in the specialist healthcare service — i.e. the right to reserve the right to participate in the intervention itself — and other professional groups are part of Norwegian abortion legislation. It hasn't been touched, and no one has been against it since the late 1970s. That's why you shouldn't do it now, and no one's proposing either. The other issue I would like to comment on is that there is reason to believe that if you were to open up the decision-makers to have a type of reservation, it would in practice only mean leaving it to another doctor, either in the neighbouring office of the medical office or in a neighbouring municipality, and saying that I do not want to sign the request, but I will send you to someone who is going to sign. The difference in the degrees of conscience around these questions is hard for me to understand, but it gets to be. The problem is that at some point someone has to sign this request. Someone has to do the conversation with the woman. Some have to explain what kind of alternatives to abortion society can contribute. Some have to explain to the woman what the intervention itself is in purely medical terms, and what kind it has. It will be health professionals – read: doctors in hospitals – who need to be able to do more. I am absolutely sure that as soon as you have opened this tab of a potentially large door, the requirements will also come from doctors in the specialist health service that you should not only be able to reserve yourself against the procedure itself, but also against doing these tasks. And then we're on. Finally, I just want to underline what the Audun Lighthouse says: this case is not over today. It's all starting now, because the government has notified its legislative changes and regulatory changes, and they're now at the hearing. Once again, I encourage everyone to participate in that debate, and I also encourage the government parties to listen to what is now moving people in this debate, and, if necessary, to put away the bill if the hearing would show that this is not in all ways sustainable.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e1138	A lot has been tried in this debate, both by rhetorical grip and misappropriation, but what it is all about most deeply is to choose a side. This debate is about choosing a page. This debate is not about making any of the most resourceful people in our society victims, nor is it about the fact that there is a sin on the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party here. This case is about the rights of women in a vulnerable situation. When one then tries philosophical, rhetorical approaches, such as: The representative Nordby Lunde did, so at least I feel very confident that in the Workers' Party – together with the other parties supporting this proposal – we are taking the woman's perspective. We're adding values like equal opportunities, equal rights, and always standing on the most vulnerable side when you have to choose. I am very proud of that here today, and I feel very confident that it is a right choice. And leave that to the debate in the future as well. For this is a value choice, this is a direction choice, and I hope that through the hearing one finds out that it makes sense to turn around.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e1147	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e1150	I fully support the last speech by the representative Freddy de Ruiter here, on the focus of the debate, to support and protect weak groups. The limit on what health professionals can refrain from is also something we are discussing here today, and not just the position of the weak women. When I hear what we're talking about today related to democracy, but also to bureaucracy, I'm very concerned that we're going to design a kind of 'conscience court' for a few, exclusive doctors, and that you're going to use bureaucracy and energy in the debate on this. I'm very sceptical that we're going in that direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e1157	What this debate has proved is that it is obvious that by strengthening the right to one, it goes beyond the right to another. When one increases the right of the doctor to oppose referral to abortion, a right to a woman weakens. What's interesting about this discussion in general can be expressed in a statement that I came up with, that when you look down in the abyss, the reason is also looking at you. In other words, once a compromise has been reached with the other party, there is a tendency for one to think of what the compromise stands for. One has suddenly changed, one has taken the other position. Then the novelty comes that ‘right’ is made a ‘possible’. The Declaration of Human Rights states in Article 1 on the right to life, freedom and personal security. It is interesting to see how the right side of this review, when you turn "right" into "possibility", gets "possibility of life", "possibility of personal security", "possibility of freedom". It's an interesting rewrite. But I took the floor to speak to women in the district's case. I myself come from North Norway. It's a part of the country where people have to travel by plane to get to hospital. The possibilities of receiving equivalent treatment and equivalent opportunities to take abortion there are quite different from if you live in Oslo. This proposal asks for the impact of streaming out of a situation where people live extremely close, where there are many opportunities. But it's open to everyone here that a 17-year-old, the intern Finnmark, not only suddenly can take a plane to Tromsø to have an abortion. This possibility is not existing. The further away you get central strokes, the more dishes for women become sweaty. The closer the population is, the harder this becomes for women. So this is a blow for women in the districts, and in Northern Norway in particular. It's hard for them. I hope this is not the last word that has been said in this debate. This matter is going to come up again, and the longer the debate goes, the clearer this will be, both for women around the country and for people else.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e1171	I am very pleased that the Left is not part of the agreement between the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party on reservation rights. And I also thank the representatives from SV, Karin Andersen, Audun Lysbakken and Snorre Serigstad Valen for the draft representative. Today, in Norway, we have a principle of self-determined abortion: all women should have the right to decide about their own bodies. When it comes to equality, I often think that ethnic Norwegian women are almost assimilated to the ethnic Norwegian man – something remains, but they are almost there. That is also the perspective we have in the debate, but then we forget that Norway does not just consist of Norwegian women. Norway also consists of minority women, women with different religions, with different skin color. If we look at their equality, where is it? It's not there. They're not where the Norwegian woman is, where maybe all that's left is equal pay for equal work. For many immigrant women, and immigrant girls, you are not allowed to choose leisure activities as a small child. You can't choose your own friends, you can't choose education, and what we think is the most basic, that you don't have the right to choose your own spouse. We know this. Many of them don't always speak Norwegian well, and a lot of people also go to doctors with immigrant backgrounds, and a lot of them are Muslims. What pressure will these doctors experience from a Muslim environment to reserve themselves, and what honor will be left in their environment if you don't let yourself be reserved, when religion, Islam, is so clear that you're opposed to abortion in the first place? What are the possibilities for immigrant women – when they are already under pressure? Is the Storting going to help evict the immigrant women's right to determine their own bodies? Do we really want to? I don't want this Big thing to be on! I would also like to end by saying that the party of progress is often talking about immigrant women. Often when they talk about the immigrant women and their equality struggle, I am silent and do not criticize the Progress Party back, because I am very much in agreement. Where's the Progress Party now? Where has it become of the good will to help immigrant women? Should we make it even more difficult for immigrant women to achieve full equality? I speak as hot as I can to our cooperation parties that there must be no shame in turning! We must not let there be any prestige and honour in this. It is still possible for the three parties to disregard the honor and leave the principle of the right to decide over their own bodies a guiding principle also for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e1182	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e1196	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e1205	First of all, I would like to start by thanking the Committee for a good consideration of the matter. The proposal we are going to debate today is whether the Storting should ask the bookmaking industry to assess whether they should develop a common ethical framework and to assess the establishment of a professional selection or ethical advice for the bookmaking industry, a little after the model of the Professional Committee of the Press. There is broad consensus in the Committee that a good and ongoing debate on book publishing, especially around ethics, is important. It is also the Committee's view that this debate is alive today, and sometimes it also flares up in strength, especially in connection with some controversial publication of books. The Professional Committee of the Press is a system of self-determination. It is outside the legal system and the law, and it is also without sanctions. The legal system is governed by law, both in the press and in the book industry. It must also be for the industry to assess for itself whether there is a need for common ethical guidelines and a professional sample to ensure that these are followed. I think it would be a little premature if the state were to exert pressure on the publishing industry to develop a common ethical framework. The State is responsible for pursuing an active literature policy and contributing to healthy development. It is also in the Committee's view that common driving rules would certainly be positive and could contribute to an even higher ethical awareness, but asking the industry to draw up legislation or ethical advice would be to intervene directly in the freedom and content of the industry. Now it also turns out that this is not necessary either. The industry is already discussing these issues, and yesterday it became known that the publishing association now wants to develop guidelines for prosecuting. And as it looks, it's going to be clear before summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e1220	I am pleased that there is an overall committee that supports the intention of the Christian People's Party in the matter. It is agreed that the industry itself must take an initiative, whether it be a common ethical framework or an ethical advice for the book industry. At the same time, the Committee recognises that the State has a responsibility to pursue an active literature policy. In this context, it is also necessary for the State to contribute to a healthy development of dialogue with the industry itself. All parties state in the clause that ‘common driving rules for the book industry can also work positively and could increase the ethical awareness of publishers and authors’. The Christian People's Party believes it would be wise for the industry itself to consider how to design a common ethical framework. We also believe that consideration should be given to establishing a professional sample or ethical advice for the book industry. However, as we write in the vote, it is the industry itself that must take the initiative in this regard, and that has now happened, as the rapporteur of the matter also said. I register that the Publishing Association will now produce a so-called ethical poster. The Board of Directors of the Publishers’ Association has now concluded that a common set of guidelines will assist the further development of the editorial assessments internally in the publishers. Therefore, the Governing Board has decided to incorporate ethical guidelines on the procedure into the association’s statutes. I think it is a wise decision that will serve both the readers and the industry itself. Of course, we politicians should respect what this will look like in the end and how the industry itself will deal with this in the practical everyday life. The Constitutional Act § 100 states: ‘Freedom of expression should be established.’ In addition, it says: "It is for the authorities of the State to bring matters to justice for an open and public debate." Free media and the right to speak through the written word are essential for any society. The state has a responsibility to facilitate this, and therefore it is good and a misguided policy when the industry receives support and special arrangements that contribute to making it viable. The scheme has been successful in many areas. Many books are published in Norwegian. As well as all the Norwegians regularly read books, and we have a large and comprehensive network of dealers. Strong professionals have helped to increase literacy. The Christian People's Party will pursue an active literature policy, and as far as the proposal for a representative is concerned, I am pleased that all parties share our view that it should be interesting for the industry itself to evaluate a professional selection or an ethical council. The Christian People's Party suggests, as indicated in the recommendation, that the state can contribute and facilitate if the literature industry itself wishes to. I am pleased that the Publishing Association has now taken the ball and is working on the reflections that are reflected in the proposal for a representative that we are now considering. The publishing association will now send its proposal to the hearing in its organisation, and I am sure that the industry itself will make wise contributions. Finally, this debate is about the conditions of freedom of expression and the right of individuals to express themselves, but also, of course, about being protected from overstepping. Where these boundaries go, always must be the subject of conversation even in the public space. I am therefore addressing the proposal we have made in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e1258	The representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e1261	A proposal has been launched for the government to initiate the bookmaking industry to work towards the establishment of a common ethical framework and an ethical council or professional selection. The government has an ambitious literature policy. Our objective is to publish in Norway a wide range of books and in a variety of diversity. It shall be of high quality and books shall be available throughout the country. The country contributes to this by a variety of different instruments. Common to the instruments is that the State leaves to the industry itself to assess which books are to be published. I agree that there should always be a good ethical debate about the publication of books to ensure that freedom of expression is well managed towards individuals. In my view, the legal system should be responsible for the legal limits for which books can be published. This limit lies at the intersection of freedom of expression and the right to privacy. This is not an absolute limit, and it is in this frontier country that ethical issues can come to the fore. It is primarily the author himself, but also the publisher, who is responsible for ensuring the quality of a good process and the information on which a book is based. I believe that it is up to the book industry itself to assess whether there is a need for common ethical guidelines and a professional sample to ensure that these are followed. There are many relationships that are different for the book industry and the press. This means that, in my opinion, it would be unfortunate if the state were to exert pressure on the publishing industry to develop a common ethical framework. It would be to directly intervene in the freedom and content of an industry. Yesterday, as many people have been involved, it turned out that there is no need to exert pressure on the industry in this case. The industry is well in the process of discussing these issues, and yesterday it was also clear that the Board of Publishers’ Association has concluded that a common set of guidelines on case law publications should be established. These guidelines will assist the editorial evaluations of the publishers, but no enforcement body will be set up following the model of the Professional Committee of the Press. As I understand it, the plan is to send this proposal for ethical guidelines for the procedure at the hearing in the organisation, and that the formal decision to include them in the Statute of the Association will be taken at the General Assembly in June this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e1282	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e1288	Then Stortinget is ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e1296	During the debate, Mr Micasen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to maintain the clarification that there is no right to refuse referral to abortion, contraception, assisted fertilisation or other normal procedures.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e1327	During the debate, Mr Bekkevold has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. The government is asked to invite the bookmaking industry to make an assessment of how a common ethical framework for the business can be designed. 2nd@item: inlistbox The government is asked to invite the bookmaking industry to make an assessment of whether a professional selection or an ethical advice for the bookmaking industry can be established according to the model of the Professional Selection of the Press.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-27.ana.ud1782e1366	There is no record. As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
