ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e32	The representative of Hege Haukeland Liadal has asked for the floor to withdraw a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e35	I refer to the representative proposals of the representatives of Hadia Tajik, Tove Karoline Knutsen and myself to approve Harstad as a free city for a persecuted musician. The proposal is withdrawn on behalf of the co-representatives, as the proposal has already been respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e40	The representative of Hege Haukeland Liadal's announcement that that proposal has now been withdrawn is taken into account. The representative of Terje Aasland will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e45	On behalf of the representatives of Ingrid Heggø, Anna Ljunggren, Per Rune Henriksen and myself, I would like to make a proposal on equivalent network tariffs in the regional network and the central network for large consumers with a high usage time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e50	The representative, Fredric Holen Bjørdal, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e53	On behalf of the representatives of Dag Terje Andersen, Anette Trettebergstuen, Lise Christoffersen, Sonja Mandt and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a safer working environment for workers in the sphere of violence and tragedy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e58	The representative, Rasmus Hansson, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e61	On behalf of the representatives of Ingunn Gjerstad, Sveinung Rotevatn and myself, I would like to make proposals to amend the Sales Act in order to reduce the advertising of meat. On behalf of myself, I would also like to make proposals for the closure of fur animal nutrition.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e69	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e81	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Foreign Minister Børge Brende and the Councils of State Monica Mæland and Robert Eriksson will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Anette Trettebergstuen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e88	We believe there is sufficient knowledge on the link between negative health effects and temporaryity from international research, including research from other Nordic countries. Quote ended. In particular, the combination of temporary employees and the increased possibility of longer working days give overall results that may be unfortunate. This is particularly the case in those sectors where there is already a high risk of exploitation of workers and in sectors where there is a high risk of accidents. Quote ended. With regard to the amendments on working time, we are concerned about the health and safety consequences of the proposals. The proposal will hamper our efforts to reduce accidents, social dumping and labour crime. Quote ended. These are not quotations from a reading article by Labour Party representatives, they are assessments by the government’s – authorities – own experts on working life, the Labour Inspectorate, and are presented in their written consultation responses to the government’s proposal for changes to the Working Environment Act. That the government implements policies without listening to the social partners and research is nothing new. They adhere to a law of permitment which both the employee and the employer are protesting against, a proposal for a cut in sick pay that was so poorly anchored that it was drawn before treatment, and now, among other things, proposed. changes in the rule of temporaryity, for which disabled people would have been asked to be used in the fight for – without making any impression on the government. Does the Council of State think that the Labour Inspectorate is wrong when they are so strongly warning against government proposals for changes to the Working Environment Act?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e101	The Council of State believes that it is incredibly important and interesting to read the STAMI report. The STAMI report makes it clear in the main conclusion that it is difficult to measure the effect of the health reasons related to temporary employment based on the Norwegian legislation that we have, and also on the Norwegian labour market as such. I think it is important to create a working life that allows more people to get a foot within the ordinary working life. Let there be no doubt: this government insists that the general rule should be fixed employment. Then it's also important, when we see that many young people are out of work, where the option is no job, that temporary employment can be a springboard for more people to get into the workplace. It is also clear from the big business report of the previous government that research, reports that have been carried out, shows that two out of three people who have had temporary employment are in permanent employment after two years. I think it's positive, I think it's good, trying to create a working life where the bridge into the ordinary working life gets wider, gets bigger, gets better, where more people who are out of work get the opportunity to try their way into work. This safe working life must be pursued by this government, but we also want a flexible, good working life. So that's not what the representative says, that the government has proposed. The government has sent out some alternative proposals for consultation. The government has not presented any matters in this room related to it; the government will present matters in this room. What the proposals will actually mean is that we will come back when we present those issues. But: Yes, we want a flexible, safe and family-friendly working life with room for more.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e115	So those who organize those groups of disabled people will be asked to be used in the way the government now uses them. But it is interesting that the Council of State also mentions STAMI, because it is not only the Labour Inspectorate who points out that the government's consultation proposals for changes to the Work Environment Act overall will lead to greater accident risks and health damage and make the fight against labour-life crime more difficult. STAMI, the State's own Labour Research Institute, points out the same thing, that the risk of accidents will rise and that they are deeply concerned. In other contexts, the Council of State has had such great confidence in the Labour Inspectorate that there is no way in which the tasks of supervision should be performed. But it may seem that this trust is weakened, or that the Labour Inspectorate is good to have only when it agrees with the government. So I ask again, does the Council of State mean that the Labour Inspectorate and STAMI are wrong? Can the Council of State rule out the possibility for the Labour Inspectorate to be involved? If not, how can the Council of State even consider introducing a policy that could have this kind of negative impact?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e124	There is no research that shows that if you, for example, expands the average calculation for one week – what this government has sent out at the hearing – it does not keep the safe protection rules in the Working Environment Act, where one should still not be able to work more than 300 hours overtime if one is organised, and 200 hours if one is unorganised. It is still the case that, within a week – following the suggestions we have sent out at the hearing – no more than 54 hours can be worked on average. What we're opening up to is flexibility within these safety values of the Working Environment Act. There is no research that shows that ensuring these safety pillars in our work environment law and creating more flexibility will lead to increased health risks. It also confirms the STAMI report, and then I ask the representative to read the entire STAMI report, not just a few excerpts, but read the main conclusion of the STAMI report, which is quite clear on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e129	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Fredric Holen Bjørdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e132	This week there was a hearing in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, which is yet to be seen as the pure grievance against the budget presented by the government. One of the issues that is causing the most harm in this round is what is perceived as an arrogance by the government when a refusal to listen to organizations and business, which is reported daily on companies that have to cancel because the government has made it too expensive to permit. Now there is hardly enough a living soul outside the Right and the Progress Party that agrees with the government that the weakening of the Permitting Code was a good idea. What is it that's going to be for the government to turn around?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e137	What is needed is the situation on the labour market. The government follows the labour market situation closely, continuously, every day. The last leave figures from Nav also state that there is no more leave than before, nor is increased leave marked. But I share the concerns that exist in some sectors – that is worrying. Therefore, the government is closely monitoring the labour market situation. Should the situation mean that you have to take action, this government is willing to take action. The figures and surveys available for the labour market as of the Nav date show that there is no basis for taking those measures at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e142	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e145	One of the prime tasks of the Minister of Labour is to ensure that people who have fallen out of work can get back in. Contributing to a trial is one of the instruments. Therefore, the Christian People's Party agrees with the Council of State that temporary employment can be one of the important instruments. But when we see the other suggestions, whether it's cut in the transitional benefit, which is activity to be able to qualify again for work, or for example. The measures that we do not believe help more people to get into work are cut off in holiday pay for the unemployed. One must not just use whip, one must use the measures that we know to work. And what the Council of State has been busy about are several places of action, giving people who have fallen outside, education, work training and the right to try. The budget presented cut into action areas. We're actually back on the red-green level. That's not good enough, and I think the Council of State knows that too. Why does he not want to focus more on the measures that we know work?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e151	Let me first say that this government has an increase in the red-green government in this budget of 25 pst in terms of the number of places of action with wage subsidies linked to red-collar pay. I think it's important to have a lot of different tools if you're going to reach a lot of people who're out of work. Different talent developers are needed to advance the talent of the individual and help them get back to work. That is why this government has also tripled the efforts of social entrepreneurs. The mob project is one of the social entrepreneurs who do an amazing job and help people quickly and well back to the ordinary working life. This government thinks it's important to use all the good forces. It is also necessary to look at the overall use of instruments against the out-of-work group in order to help them return to work. I believe that we have a good policy arrangement for 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e156	Sveinung Rotevatern – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e159	A large number of options in this room have been used to open up a general permission for temporary settings and have been given access by the selector to do so. It also supports the Left, and we are pleased that the government has sent out the proposals to the audience. However, not all workers are covered by the Employment Environment Act in Norway. There are many workers who follow service workers' laws or university and university law, and we see great differences between different sectors when it comes to the scope of temporary settings. Generally, it is 9 pst., but in e.g. The university and higher education sector is the number 40 pst. The left sees that there is a need to get more regulation between different sectors, and yes, we need some tightening in other sectors. My question is: does the Council of State see the need for more equal rules, and does he see the need to make some restrictions in other sectors?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e170	The Government Platform states that we should review both the rules related to the Civil Service Act and those applicable to the recruitment of research and training personnel. I will not advertise when and how those changes come. I think those questions need to be addressed to those who are responsible for them. The Civil Service Act falls within the responsibility of the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, and the field of research and education falls within the responsibility of the Minister of Knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e175	Kirsti Bergstø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e178	The Minister of Labour will build bridges in the workplace, but proposes longer working days, more weekend work and more overtime. I fear that bridge will be too long for disabled people, young people and single mothers to cross it. In addition, more temporary work is proposed — and at a time when too many already have too loose links with the labour market. I wonder how the Minister of Labour will secure all of them by opening up even more temporary labour.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e187	Me and the government are very busy taking people seriously. People live different lives. People have different professions. People work in different places. People have different needs to get their working day and their family life together. I want to create greater flexibility – a better working life policy, which goes hand in hand with the family life of the individual. Take the carpenter from Verdal who travels to Mo in Rana, as an example: he could well expect to have the opportunity to work a little longer days – within the safe rules of maximum working hours – when he is on site and on mission from Monday to Thursday, in order to come home and have a longer weekend with his family. That he himself gets the opportunity to agree it with his employer, I think is a good policy. I trust and believe that the individual takes good care of himself and his interests. That flexibility I want to give them, so that they can make family life and working life go together in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e194	The size goes to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e197	My question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. There is a special day in Stortinget today. The Prime Minister will be here later with a statement. It is because we are now facing a tragic armed conflict, an armed conflict that can tear Syria and Iraq apart as countries from each other, with very great and tragic humanitarian consequences. It's a very serious decision. Military effort is always the last tool, but must never stand alone. We now experience four major humanitarian crises at level 3: in South Sudan, in the Central African Republic, in Iraq and in Syria. The result is that we see the worst refugee situation after the Second World War. Only in Syria are in reality ten million people on the run – six million internally driven, and almost four million on the run from the country. Lebanon closed its borders for refugees early in October. So we can see an even more demanding humanitarian disaster in the first place, because Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey know that they do not have the capacity to receive more refugees. At the same time, Italy terminates its rescue operation in the Mediterranean Sea. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: What can Norway do to strengthen the ability of neighbouring countries to accept more refugees and to ensure that the EU and Europe as a whole take a greater responsibility for people on the run?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e210	Thank you for a very important question. The representative of Hareide is absolutely right that we are facing one of the worst humanitarian crises, the disasters, in recent times as a result of the conflict in Syria and Iraq. In addition, we have humanitarian disasters in Africa that contribute to a great deal of pressure from refugees across the Mediterranean. This has to be handled with different instruments. Firstly, much more humanitarian assistance is needed in the areas affected. This is why the government has committed to a significant increase in humanitarian resources both this year and next year. Norway is one of the largest donors in Syria and Iraq in the humanitarian field. It is worrying that there is no better system to help refugees seeking refuge across the Mediterranean. What we've seen from there is shocking. Just before I came to Stortinget this morning early, I talked to Italy's new foreign minister and discussed, among other things. how to ensure the situation of these boat refugees, so that we do not see any more terrible drownings. As I said, as far as Norway's efforts are concerned, we are one of the great humanitarian donors. We are now contributing militarily to the fight against the ISIL extremist organisation. In the case of refugees, which in and of themselves are not the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it is that when we look at the quota figure, Norway is one of the countries in Europe which receives the most, both in absolute terms and in relation to the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e221	I thank you for the good answer. At the same time as we see images from the south of Europe where people desperately try to come to a Europe that can give them freedom, Italy ends its rescue operation, Mare Nostrum, which has scared 90,000 people. So we know that the EU now has an alternative. At the same time, questions are asked whether this option is good enough and whether it could be the same as the rescue operation to Italy has been supported. My question is: Will Norway take initiatives towards the EU to ensure that there is now a more co-ordinated effort from an integrated Europe in the current situation in southern Europe, with the critical consequences we now see?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e229	The short answer to that is yes. One of the reasons I called the Italian Minister of Foreign Affairs this morning early was to confirm that Norway is interested in continuing in the task force Task Force Mediterranean, which has helped to save many of these boat refugees. But this has to be viewed in its entirety. Firstly, we can read in Norway – also in the case of new asylum seekers – about the situation in Mogadishu, in Asmara in Eritrea and in South Sudan, so we need to step up aid in those countries that are in the midst of a humanitarian disaster. Secondly, we are in a situation where we now see the effect that Libya is so weakened as a country that it has become a land area more and more. We don't have control of the refugee mass that comes over Libya and that is exposed to the great risks it poses. In addition, the EU needs to strengthen its capacity to deal with these refugees when they arrive. We all have to take responsibility. This is not the responsibility of Italy alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e238	There will be follow-up questions – first Kjell Ingolf Roppstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e241	I would also like to thank you for the answer and a great deal of commitment on the part of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. If you lift your eyes, it's a total of over 50 million people who are on the run. Just in the last year, there's 6 million more. The dramatic thing is that in 2013 only a little over half of the appeals the United Nations sent out, where they asked for financial and humanitarian aid, were granted. It means that the world community doesn't set up. There are millions of people who are on the run, who are not getting the help they need. In the middle of this, we see that ISIL is here. It will lead to even more suffering and even more fear. Ebola is a huge challenge. It can be said that it is only when ISIL and Ebola hit strongly and hit the West that efforts are increasing. But my challenge to the Minister for Foreign Affairs concerns the long-term help. It's very important that we can set up, so that the appeals are followed up, and contribute to the long-term work, so that Ebola doesn't break out, for example.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e250	I can join all of those assessments. What we've seen over the past half-and-a-half-year period is that foreign policy has become even more evident in domestic policy. We can read it from the number of asylum seekers to Norway and situations in Africa. We have foreign warriors traveling to areas, and we have foreign fighters coming back. We ourselves have been in the situation that we had to increase the preparedness for terrorism in the middle of the common holiday because of the threat situation in Norway. It is a long-term effort both to reduce humanitarian disasters and to strengthen the ability of countries – especially the weakest countries – to deal with these crises themselves. It is a preventive work of peace and reconciliation. It's about human rights: when we see the first human rights violations, it's often an indication that things are going wrong. In the case of ebola, the outbreak in both Sierra Leone and Liberia illustrates that they have a health care system that has not been able to do any preventive work at all. It's a big weakness. Therefore, we need to combine humanitarian assistance with long-term development assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e257	Anniken Huitfeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e260	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his good answers. We will be able to discuss the situation in Iraq and Afghanistan later today, and we have had very good cooperation with the government on these issues. Especially in the context of sending Norwegian soldiers to Iraq, there has been good cooperation with the government, which we will continue in the future. We have also seen a foreign minister who has a great commitment to the situation in the Middle East. My question is that when we now see such a disaster, there and elsewhere in the world, with so many people on the run, it is important that the government is engaged. Isn't this just a time when, as one of the world's richest countries, we can reach an agreement on 1 pst., a level of propriety, in the case of Norwegian aid? It is important for Norway, but it is also important for more countries in the world to contribute to more assistance. Will the Minister of Foreign Affairs enter into an agreement on 1 pst. in assistance from Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e269	First, I would like to thank you for nice words, which I can also return. The cooperation we have had on many important foreign and security policy issues in the last year has been a strength for Norway. The fact that we can now stand together in the management of the ISIL extremist organisation is very important. There is no doubt that with the humanitarian disasters in the midst of it, more development aid and more humanitarian aid are needed. For this reason, the government has submitted a budget with a record budget for development aid. We're increasing the development budget by over 1 billion. kr. In terms of the percentage, we are around the same level as in 2006, 2007 and 2008, but a percentage of the last few years of red-green government. But I think we should be satisfied with the development budget we have now presented, because we have made clear priorities within that budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e276	Live Signe Navarsete – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e279	There are many, large and difficult situations around the world, more than one has seen for a long time. In 2011, many NATO countries joined Libya to lead Gaddafi. There were many good reasons for doing so, but afterwards, a set of disasters and great sufferings for the inhabitants. Many have fled. Today, the Prime Minister comes to the Stortinget. She wants to inform us that Norway is going to participate in Iraq against ISIL. What Norway is a great force for is humanitarian aid. We are not a defence power. Does the Council of State think that it is right that Norway should give priority to the deployment of defence forces? Should we not also put our funds into humanitarian aid and show that we can make a difference in the world for others who are suffering today?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e288	We have to be able to do two things at once. We need to step up humanitarian aid. We are going to do more for the internally displaced inside Syria and Iraq. We're going to do more for the refugees in the neighbouring countries. We're still going to be one of the countries in Europe that accepts most quota refugees from the area, but we're up in a totally extraordinary situation, where we see an extremist organisation, an organization like ISIL, controlling an area now almost from Aleppo, towards the Mediterranean, on the border of a NATO country, Turkey, far into Iraq, all the way up to Mosul, the second largest city. There are different ways to fight ISIL. The best way is to make the peshmerga, that is, the soldiers belonging to Iraqi Kurdistan, and the Iraqi army able to strike back this organization. Iraq has asked the international community for help. 50 countries set up, including Norway. I think, unfortunately, there is no other way than to combine the humanitarian with fighting back to stop the medieval methods that we see this extremist organization using.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e293	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e297	I also believe that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has responded well to the challenges we face throughout this region. The challenges of the small, bad boats that come across the Mediterranean right now – while we are here talking – and which Norwegian ships also meet and have to take responsibility for, may provide a sense of acute action that Europe must be united about. When Italy has made a great effort to save lives, it's also our job to join the split to save lives in the future. I just want to make sure that the Council of States believes that it is right to use resources to have people picking up people in the Mediterranean, as it is today – that we cannot jump from the international responsibility we have to save lives, that Norwegian ships making an effort here make a fantastic effort and should get a "cry" for it, and that there is no alternative but to pick people up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e304	Completely agree – that is the humanitarian imperative. You cannot sail past refugees in spider boats — refugees who can drown at any time. You have to help them. Norway has contributed through the intervention force, as well as Norwegian ships. So the maritime sector has taken responsibility. But this needs to be handled and seen in a broader context. The problems start where the humanitarian disasters are. Let me mention Syria, a middle-income country, to which refugees came four years ago. Today it is a humanitarian disaster. The prevention of the kind of civil wars and the kind of development that is important. Once the disaster has happened, we must be there to help. We need to help neighbouring countries. We must also take responsibility in the situation that has arisen. It is so dangerous to spend so much time on the Mediterranean in those types of boats — and many exploit it economically — that efforts should also be increased, for example. Libya, so that it doesn't happen, because the risk is great.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e311	Board Vegar Solhjell – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e314	I feel that the Foreign Minister responds with great, understood seriousness in this situation, but not all sides of the government's policy seriously asks for it. There are more refugees in the world now than ever since the Second World War, according to the United Nations. If it is one year in our lifetime that we should do something extraordinary, it must be this year. The Foreign Minister is right to say that we are facing an extraordinary threat in Iraq and Syria at ISIL, but we are facing an equally exceptional refugee crisis in the same countries. And neighboring countries accept millions of refugees. What had thwarted now was a leader of a great European virtue for a special effort for refugees, when it is the worst year since the Second World War. So my question is: will the government be such a leader by taking the invitation from many parties in the Stortinget that we also receive more refugees in Norway, for example. from Iraq and Syria?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e319	As I explained, I believe that we have made extraordinary efforts both humanitarianly and widely in this area. This year, we have allocated over $1 billion to Syria, to Iraq and to neighbouring countries in order to deal with this situation. Norway is one of the countries in Europe that receives most quota refugees in absolute terms, and we are no. 2 by Liechtenstein in relation to the population. So of course, we can always consider doing more, but I don't think we're going to sub-communicate that we're doing more both in the region and at home than we've done in previous years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e324	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e327	My question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. There are today negotiations between the EU and the United States on a transatlantic trade and investment partnership, abbreviated TTIP. A negotiator on common rules and standards for almost all areas of goods and services and for stronger rights for foreign investors. The agreement will strengthen global investors’ interests instead of the interests of national governmental powers, and it can open up genetically modified and hormone-treated food, based on the desire for economic growth for the EU and the United States. Norway may have to take over much of the EU legislation in place through the EEA Agreement, and thus be subject to the conclusion of the TTIP Agreement by the United States and the EU. Norway is protecting its citizens today through a clear law in the environment, health and workers' rights. The TTIP agreement and the proposed investor-state dispute settlement regime may change the standards in Norway. In 2003, Philip Morris tried to sue the Norwegian authorities for selecting Norwegian tobacco products with a health risk. They didn't come along because of our national law. Australia is now in danger of losing a similar lawsuit from the American tobacco company. Australia has lost national jurisdiction as a result of its being associated with a supranational court through a trade agreement with Hong Kong. The EU is divided into the issue of the ISDS system, which provides Norway with a good opportunity to influence the EU on this issue. Is the Council of State agreed with the Centre Party that it would be unacceptable for such an agreement to give investors the right to sue the government when a caretaker of their inhabitants by regulating the law, for example. health and environment? If he does not support such a system, what does the government do to affect a split EU in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e338	This question deserves to be put into a slightly wider context. We are once again experiencing a far too weak international economic growth. Not enough jobs are created. One of the areas where growth can be helped is by increasing trade. We know that from before. Since 1970, the value of global trade has increased by the eighth time, while at the same time we have seen an enormous increase in wealth and poverty reduction. The government's preferred solution is to find solutions in the multilateral context of the WTO. That is why we have placed great emphasis on achieving a negotiated outcome, the Doha Round, which started in 2001, but unfortunately it has not progressed. Last year there was a breakthrough through the Bali Trade Facilities Agreement, but it has stopped due to disagreement within the WTO on the food security clause. As a result of the process not continuing in the WTO, large, mega-regional trade agreements between the EU and the United States and between the United States and major East Asian countries are being discussed. These negotiations are ongoing, and Norway obviously has a great interest in what is happening, as the EU and the United States are a significant part of our exports. If there is an agreement on a so-called transatlantic free trade agreement, it will have a great impact on Norway anyway, and we need to find good solutions through the EEA Agreement and together with the EU. I myself have had several conversations with Michael Froman, who is the leading person in the United States within this. It contains many elements, including: the so-called bilateral investment protection agreements in dispute which Norway has not concluded for several years. They have a lot of nuances attached to them, but because of the time I think I have to get back to it in the answer to the follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e345	I'd like to follow up with a little bit of a different question, but a similar one. Negotiations on the TTIP agreement have not been directly involved in Norway; they go between the EU and the United States. In contrast, this has been the case with the TISA agreement. Between others, the European Public Federation, EPSU, is concerned that TISA, i.e. an agreement in the field of services, appears to contain clauses that will push forward privatisation that would be difficult and almost impossible to reverse, thus preventing national governmental powers in the management of public services. They also fear that TISA will make it harder to regulate the financial sector because something of intention seems to be deregulating it. And there's a lot to say about the financial crisis that has been. Can the government guarantee that such effects will not result from any Norwegian signing of the TISA agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e354	The service market is a huge market, and Norway has many offensive interests there, including: through the energy sector and the maritime sector, and we have it in maritime insurance, etc. We are now continuing the work actively carried out by the previous government to establish a TISA agreement, to ensure Norwegian businesses market access in many countries. And many countries do not have that type of market access for Norway because of a lack of international regulation. With regard to the claims that any TISA agreement may force the outsourcing and privatisation of the public sector, it is wrong. A TISA agreement cannot do that. This will be up to the authorities themselves to regulate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e363	There will be follow-up questions – first from Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e367	Future trade agreements cannot promote liberalised trade; they must also take care of the environment and health. We also have to be careful so that trade agreements are not specially designed for the interests of the international large group rather than for the interests of the nation states and the people most. Now it is the case that both of these trade agreements that have been mentioned are covered by a large secret. National parliaments know very little, people know very little, and that is why there is little opportunity for a qualified debate. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is simply whether the Stortinget will soon be given more information on the TISA Agreement in particular, and whether Norway will support a large part of the EU Member States' demand for less secrecy related to the agreement negotiated between the EU and the United States.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e376	I can answer yes to both of these questions. With regard to Norway’s opening offer in TISA, it was posted on the Internet, on UD’s websites, and it has been widely communicated. It does not change what is the existing Norwegian policy. We have already gone relatively far in opening up the Norwegian market for services, so so far we have not had to offer anything in addition to what is currently the law. Then we'll see when the negotiations continue. It is clear that the Stortinget will be consulted before any changes to these positions if this leads to Norway having to change some of the existing legislation or legislation. Nor should we forget when we mention this with the environment and health, which is very important, that Norway, as an active participant in these negotiations, has a great opportunity to ensure that this also comes in as elements. In terms of greater transparency around the transatlantic trade agreement, we have every interest in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e387	Anniken Huitfeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e390	Now the Right Party of the Republicans has won a majority in the U.S. Senate. I believe that Obama and the Democrats are more concerned with Norwegian interests in having high environmental standards, worker standards and health standards. Trade must not become a competition to have the lowest possible standards. Then we weaken the rights of workers in all countries. My question is how does the Minister for Foreign Affairs consider that the Republicans have now won a majority in two chambers in order to safeguard Norwegian interests in high standards in these areas in international trade negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e395	I don't think what we've seen in this mid-election result in the United States will change the U.S. trade policy. Traditionally, Republicans have been stronger followers of free trade than the Democrats have been. In this way Norway, as I said in another answer, wants a new dynamic around the WTO. Our preferred solution is the World Trade Organisation, not bilateral free trade agreements or large regional free trade agreements. I hope that there will be a dynamic around this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e400	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e403	My question goes to the Minister of Industry. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in a previous reply in this round, an EU-US agreement will have a major impact on Norway. It also shows the report as, among other things, The Ministry of Industry presented earlier in spring. My question is quite clear and simple: Does the government work to think through various measures to compensate for any agreement between the EU and the United States, despite what the Minister for Foreign Affairs says about our focus on the WTO?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e410	What the government is doing right now is following this process very carefully. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, there is no doubt that such an agreement can have a very significant impact on Norway. At an early stage, we made an interministerial report in which we assessed a possible impact for Norway. Then we follow the negotiations as well as we can – we are not party to these negotiations. We are talking to those who are party to the negotiations, we are discussing it at the EFTA meetings – the next meeting is now in November – and we have established a trade policy dialogue with the United States, above all. to inform about the EEA Agreement, which is not very known there. So we use all channels, and through our EEA membership, we have also asked the EU to keep up-to-date on what concerns us in the EEA Agreement. However, it is far too early for us now to assess the impact and, where appropriate, what action should have been taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e415	Board Vegar Solhjell – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e418	It was not good to know which state council would ask now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e423	The starting point is the Minister of Foreign Affairs, but the representative may choose.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e427	I'm trying on the Minister of Industry. What I want to ask is what is called the investor-state dispute resolution mechanism, which is now the most controversial issue in these agreements, in the European debate. As the Minister of Economic Affairs certainly knows, there is a number of countries that have already warned that it may be relevant for them not to participate in an agreement involving such a mechanism, there is a great deal of resistance to it, and it has been a long time since Norway has entered into that kind of solution itself, which the Foreign Minister was also involved in. Then the European Minister met in the European Committee, and in the public record he can read that he answered questions about it: ‘We have not given any signals in the negotiations because we have also not known anything about what this looks like, and because we do not, in principle, have any resistance to such mechanisms.’ Does it mean that the government has no view of this? Does the government intend to take any view of it in the near future, since this could potentially be an important agreement for Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e441	What I can answer is that we don't have any investor-state dispute settlements in our free trade agreements. It's not an element there. The need for international arbitration is due to the fact that some countries do not provide the investor with the necessary protection because of this. weak, absent or biased legal institutions. We are committed to ensuring dispute resolution mechanisms to protect the investor from illegitimate regulation, not from regulatory regulation as such. This is something we'll come back to. We are now working on our investment agreements, as we have announced that we will consider providing consultation – bilateral investment agreements and model solutions for this – and this will also be discussed, but it will be done in an open and good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e450	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e453	I prefer the Minister of Foreign Affairs, even if this goes against each other. After all, the EU negotiating mandate for the free trade negotiations was published and released in October and is out of the question. My questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs are: Is he satisfied with the openness surrounding the process on the part of the European Union and the United States? Do we and the Minister have sufficient access to information? And can he say a little more about how to work concretely towards the EU in order to safeguard Norway's interests?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e462	If the question is whether we are sitting around the negotiating table in the case of such an important agreement, which is also of great importance to us because this is our second most important export market – if we merge the US and the EU, we talk about 70-80 pst. of our exports - then the answer is no. We are trying to gather as much information as possible through the Americans and through the EU, and we are familiar with the various elements of the negotiations. We must not forget what is the background for this. Both the EU and the US want more job creation, they want more trade – they know it leads to higher welfare. Therefore, they want to reach such an agreement, when there is no progress in the WTO. And we do what we can to safeguard our national interests with the form of association that Norway has chosen through the EEA Agreement. The representative may be satisfied. This is something that we think about every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e469	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e472	My question goes to the Minister of Industry. Traditionally, Norway has been one of the countries in the rich part of the world that has scora highest in terms of innovation and founding. However, new figures show an alarming development. We lose ground on various international entrepreneurial and innovatory statistics. Given that Norway is totally dependent on having innovation skills in the world class to secure value creation, and that entrepreneurs and innovators are heavily influenced in this way, the trend is eightfold. Fortunately, it's by the way easy to better stand. Some of the most important things that can be done politically are using different incentives to counteract the capital drought experienced by founders and innovators in that part of the business development process called the valley of death. Investment in an entrepreneur must be as attractive as investment in ownership. The government proposes 110 million in the State budget proposal. kr more to Innovation Norway’s establishment grant scheme. It's really great, but it doesn't solve this problem. A solution as simple and inexpensive as a seed fund scheme for the TTOs and incubators, however, will be very accurate. However, despite the fact that this was negotiated into this year's budgetary agreement, as a verbal proposal, the government has chosen to reject this in its draft budget, with the foundation 'inappropriate'. For both the Left and all the actors who are asking for such a measure, it would be very interesting to hear what the government and the Minister of Industry support such a claim.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e487	I fully agree with the questioner that we have a challenge, and therefore the government in the draft budget has been committed to strengthening both the innovation power, the technology development potential and the competitiveness of the existing business community and creating the new business environment and facilitating new entrepreneurs. This is what we do when we strengthen the establishment grant scheme, the environmental technology scheme, the BIA scheme and the FORNY 2020, the technical and industrial institutes and several programmes in the Research Council, which are designed to contribute to new technologies and the development of today's business life, and which are designed to facilitate entrepreneurs. We fully agree with the need for seed capital. This year, two seed funds have been deployed, which have just found co-investors in the private sector and are now to start investing in businesses. We have chosen to give priority to a single earlier phase, namely the establishment of the grant scheme, which comes even earlier than when a business is started. The Health Declaration is very clear that we should also facilitate pollen and seed capital, but in this round we have done a different priority: an even earlier phase.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e494	I thank the Minister for the answer, and I'm very pleased that they give priority to traditional seed funds, and without accelerating the state budget negotiations, I'm sure I won't be able to reveal a great deal when I say that the Left will have a separate seed fund scheme for the TTOs and the incubators on the writing block this year. In addition, I can inform the Minister of Industry that we are going to set aside funds for a third traditional seed fund, to which I believe the Minister is very positive. The Minister of Industry then knows, of course, that if the Left gets an impact on it at the negotiating table, the Sarsia Seed Fund will be very well located. And there is little doubt that the western city of cremation and value creation can really capitalize on risk capital worth 500 million. kr. I believe that the Minister of Industry has agreed with the Minister for the Environment, and that the Left can contribute to the improvement of a good budget in her area too, and that she can confirm that a third seed fund is both sensible and necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e503	I will in no way interfere with the negotiations that are now taking place in Stortinget, but we have been made up of different seed schemes, to which the representative here refers. We're dedicated to looking at the different schemes. There's other ways to do this than the traditional one. We also look at a lot of other areas where entrepreneurs need help. A business start-up plan, which allows us to have a comprehensive business start-up policy, we are in complete agreement, and it is very important if we are to create the new business.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e510	Follow-up questions will be raised – first Pål Farstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e514	I have talked to the Council of State on several occasions during the last year about the need for a more offensive travel life policy, including from this pulpit. I've done that because Norway has a greater potential as a destination than what we can take out. A commitment to Norwegian travel life is a commitment to business start-ups, innovation, start-ups and increased value creation in District Norway, where many of the travel businesses are located. Based on previous answers, I have the impression that the Council of State has largely shared this view. At the same time, the government has responded with a strong cut in Innovation Norway’s travel life initiative, a cut that will hit the international marketing of Norway hard. To this left has black again that the cut has to be reversed, that the 40 million. kr must be in again. My question is how the Council of State will strengthen travel life and innovation in travel life with the government's cut-off proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e521	We fully agree that the tourism industry in Norway has a high potential. Developments in recent years have been in the direction of more time and more money for the world, but Norway has not taken part in this growth. Now it's been a positive season this summer for travel – it's very good, but that means we have to use tools that actually work. I'm not sure if we've done enough. Travel life is not so much different from other businesses. There is a need for more focus on transport, lower taxes and taxes, more simplification – large, small and medium-sized enterprises have the same needs as the rest of industry. That's what this government has been committed to. Then we have reduced some of the support for Innovation Norway. We're still using over 200 million. kr for profiling and tourism support in areas where other businesses finance themselves. We've done that because we think it's a bet area that has a future in front of it. But I'm probably in doubt if those funds are used properly enough, if they hit, and if they contribute to such an increase. That's why we have... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e528	That's it. Ingrid Hegø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e533	The representative Fleet was active in the debate on seed funds in 2012 and said among other things. that one from the Right thought one should behave better in the future. He called for, among others. new seed funds – and their facilities. Then I understand from the answer from the Minister of Industry that there was no room for new seed funds in this year's budget. Then I have good advice on what one can reverse. The one is the billion-dollar cut, the money that's gone to the richest in the country, and the other is actually shutting down the ideological sale of state corporations, corporations that actually give 15 billion. kr in exchange. My question is: why does Right think that seed funds are no longer a forward-looking measure, and what has changed since 2012?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e542	Nothing has changed, and the Sundvolden statement is very clear that we are for both pollen funds and seed funds. Two funds have been deployed this year to start investing in enterprises. We have therefore prioritised a single earlier phase in addition to a number of new innovation additions at BIA, at SkattenFUNN, at FORNY – i.e. a number of schemes to contribute to research and innovation in the existing and new industries – and thus provide the basis for more entrepreneurs and more growth-intensive businesses. There's no contradiction, but we have to do some priorities, and we've done that now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e547	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e550	All the additions that the Council of State spoke about in its first statement on the draft budget we are now considering are good. Let's be clear. But we are at the top of the world in terms of costs, then we must also be at the top of the world in terms of innovation and innovation. I think it is quite important that we listen to initiatives that come, especially when initiatives come from different sectors. We now have an initiative in Grimstad on the South. The business community, research institutions and the University of Agder are behind this laboratory. It's a laboratory that's important for development. This time it wasn't included in the plus list to the state council. While some priorities have been set, what is needed to ensure that new initiatives, where universities and businesses are agreed, are included in the Council's priority list?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e557	I have had several meetings with NODE and have heard a lot about Sørlandslab. It is a very exciting project, and it lies – as the representative understands – in a borderline between knowledge and business. I have been honest with NODE that the Ministry of Industry does not have its own budgets for this type of pilot laboratory, which certainly many more will also need. But we've promised to keep working on this. I'm going to work with the Minister of Knowledge, and we're going to look further on this project, which is still at an early stage, but which is very exciting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e562	Geir Pollestad - until last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e565	Another proposal in the budget which is negative for small traders and entrepreneurs is the proposal to increase the VAT registration limit from NOK 50 000 to NOK 150 000. During the consultation in Stortinget, the NHO, the LVG, the FA, the farmers’ organisations and others have strongly criticised the proposal, which affects 25 000 enterprises in Norway. In today's edition of the nation, it can be read that Gjermund Hageseter, despite this, says, "My impression is that most people are happy with the proposal." And he adds, as a reason, "... it's easier for the state." Then I would like to take the opportunity to ask the Minister of Industry, who knows the business world well: what companies are this good for? Is it really good news for the companies that the state makes 125 million? kr on a proposal that the same companies have to pay. The question is, who are the government parties who have the impression of being happy with the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e574	Sometimes I think it's important that politicians do what they actually promised. This is a promise that three out of four bourgeois parties have made. It's a promise made in the Health Declaration, and that's to meet consumers. Consumers are going to be happy. I get feedback from the same organisations that the asker has spoken to, that they are opposed to this, and they find that this has consequences. But this is a consumer-friendly decision. Of course, I cannot answer for what Gjermund Hagesetter has said.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e582	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e585	My question is to the Minister of Labour. The few are planning to get pregnant when you're young without education, or are alone. Just as little, you plan a break in your life as you go into a relationship. Yet it happens. It's because life is a practical matter – and not a theoretical exercise. The question is whether we want to facilitate the situation for young people growing up with single-parents to have a stable and independent economy and a security at the bottom, or whether it should be a trap of poverty alone. The transitional benefit means that you have a small but still safe income by acquiring training and qualifying for work. Anne Kristine Lehn is a single-parent. She told Dagbladet: ‘... with 10 000 kroner a month paid in transitional allowances, we can live a sober life with enough money for food and clothes as she grows to.’ — and here’s something important — ‘The benefit has given me the peace to dry up at school.’ In the same case, the Minister of Labour tells us that it will still be possible to receive support for more than one year, but does not say anything about how this should be combined with reducing the benefit from three to two years. I wonder, can the Council of State guarantee that anyone in the same situation as those currently active can also in the future get transitional support to get themselves and their children a safe life?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e601	First, thank you for the question. I think that's a good and important question. What the government is very concerned about is: the main welfare policy that can be pursued is to ensure that people are self-sufficient through their own income. It is therefore important to facilitate the rapid, good and well-followed return of those who are on their own and support children. More than half of those currently receiving transitional benefits have a foothold in the workplace. I think it's important that we help them get both of their feet into work, so that they get the opportunity to be self-sufficient. So it's important to say, I think, in the case of children who grow up with low-income parents or with parents who are out of work – just to quote my predecessor, from the Workers' Party, Anniken Huitfeldt, who said on 16 October 2011: ‘Some of the most difficult things about being poor as a child is being excluded from social activities.’ In addition, it says: ‘Huitfeldt mentions the following two actions on our question of what the party will do to bring down the number of poor children in this country: * More youth holiday and leisure activities through sport *Income-rated parental benefit for kindergarten [[...]] This pointed Huitfeldt at. That is why I am pleased that this government is targeting the measures against the young people who need it the most – that 30 000 more families are now getting lower child care costs, that those young people who go to high school and have parents with low finances are getting NOK 10 000 more in scholarships. This government spends 115 million. to enable these young people to participate in leisure activities and to take advantage of holiday offers. So this government is targeting the instruments against those who need it the most, while at the same time it is important to make it possible for the parents who are outside the labour market to participate in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e622	Safety is in the workplace, but safety is also in a safe working life – with both legs planted in the workplace. That's why SV believes in a working line that works. We know that today's transition benefit works just so that you can qualify to get a job, as opposed to not having work experience or education enough to be able to work safely over time. What is the alternative? Well, it's to receive supplementary social assistance in-between and combine it with bedding – a loose link to work, which provides little security and a poor platform. We know that transition aid works. I'm wondering, what's the best line of work? Is it that single-parents receive safe qualifications for working life through today's system, or is it referring to unsafe jobs, possibly social assistance?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e629	The safest and best way to pursue good work-line policies is to help these parents get into working life in a fast and good way. The parents who need longer time to retrain, to take up education in order to cope with normal working life, maintain this government's exceptional provisions. They may take up to three years of training to get into the labour market. For those who have a child who is ill — severely disabled or chronically ill — this government retains the exception to the 18-year-old transitional benefit. If you have a child with temporary illness, this government applies the derogation that allows you to stay home with the child and receive transitional benefits until the child is in school. Thus, today’s exceptions are maintained, while strengthening the line of work – with closer and better follow-up – so that those who are alone with their children are able to experience one of the greatest freedoms in a faster and better way: self-sufficiency through their own income. I think that's good for the parents, and for the kids.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e636	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e639	There are many unique parents in this country, and that's perhaps one of the toughest jobs you have. The transitional regime has worked, it has been researched. I wonder if the Council of State and the government have read the research that Fafo has done, which shows not only that lone dependants come to work when they are allowed to qualify in peace and quiet with income, but it even says here that relatively ‘more non-Western immigrants than Norwegians go to work after the social welfare period’. This is also a system that works well, where the requirement for activity was reinforced when SV joined the government. Then I have to ask the Council of State: is he familiar with this research, which says that the system works well and gets people to work, and that it even works better for non-Western immigrants? Why remove a good job-creating measure and ensure children against permanent poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e644	Firstly, this government does not remove a good measure. This government is doing a good job even better. I do not agree with Andersen’s representative when she says that they should be allowed to ‘qualify in peace and quiet’. I think they should be allowed to be qualified with good help and guidance, with good follow-up, which is targeted, so you get back to work faster. The aim must not be to go through a qualification cycle as far as possible, but actually get help and follow-up as quickly as possible to return to work. But then the government – and I think that Andersen and I agree with that – sees that some people need longer time for education, and some have demanding tasks related to the responsibility for children with disabilities and children with chronic diseases. Therefore, this government also established the current derogation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e653	Fredric Holen Bjørdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e656	The Stoltenberg government wasn't quite happy with the transitional support as it was designed when we took over, and therefore we changed it from being a passive support to becoming an activity support. We requested that you be unemployed, actively looking for a job or taking action, but it would still be valid for up to three years. This has given a positive development, and our activity requirement has given good effect. Then the question is: what is it that, in spite of this positive development, despite the fact that the social benefits help to move people away from social security and above to self-sustaining income-giving work, does the Minister of Labour still think that it is so important to cut the life-base of these, mainly the women?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e661	It's not important to cut down on the basis of life. What's important is to make sure that they get a better life base faster. I cannot understand the representative's point when he believes it is positive that you should be able to go and wait for three years to get a good job in the workplace. If you can put in the effort sooner and better to help them back in one year, it will increase their income faster, that will give them both feet into the labour market faster. Remember that 54 pst. a part-time job is already part-time and is already a part-time job. My goal and my ambition and the government's ambition is to make sure that they have the opportunity to enjoy self-sufficiency with their own income much faster than is the case today. Therefore, in the 1990s, the Workers' Party changed the transitional benefit, which was also a major debate at the time, but which has proved to be a great success when the contractions of the Gro Harlem Brundtland era were taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e667	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e670	The government has the first year been very busy selling state-owned companies, and it's probably no surprise to anyone. There has always been a taboo for both the Right and the Advance Party with increased privatisation and sales of state-owned companies. But it is surprising that the government is so offensive to work, with such a bad argument. This shows that sales are primarily ideologically motivated, not least in view of the arguments surrounding the spread of power. How much power shall be spread, and where shall the power be sent? Many suggest that several of the companies that are for sale will end up on foreign hands. What the government actually does is sell companies that go well in Norway to non-resident companies or paper funds and then use the money to invest in non-resident companies. Why shouldn't the state be able to invest in companies also here in the country? Also in the big business message that the Council of State comes with in this respect, it is clear that there is no trace of a lack of buying interest. One authority for purchase that was available, which was linked to Hydro, has even said no. My question therefore goes to the Minister of Industry. Can the Minister of Industry respond to how the government's planned sale will affect increased value creation and safe jobs here to land?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e681	This time I'm going to try to answer the right question, which I understand is that I didn't do the last time. It is such that we have submitted a statement of ownership where we are very clear that the state is and will continue to be a large owner in Norwegian business. There are few countries that have more state ownership than Norway has. What we have done is to ask the question, where should the state own, and where should it not own? For some companies, there is no reason other than that the State has a purely commercial ownership. There's not enough reason for the state to be the owner when we're as dominant as we are, so we've said that we're asking for authority to sell these companies. But what's special is that the companies we've now privatized are based on powers acquired by the red-green government. Entra and Cermaq were mandates obtained by the red-green government. The last thing the red-green government did was sell the EMU to two private equity companies just before it went off. So the sudden ideological disagreement with these companies I'm just asking myself. The state is going to provide good framework conditions for the entire business world, and we're still going to own a good deal of companies, but then we're going to do it because there's good reason for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e692	I want to repeat that they sell Norwegian state owned companies that are going well and that give large billions of revenue to the community each year. There is no contrast between state ownership and professional ownership, for the Council of State is now budgeting for a 15 billion dividend. kr next year from the State-owned companies, under the headings of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. These are annual revenues that disappear if the Council of State sells out companies. These annual revenues actually contribute to the growth of the country through active industrial policies, they finance hospitals, schools, etc., but in the future the arrows indicate that oil revenues will be reduced. Governments have turned down 80 billion. kr in tax revenue, so how will the Council of State cover these tens of billions of dollars in loss of income in the future, with respect to increased value creation?The representative said 80 billion. kr in tax revenues and these tens of billions, but meant 8 million. kr in tax bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e701	We're in a lucky situation. Of course, we do not sell businesses – or privatize them – because we need money. We're in a very lucky situation. But I just have to repeat: the powers we have managed have been managed on the basis of powers acquired by the red-green government – which now, after a year, has a completely different ideological relationship with this. It's very special. I can confirm that the state is and is going to be a big owner in Norwegian business, but it would be good for business if we got a greater diversity. The entra listing resulted in over 6,000 small savers as shareholders. Two thirds of the employees bought holdings in the company in which they work. I think that's good for business.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e710	It opens for follow-up questions – first Odd Omland.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e713	I hear what the Minister of Industry says, but I would rather encourage her to listen a little more to Petter Stordalen, who in the newspaper of October 17 said that we have to look beyond political and ideological principles and not sell at all costs, but rather see what makes sense. In the same article he quoted Göran Persson, who wisely said that we should not sell the mountain, the forest or the water. The Stordalen also believes, among other things: that it is unwise to sell the Fly train. I agree, the airline is a company that has developed very positively under state ownership, and it's going well. It has almost 100 pst. customer satisfaction. It also represents an important part of the infrastructure around the capital. Can the Minister of Industry explain how it will improve the income of the State, the company's operations and benefit customers especially if the company is sold?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e720	Now I've just explained that what we've done in the ownership notice is going through which companies there are good reasons why the state owns and which companies there are not good reasons why we own, in addition to just business. We own companies that do it well, and we own companies that don't do it so well, because it's important. The flight – and let me just say that Stortinget will have all the opportunity to discuss both the Flytrain and all the other companies – operates on a competitive line. Just as little as the state needs to own a bus company, a taxi company or a shipping company, we need to own the Fly train.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e725	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e728	I think it's just as unfortunate to have an ideological relationship with state ownership as it is to have an ideological approach to sales in state corporations. This is definitely a space where one should use the pragmatic approach. What is the consequence of a strong sale now is that one will provide additional funds to the State pension fund abroad and that Norway will have greater ownership of the world's stock exchanges. We know that in the third quarter, Telenor had a gross operating surplus of 10.3 billion. kr. The oil fund had 0.1 pst in the same period. returns. My question is: can it count as a specific justification, including for this government, to ensure national ownership of key Norwegian enterprises, and can it count as a specific justification that it can actually be a good investment to be a heavy owner of key Norwegian enterprises such as Telenor?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e735	We have just explained in the ownership notice which companies there are good reasons why the state owns, and where there are no such reasons, and the Stortinget will be allowed to discuss this. What's a little special is that when the red-green government – with the Senter party in government – sells e.g. EOS, as one of the last things it does, it's not ideology. When this government goes through and justifies state ownership, it's ideology. That's a very funny argument. I'd like to be accused of having ideology. I'm in politics. It's our job to make political assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e741	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e744	I think it was a huge loss of government to go in for a hall, first of the EMUs – allow Cermaq to sell the EMUs out – and then of Cermaq, who is world-leading on breeding. With this, the government has sold itself completely out of Norwegian farming. Breeding is thought to be one of the most important industries in Norway in the future — larger than oil. Therefore, it is quite appropriate to compare this with the situation we were facing in the 1970s – if one were to sell out of Statoil – or with Finland, if they were to sell out of Nokia before it took off. But it's done. The question is whether a new tabulator is currently in progress. The Cermaq Hall generated revenues of about $9 billion. kr. Where are they going? Are they just going straight into the Oil Fund, right to the rest of the world, they too, or will the government use the money to give back, invest in the coastal communities, and simply contribute to creating a sustainable growth future for the farming industry in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e751	It's an honest thing to change and think that what you did in government was stupid. It's not so rare that happens when you get into opposition. It is now that I believe that there are good reasons why the state does not need to be the owner of one of the very many breeding companies. Cermaq is an exciting company, and I am absolutely sure that Mitsubishi is going to be a good manager of that company. Then it must not surprise anyone, especially those who are in favour of property taxes, that there are non-resident owners who buy up in some companies. Marine Harvest's owner does not pay taxes on wealth. SalMar's owner does.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e756	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e768	I would like to thank you for this opportunity to brief the European Parliament on developments in Iraq and Afghanistan and on Norwegian contributions to the work of creating peace and security in the two countries. This summer, ISIS moved into Iraq from Syria. Since then, we have witnessed monstrous and brutal acts that affect innocent people. Thousands of people are killed in regular executions. No group or religious direction has been spared. Massive assaults against children, women and men of all ages occur every day. ISIL's sabres roll into the TV rooms and on social media all over the world. These actions cannot be accepted by the world. As my Danish Prime Minister's colleague Helle Thorning-Schmidt said: ‘We have seen two possibilities in the deepest sense. Either we help solve crises out there in the world. Or we'll show up and hope it doesn't hit ourselves." Norway cannot close its eyes. Norway must contribute. ISIL gained territorial control of parts of the Anbar province in Iraq early in 2013 after gradually strengthening itself. ISIL controls or has influence over one third of the territory of Iraq and Syria. An estimated 7-8 million people live in these areas. The attack on Mosul in June showed how strong they had become, what a threat they pose to Iraq, to the region and internationally. It became clear that the Iraqi authorities themselves were unable to deal with this threat. ISIL differs from a number of other terrorist groups. Their methods are so brutal that even Al Qaida has taken a distance from them. They have clear territorial ambitions, appear to be self-financing, convey a strong ideological conviction, have considerable recruitment capacity and military capacity. Leadership is mainly Iraqi, but according to some sources, the group has attracted foreign fighters from as many as 90 other countries. The long-standing sectarian development of Iraq has contributed to ISIL’s foothold. The conflict in Syria has allowed the terrorist organization to grow. ISISIL's ruthless use of violence and warfare is unacceptable and must be stopped. ISIL poses a threat to Iraq, Syria, the region and our own security. We have a responsibility to make our contribution to the fact that values and attitudes that terrorists represent are not spreading. The fight against ISIL is about the fight against terrorism and extreme acts against civilians. The effort to combat ISIL is therefore a common battle against a common threat – a common struggle to create safe lives and human dignity. Several countries launched an approach to weapons in August to strengthen the Kurdish peshmerga forces, and the US bombed ISIL positions. A concrete Norwegian military contribution to ISIL has been under planning for some time. Following the NATO summit in Wales, two important assumptions for Norwegian military contributions have come into place. A broad coalition has been established in which both western countries and a number of countries in the region have joined forces against ISIL. The United States has played a crucial role in bringing the region together. There has been a new government in Iraq that better includes Iraq's various groupings. With the announcement of our last military contribution, Norway is one of the first countries to make concrete contributions to training and training operations in Iraq. The contribution lasts initially for one year, but we must be prepared for it to be demanding and long-lasting. Action against ISIL must be taken on a broad front. Military instruments are not enough. Iraq and the countries of the region must take the lead and the greatest promise in the long-standing fight against ISIL. They have a special responsibility to contribute to stability. At the same time, it is clear that they will not be able to do this task alone. An inclusive political process in Iraq is essential to counter further divisions between peoples. After a long and polarising period under former Prime Minister Maliki, the country has now received a government under Prime Minister Al-Abadi. However, the political picture remains inconceivable with the contrasts between Shia, Sunni and Kurds. In the coming period, it will be essential for political excluded groups to experience that they are being taken more seriously in a real dialogue with the authorities. Only an inclusive Iraqi state will be able to take care of its own security and strengthen democracy. In Syria, the conflict is now within its fourth year. More than ever, we need a political solution that can stop the humanitarian tragedy, counteract sectarian divisions and break the negative spiral where state institutions break down. Regional actors must agree on constructive solutions in Syria. The international community – in particular the members of the Security Council – must take responsibility and create a new momentum and process that can lead to peace. The government supports the work of the UN Special Mission Staffan de Mistura on a solution to the Syrian crisis. Norway will support actions targeting the underlying causes of conflicts both in Iraq and Syria, through long-term peace and reconciliation efforts. In order to strengthen the dialogue with Iraqi authorities, the government is proposing to increase our diplomatic presence both in Baghdad and Erbil. In neighbouring countries, we support measures that strengthen the ability of countries to address the challenges posed by refugee flows and the increased uncertainty. The complex security challenges in the region require long-term efforts and a broad range of instruments. It includes political, military and humanitarian efforts. We need long-term civil measures such as anti-terrorism efforts and measures to reduce the financial capacity and capacity of ISIL for radical ideological attraction. Iraq has on several occasions asked the international community to help fight ISIL. In Resolution 2170 of this year, the UN Security Council unanimously condemned their behaviour. In September, the government decided to send five staff officers to participate in the plan work of the International Coalition. It has provided us with a basis for assessing a military contribution in capacity building to Iraq. We've now followed that up. In view of the serious deterioration in the situation of ISIL, the government has decided to expand our efforts by providing a military contribution to the international coalition against ISIL in Iraq. The bodies of the Storting were consulted last week. The aim of the military contribution is to help improve the ability of Iraqi forces to respond to the threat posed by ISIL. Our contribution will be part of a coordinated international effort, where Iraq itself and neighbouring countries will play a crucial role. The contribution will be continuously assessed in view of its impact on overall efforts. Norway provides 120 personnel to operate capacity building of Iraqi forces in Erbil in Northern Iraq and in Baghdad respectively. We are now offering the contribution for one year, but must be open to consider extension if there is a need for it. Our soldiers are to train and train Iraqi forces. The overall strength contribution of the coalition is still being developed and developed in consultation with Iraqi authorities. Norwegian contributions require cooperation with our allies. It is assumed that Norwegian forces will not participate directly in combat actions. It is in line with current capacity-building plans in Iraq that are followed by other allies, and means that we do not place any strange restrictions on military participation. In line with international law, the forces will always have the opportunity to use power in self-defense. In Erbil, 50-60 Norwegian instructors from the Army will be part of a planned German-led training centre to train and train regular Kurdish-Iracian forces. The training will take place in consultation with the authorities of Baghdad. Norwegian defence has good experience in this type of mission and has solid competence in this area. The government will also provide Norwegian personnel with training and training of Iraqi security forces in the Baghdad region. The security forces concerned have a very important role to play in the defence of Baghdad, and their training is a high priority. Our special forces have considerable experience in the training of special police in Kabul and will be the most appropriate forces for this mission. Our special strength contribution will also be about 50–60 staff. Norway will participate in Iraq at the request of the Iraqi authorities, which provides an adequate basis for its participation in international law. Our contribution will be implemented in close cooperation with the authorities. Norway cooperates with the other contributing countries in order to clarify the status of its personnel, which is a prerequisite for sending Norwegian forces to Iraq. The security situation in Iraq is generally very demanding. The level of violence is high. At the same time, there are considerable differences between regions. The safety of our personnel is overall and will need to be assessed on an ongoing basis. A threat assessment of its own shall be carried out before the Norwegian forces are dispatched to the area. It is important that we ensure national control of contributions and that they are structured in a flexible way so that they can be adapted to the needs. The UN has described Iraq and Syria as humanitarian crises of the utmost seriousness. As in Syria, the humanitarian situation in parts of Iraq is precarious. More than 1.8 million people are internally displaced, and 5.2 million people, according to the UN, depend on humanitarian aid. In addition, there are 220,000 Syrian refugees in the Kurdish areas of Iraq. Increased humanitarian needs in recent months can be directly linked to the ISISIL armed offensive in Iraq. The international community must respond with rapid and effective humanitarian assistance. So far in 2014, the government has contributed 200 million. D humanitarian aid to Iraq. Norwegian funds are channelled through the UN, the International Red Cross and non-governmental organisations. In total, Norway contributes more than 1 billion in 2014. to deal with crises in Syria and Iraq and the consequences for neighbouring countries. 90 pst. by internally displaced persons in Iraq do not live in refugee camps. They live either in local host communities or in public buildings, such as schools. Many children have lost their school offer because they are displaced or because their local school cannot be used just because they live internally. In the Kurdish self-governing areas, school start-ups have been postponed this semester. We must avoid large parts of a generation losing their education offer in Iraq. Therefore, Norway provides support for education and for internally displaced persons to receive shelters other than schools. It is in line with the government's goal of contributing to the access to good quality education by 2017 to 1 million more children affected by war and conflict. Our support goes on to health, water and sanitation facilities, food aid and psychosocial support for a traumatised population. With winter just around the corner, it also hastens to give the internally displaced warmer shelter and clothes that protect against the cold. It is the Kurdish autonomous areas that have received most internally displaced persons. At the same time, we lack humanitarian access to those parts of Iraq that are controlled or under the influence of ISIL. The safety situation makes it dangerous or impossible for relief organisations to work in these areas. In the long term, the humanitarian situation for the civilian population, where Iraqi authorities do not have military and political control, will be most critical. The government emphasises that our military contribution should underpin the broad multi-track effort. The military contribution we have now decided is an integral part of a comprehensive Norwegian support in the fight against ISIL, where both political, humanitarian and military instruments complement each other. Our contributions have been adapted to the needs and requests of Iraq and the Allies. The importance of our national preparedness has been safeguarded. Participation in international operations may affect the threat to Norway. Our Joint Counter-Terrorism Centre, which is a collaboration between the PST and the E service, is closely following developments. The Centre believes that the threat of terrorism against Norway has increased over the current year. According to their analysis based on what has happened in other countries, it is likely that terrorist attacks can be threatened and attempted in Norway. The latest threat assessment by the Centre highlights the following aspects in relation to the threat posed by ISIL: ISIL has a relatively large and increasing number of ideological trailers in Norway. The action of police and other authorities against extreme Islamists can act as a motive for action in Norway. ISIL has issued a clear call to engage in terrorist attacks against all those supporting the US-led coalition. Norway’s military contribution may be used as a pretext for terrorism in Norway. ISIL has specifically called for attacks on military personnel and members of police, security and intelligence services. We saw an example of an ISIL-inspired attack on Parliament in Canada recently. However, the risk could be reduced by the application of effective vulnerability reduction measures. We cannot allow threats from terrorist organisations to dictate our security policy. Although short-term policy choices may increase the risk, the fight against ISIL is a long-term investment in our own security. Norway has a tradition of making military contributions when necessary. We have a responsibility and an obligation to take our share of the burden when it is required. Through our efforts, Norway shows that we are taking this very seriously. In Afghanistan, we have also shown that Norway takes responsibility. Over 13 years, Norway has contributed to its stabilisation and development. Following the attack on the United States on 11 September 2001, Norway has contributed significantly to the wide-ranging efforts in Afghanistan. We have contributed politically, humanitarianly, economically and militarily – through changing governments and with broad support in Stortinget. The main purpose of the engagement in Afghanistan was initially to combat Al Qaida and to prevent Afghanistan from remaining a haven for terrorist organisations. In recent years, our contribution has focused more on reconstruction and development, which is essential for the country to be able to take care of its own security. Afghanistan is no longer a haven for international terrorism. Progress since 2001 is significant in many areas. In recent years, Afghanistan itself has increasingly assumed responsibility for its own development, including in the area of security. This is important. However, major challenges remain in Afghanistan. On 5 June, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence gave a broad account of the Great Britain's development in Afghanistan and our efforts in the future, both civil and military. I will now take the opportunity to explain our further military contribution to Afghanistan. At the end of the new year, as is known, the NATO-led ISAF operation. At the same time, a new training and training operation, Resolute Support Mission is established. This operation will also be managed by NATO, while a number of countries outside NATO will contribute. It was a prerequisite for the new operation that Afghanistan was granted a legitimate government following the elections in April and June. It took time, but in September, the presidential candidates Ghana and Abdullah entered into a power distribution agreement. It opened an Afghan-American security agreement and a status agreement between Afghanistan and NATO that is now in place. The new status agreement does not allow offensive operations. Resolute Support Mission is clearly different from ISAF's stabilisation mandate, but continues some of ISAF's training tasks towards the Afghan forces. Now that the Afghan security forces have taken over the security responsibilities of the country, the Resolution Support Mission will have an important role in further developing Afghanistan's ability to ensure its own security. Resolute Support Mission is aimed at mentoring management and not tactical operations on the ground. Resolute Support Mission will be a minor force consisting of more than 12,000 military. The operation will initially have military presence in several regions of Afghanistan. Thereafter, efforts will gradually concentrate in Kabul with a focus on advice and training at the strategic level. The Government has decided to make a military contribution to NATO's new mission. The Norwegian strength contribution will be limited up to 75 persons and will mainly be stationed in the Kabul area. In comparison, the Norwegian contribution to the strength in Afghanistan was at the largest of approx. 650 persons in 2009 and ISAF was the largest in the EU. 140 000 staff. Norway’s main contribution for 2015 will be to continue the support to the Special Police Unit Crisis Response Unit in the Kabul area. This has been a long-term Norwegian priority, which has produced very good results. Crisis Response Unit has now become an important capacity to ensure safety throughout the Kabul area. In addition, Norway will contribute a smaller number of sanitary and logistic staff to the Kabul International Airport, as well as support for the training and advice of Afghan personnel in aerodrome operations at Bagram, 50 km north of Kabul. We will also offer a limited number of staff officers to the German-led training effort in Mazar-e Sharif in North Afghanistan. It is a prerequisite for our contribution that the security of our forces is ensured. As in Iraq, a thorough assessment of the safety situation will be carried out. Afghanistan is still not able to finance itself the structure needed to ensure its security. Since 2010, Norway has made an annual financial contribution to the security forces through established mechanisms. In line with previous decisions, the government aims at Norway contributing 150 million. kr annually for the years 2015-2017 for this purpose. The government is also aiming to continue the total civil assistance of about 750 million. kr for the years 2015-2017, as previously decided. Norway will stand by its aid commitments provided that the Afghan authorities comply with its reform obligations, not least by combating corruption and strengthening human rights in general and women’s rights in particular. Civil assistance primarily supports governance, education, rural development and humanitarian needs. Women's rights and the fight against corruption are horizontal priorities. A prerequisite both for peace and for an economically sustainable amount of security forces in the long term is an inclusive Afghan political solution involving the rebel groups and all social groups, including women and ethnic minorities. The aim must be for the Taliban and other insurgents to find their place in a democratic system through negotiations – with a constitutional framework and respect for human rights. Another prerequisite for economic sustainability and to avoid aid dependence is that the new Afghan Government implements in-depth reforms leading to growth and increased tax revenues. Norway shall host an international conference on women’s rights in Oslo on 23 November. There we will, among other things: discuss how the country can best maintain and further develop the progress achieved by Afghan women since 2001. In line with a decision taken in February, the government will set up a sample to carry out a comprehensive review of Norwegian efforts in Afghanistan between 2001 and 2014 and point to lessons for Norway’s future contribution to international operations. The committee will start its work as soon as possible after 1 January 2015. Our contributions in Afghanistan and Iraq illustrate some very key points: Norway’s security is affected by conditions far from our own neighbourhood. The threat from terrorist organizations is global. It is not an option to allow ISIL or other terrorist groups to establish themselves permanently with a strong organisation with the consequences it can have for the local population — and for our own security later on. A stable development in Afghanistan and Iraq is also about our own security and security. We must always carefully evaluate our contributions, but we cannot close our eyes to the atrocities, killings and instability that characterize many areas of the world. Military instruments will never be the only answer. Political stability and economic development, both in Afghanistan and in Iraq, are essential for achieving lasting peace and security. At the same time, we must be willing to use military instruments when necessary. As regards the fight against ISIL and the contribution to security in Afghanistan, this is necessary. As politicians, we make many small and big decisions. They affect the lives of the society we are set to serve. Some of the choices are more demanding than others. Sending Norwegian women and men into areas of war and danger is the most difficult. We do it because it's ultimately about the security of our everyday lives. Put security first and foremost in the fight against threats in our immediate vicinity. Today the threats are complex and often have their origins far away from Norwegian cities and villages. But such threats are among the greatest threats of our time. They can be challenging to see. They can be hard to understand. They're hard to fight. Without the joint effort of the world society, we can never deter or combat terrorism, which in hours and days moves from remote areas into the Norwegian everyday life. Acting is demanding, and it puts us to the test, but one thing is more dangerous, and it's not doing anything. Norway cannot close its eyes. Norway must contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e950	The President will now propose, pursuant to the second paragraph of Section 45 of Storting’s Rules of Procedure, that a brief comment round be opened, limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group and possibly a final statement from the Prime Minister. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e953	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his statement on Norwegian contributions to Iraq and Afghanistan. It's good that we get this review in the open hall. The government, with the support of a majority in the UK, has decided that Norway should contribute military personnel in international operations – a continuation of a new phase in our participation in Afghanistan and participation in a new engagement in Iraq. Such a decision is, as the Prime Minister has now said, among the most serious ones we take in politics. We're doing it against a backdrop of a serious situation in the region of which Iraq is part, and in Afghanistan, where we have more experience. The political, social and humanitarian challenges are enormous, the causes are complex and complex, and the solutions, if they exist, need to be developed by people and countries themselves in the region. We have seen and learned that in the core there is no definitive military response to these challenges. The answers must be political, and the international commitment, including the military, must have this in mind and aim. Does Norway have any co-responsibility, and do we have contributions that can make a difference? The working party believes that the answer is yes to both questions. Our security is also challenged, and we can make a difference. We have experience, opportunities and advantages in the humanitarian field. It needs to be continued through high efforts with particular care for neighbouring countries receiving millions of refugees, and support for the experienced organisations, Norwegian and international, who can reach the vulnerable in Syria, Iraq and other vulnerable areas. It is in Norwegian interest to mobilize it against the uplifting and devastating warfare that is growing out of chaos and collapse in Syria and Iraq. The promotion of the ISIL terrorist organisation is a threat to stability and state security in Iraq, and in a wider sense in the Great Middle East region and outside the region. The humanitarian suffering is almost unparalleled. We are insurgented by violations and sufferings that are inflicted on the civilian population. We sympathize with that struggle, among other things: the Kurds are perpetrators of assaults and crimes. The UN has asked the international community to increase support for the Iraqi Government in its efforts to combat ISIL and its affiliated organisations. The political contradictions in Iraq are inconceivable and deep – they also extend far beyond the borders of the country. This uncertainty and instability is itself a significant challenge. It says about the integrity of the Iraqi state. However, there can be no doubt that Iraq is now fighting for legitimate self-defense, and international law opens up for other states to support such efforts. We assume that the government, together with other allies, is following the situation on an ongoing basis, assesses the political and military situation, that this is in place and within the framework we can understand, and follows up on Norway's contribution. This could change in a short time. Our contribution must be to enable Iraqis to defend Iraq, not to be involved in offensive operations where, on the contrary, a person with such participation risks being fed up and working against his purpose. Therefore, a defined training and training assignment together with the allies is a sensible device. For more than ten years, we have assisted the elected authorities in Afghanistan. It's an effort we agree to evaluate to learn from. Our goal, together with NATO allies and partners, and with a clear UN mandate, was to prevent the country from being used as a base for international terrorism, to contribute to the transfer of security responsibilities to Afghan security forces and to assist Afghanistan through long-term development. Now the Afghans have held elections and implemented a shift – not without difficulties, but it has happened democratically and relatively peacefully. It's historic. Afghanistan and Afghans must now themselves be in the leadership of Afghanistan's further development. NATO's major ISAF operation is being phased out. The country still needs support, and we should be among many countries that provide it – for development, continued state building and training of its own security forces. Here we have strong and longed-for experience. Such assistance must be clearly anchored in up-to-date agreements in line with established international law. We support the continuation of the training mission of the Afghan Special Police in Kabul – an important part of the international community's contribution to the Afghans' own efforts to ensure their own security. I think it is right that we express deep recognition and respect for the women and men who are now to take on these demanding tasks, while remembering those who have paid the highest price for Norway in international operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e981	International terrorism and extremism have recently had a new and brutal face. ISIL's march into Iraq and Syria represents pure evil, where religious war itself is a goal. As our prime minister said during the demonstration outside the Storting this summer, "We see a war without rules with warriors without morals." Through brutal videos, there are widespread quotations across borders and continents. In Iraq, the defence and the Kurdish peshmerga have faced an inhuman and sometimes superior military opponent who does not scold any means to drive out, abuse and kill the local population. ISIL has thus acquired large land and natural resources and contributes to the preservation of the black economy. We elected people have a special responsibility to evaluate the instruments we have in the fight against these types of extremist movements. We need to evaluate arenas and instruments. The instruments must be humanitarian, military, anti-recruitment and anti-terrorist activities. Political Norway stands united in the process of delegitizing the ideology of ISIL. We agree to prevent the influx of foreign fighters into the region by preventing the emergence of hatred and intolerance in our communities. In the humanitarian field, the government was early out helping Iraqi civilians when ISIL was seriously on the rise in spring and summer. To date, Norway has contributed more than 1 billion. D humanitarian aid in Iraq and Syria. We continue to deal with humanitarian assistance for the millions who are fleeing the region and neighbouring countries like Jordan and Lebanon. The government quickly started to assess the basis for its military contribution. In August, a Hercule transport plane was made available, and we were among the first to send staff officers to the United States to contribute to the planning of possible contributions to the international coalition. A prerequisite for the military contribution was that there was consent to the use of power by the Iraqi Government. The government's decision to make 120 soldiers available to the International Coalition is in the Right's view well-considered, and it is correct. Through the training of Iraqi security forces in Erbil, Northern Iraq and Baghdad, we use our capabilities and capabilities to the best of Iraq. ISIL is currently an international threat to anyone who does not support it. We've seen that threat over time. We saw that when the alarm went into Oslo this summer, and we'll have to live with an uncertain threat picture also in the future. It shouldn't make us passive. As our Minister of Defence said last week's press conference: 'We cannot allow threats from terrorist organisations to dictate our policy'. Norway is a country that has committed itself throughout history to comply with international law. That's what makes us safe when crises strike. We depend on strengthening, not weakening, international law and the United Nations appeal for international action. We cannot afford to turn our backs on and isolate ourselves from the outside world. By providing Iraq with the support they need to repress ISIL, we will in the long term reduce the terrorist threat here at home. The emergence of ISIL is a result of the marginalisation of many suns experienced under the Al-Maliki government in Iraq. Another germ for the conflict is that the Syria conflict is not resolved, but has become an arena for rivalry between regional major powers in the Middle East. It is therefore important for Norway to support and encourage initiatives that mitigate the level of hatred and conflict between ethnic groups, religious communities and countries in the region. It is therefore a positive development that the new Iraqi government, led by Prime Minister Al-Abadi, now seems to be able to put in place a government that includes representatives of the entire Iraqi community — Kurds, moderate sunns and Shia. Just as the commitment we are now starting in Iraq, the Norwegian contribution to the ISAF operation and the humanitarian reconstruction work in Afghanistan has also marked our efforts as NATO countries. We've shown as a nation that when we join an international mission, we show that we're completing the race with our allies and with the Afghan people. Afghanistan is now moving into a new era. The involvement of the international community through ISAF ends, and it will be important in the final phase to give new Afghan leadership the best prerequisites for building the country further. In respect for those who have paid the highest price, our ten fallen soldiers, and those who have been injured in service, we are now completing our engagement, and we are going to do it in a dignified and sustainable way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1000	Security policy is global. Local changes and instability may have regional consequences, which in turn may evolve into global challenges. We are witnessing this today. Norway’s security is affected by conditions far away from our own neighbourhood, by actors not limited by national borders. The threat posed by terrorist organisations is global and generates situations that are not limited geographically or ideologically. The alliances of terrorism cross ideology and religious questions, and a common enemy is what very often promotes cooperation. We cannot allow ISIL or other terrorist groups to establish themselves permanently, with a strong organisation, with the consequences it can have for the local population and our own security at a later stage. Our own security and security depends on a stable development in Afghanistan, Syria and Iraq. The Progress Party is startled by the progress ISIL has made and the resources available to them. Never before have we seen such a terrifying terrorist organization with such high ambitions, and that actually seems to have the ability to carry out what they've set out to do. ISIL's territorial ambitions we saw when they took control of parts of the Anbar province early in 2013. ISIL controls or has influence over large areas with important and valuable resources, including oil, sold on the illicit market. In addition, ISIL is considered to be the world’s richest terrorist organisation, precisely because it controls both oil resources and refineries. Therefore, it is important that international efforts are made to stop turnover in order to take them into account also in relation to the economic foundation. It's very important. The international community also needs to take further action to stop the transfer of funds from donors to ISIL and to implement strict penalties against those who support this organisation financially. The attack on Mosul in June showed how strong ISIL is also military and how dangerous they are to Iraqi security. ISIL is currently strong in areas such as Fallujah, Ramadi, Haditha and Alghanim, and through its recent efforts they have strengthened their position in certain areas. Since ISIL moved into Iraq from Syria in the summer, we have witnessed monstrous and brutal acts that affect innocent people. We have seen, both through reports and through the media, that thousands of people have been killed. You can't as a nation – even if we're far away – sit and look at the developments we've seen in the region. ISIL, as a terrorist organisation, needs to be limited in a number of areas. I've been into economics. We need to look further at what is involved in the humanitarian work, which needs to be continued in order to help in the neighbourhood. In addition, we also have a responsibility to prevent recruitment to this organisation. It is important that we also take strict action on the part of Norway against those who leave and participate in these operations, while at the same time ensuring that people do not leave, among other things. Norway to participate in the areas of this organisation. The Progress Party supports government policy in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1023	Our time is witness to a tragic, armed conflict. It can demolish both Syria and the neighbouring country of Iraq. Elections have created an unimaginable humanitarian crisis situation. The number of fatalities is increasing. The civilian population's suffering is enormous. Millions of people are on the run. The challenges are greater than neighbouring countries can deal with. It is both right and necessary for the Prime Minister today to do well for the Storting on the challenges this raises about Norwegian contributions. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the good work he has done. World society cannot passively look at the tragedy without acting. We therefore advocate a massive international humanitarian aid effort. It's a moral duty. It alleviates suffering, but does not stop selection. In later times, the crisis has worsened. Frontwarts have flocked from many countries to join the extreme ISIL group. ISIL is so brutal that even the terrorist movement of Al Qaida has taken a distance from her. With great access to money, warriors and weapons, extremists have introduced a terror regime into a piece of Syria and a large area of Iraq. Those who think and believe differently are threatened and massacred. Muslims who are not a few are executed, Christian crucifixed, aliens beheaded. Stone on stone becomes a terrorist state built. As the Prime Minister pointed out, this is not just a problem for the population and for the region. The recruitment of extreme Islamists from other countries — including Western countries — creates an increased international terrorist threat. After the war service for ISIL, they can return to other countries. Behind the tragic developments in Syria, Iraq and several countries in the Middle East are decades of misrule under old authoritarian regimes. A lasting solution to the crisis requires long-term work and political reforms. Naudhelp and military contributions are not enough. But both are now necessary. Sacrifice must be helped, ISIL's advance must be stopped. The government in Iraq has asked for help to train its own forces, so they can stop ISIL. As the Prime Minister did well, Norway is to contribute well over a hundred military soldiers to training in two camps, one in Kurdish territory and one in the capital city, Baghdad. The security seems to be well preserved. The mandate does not include participation in combat actions. It is limited to one year. The mission may be extended if the Storting agrees. The contribution is designed to support its own defence and regional mobilisation against ISIL under Iraq. The exposure is clearly anchored in international law. The Christian People's Party supports the continuation of Afghanistan, for which the Prime Minister has done well. But in my brief intervention, I have now commented on the crisis in Iraq and Syria in particular. No one should believe that the fundamental challenges can be solved with ease, but if we and others refuse to contribute, ISIL can expand its regime of terror, its sufferings can be even worse, and the conflict can last even longer. The Christian People's Party will therefore support this contribution in Iraq. If people are to have a better future, we must both help stop ISIL and help help the victims of the conflict. We must all be clear that Norway assumes a great responsibility by contributing, but an even greater responsibility if we say no.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1046	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his presentation. The situation in Iraq and throughout the surrounding region is serious. War acts, cruel killings and great human suffering impress us all. Many millions of people are displaced, and 16 million people in the region are in need of emergency aid, according to the latest UN figures. The government now wants to send Norwegian soldiers to Iraq and Afghanistan. For the Central Party, it is necessary to distinguish between Norwegian military contributions in these two countries. In Afghanistan, Norway has participated through NATO for a number of years. Resolute Support Mission, where Norway is now asked to contribute, is a successor to the ISAF operation, where Norway has participated. It is natural for Norway, at the end of the ISAF, to contribute to the best possible provision of Afghanistan with its own security. NATO has concluded an agreement with the Afghan authorities which forms the legal basis for this operation. The central party therefore supports the sending of 75 soldiers to such an operation. However, the Central Party cannot support Norway sending 120 soldiers to Iraq. Sending Norwegian soldiers to Iraq, in our opinion, will not be the right way to go. Instead, Norway should step up its humanitarian efforts. That's where Norway can make a difference. We've never been a military force, but we've taken advantage of the humanitarian area and should instead send soldiers into the emergency side, but also in the circumstances of the refugees in the region. What is now happening in Iraq is happening with a turbulence that has built up in the years since the US entered Iraq militarily in 2003. What was supposed to be a short-term military operation would prove to be a long-term presence, without the political challenges either in the country or in the region being adequately addressed. The centre party is concerned about whether the kind of military contribution we have been given today can help strengthen ISIL instead of weakening it. When Western military forces increase their contributions on the ground in Iraq and are perceived as actively supporting a party in such a conflict, the risk of ignoring the clear religious and ethnic overtones of this conflict is enormous. Therefore, it is not surprising when Middle East expert Cecilie Hellestveit points out that Norway can paradoxically be interpreted on the Iranian side in an increasingly clear conflict between Shia-oriented Muslims and Sunni Muslims. ‘The idea that we can send soldiers into distant countries without giving political signals about who we support, that’s fantasy spin,’ says Hellestveit. Researcher Tormod Heier at the Defence College says to the class struggle: ‘Here we can risk falling into a long-term civil war, and I still have the pleasure of seeing what we want to achieve from political goals at the other end.’ That's a good question. The conflict we are facing in the region is, to the most extent, a political conflict. It also requires political initiatives, and Norway should be prepared to facilitate discussions that could reduce religious and political tensions in the area, rather than to engage with military personnel in Iraq. The centre party is no less concerned about the violence and suffering that we see in this region than other parties in this room. There is also no doubt that developments in Iraq are a threat to security and stability throughout the region. However, Norway has no long tradition of making military contributions without a mandate from the United Nations or when it is not part of a NATO operation. The Norwegian traditions are primarily about providing humanitarian aid, and we should do so to a far greater extent than today. Jan Egeland of Refugee Aid recently called for more efforts and new initiatives in order to be able to carry out relief work in this region. It is a task that is important for Norway to act. We can probably help save more lives and alleviate more suffering by going heavily into humanitarian efforts than by sending Norwegian soldiers to Iraq.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1070	I want to start by thanking the Prime Minister for a good account. So I want to thank the government for choosing to lift this into the hall, which I think is important because it's an important and serious debate. But I think basically that when we send Norwegian soldiers, sail if we're not going to send them directly into war situations, but in practice, we're still sending someone who's willing to sacrifice a lot for Norway, in Norwegian uniform, to do a job by decision in this room. Then I think it's important that people who do such an important job feel like they have a big deal behind them. I want to thank not only those who are willing to do that job, but also those who are willing to send some of their to do that job, because there are many who are at home and anxious for those who do an important job for Norway. The international political challenge is enormous, quite new and demanding, and when the international community fails to promise both human rights, peace, freedom of religion and all the rights for which we believe it is important to fight, it concerns us. This concerns us when the UN fails in Somalia and the flow of refugees also comes to Norway. It concerns us when terror and the mindset of terror also bring Norwegian boys and girls into that kind of mindset. And we have to have so much faith in our values that we're willing to fight for them. We can't leave to others to fight for the values that we think should apply to all people everywhere. The left is very positive that we are now strengthening the contribution in Afghanistan. We were in and out of a regime, and then it's important that you don't run off or leave those who are left in the hole. It is important to be patient when entering, and it is important that we bear a responsibility in Afghanistan that we must follow up on. But it also gives overtones to the commitment that it is now opening up in Iraq, because it is not that these things are being done quickly and easily. When we assume an international responsibility with others, we must be aware that it can take a long time. This may take a long time to turn around, and we need patience and support to our people in order to take the long fight. When we see ISIL's behaviour today, we see enormous atrocities, and it challenges us on both humanity and the values on which we build our societies. We've probably seen extreme genocide in history in the past of as great a and heavy a character, but there may also be something special and new about ISIL's behaviour that they don't hide it and push journalists and photographers away, but actually sail tells of assaults and atrocities they're behind. In the left, it is very important that there is a wide range of international initiatives – across regions, across religions and across sets of governance – that are now entering and contributing here today. And it is important that international law is respected when it comes to such a large international contribution. It is good that Norway focuses on humanitarian contributions, but when we are asked by others, we will also support the participation that is now, in the light of the broad initiative that is there. My challenge to the Prime Minister is that I think it's very clear to this hall what we're fighting against. My question to the Prime Minister is a little bit more about what we are fighting for. What do we think should come instead? How are we going to be able to lift the democratic forces? It is not that al-Assad is a good alternative in Syria, and we have to find out the democratic forces and how we are going to manage to lift them. It is not that everyone who fights against ISIL stands for values and democratic attitudes that we believe are important to promise. Our appeal to international engagement is that you're very clear about what you're fighting against, but you can't quite define who you're fighting for, and how to manage to bring forward an alternative set of governments in these countries, if you manage to succeed with the international initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1088	Let me first thank the Prime Minister for the presentation. SV asked for an open debate, and I'm glad we got it. This is not a debate on whether it is important and right to fight ISIL or not. All parties strongly agree on this. It's a debate about what kind of strategy will work. And that's where we don't agree. SV believes Norway has a responsibility to contribute to the fight against ISIL. It is because the emergence of ISIL has had such disastrous consequences for the civilian population in parts of Iraq and Syria. Our sympathy and solidarity lie with all the refugees, with the Kurds who defend Kobanê, and others who fight to protect their cities and villages from the advance of ISIL. However, today we will warn against the need to do something that leads us to do something that does not work. I had hoped that the Prime Minister would make a contribution that took seriously the uncertainty that many feel about the new Norwegian war contribution, and that she would honestly show the dilemmas that I am absolutely sure the government also sees. I think it was a bit of that. So let me point to a couple of these dilemmas. Firstly, the problem in Iraq is not only military, it is also political. There is a lack of trust between the Sunni Muslim population and the government in Baghdad that has enabled ISIL to gather so much support. Is there really a lack of training of the Iraqi army that makes you unable to stop ISIL, or can the answer equally be that there is a lack of loyalty and trust in a state that is not functioning and not representative? Americans have spent 11 years and billions of dollars training Iraqi forces. Perhaps there are not Norwegian instructors who need the Iraqi army now, but political solutions that create trust and cohesion. The second thing: the United States' behaviour in the Middle East in the last two decades is not the whole explanation of the collapse we see in the region, but it's part of it. The invasion of Iraq was a disaster, and the Western powers continue to change positions. In the past, it was about bombing both al-Assad and Iran, now the enemies of al-Assad and Iran are bombing. Maybe it's not Western military power that can solve this crisis. Might as well make things worse. We believe that there is a real danger that support for ISIL in the Sunni Muslim population is growing instead of weakening when Western soldiers and planes go to action. We remember what was said when Norway joined the war in Afghanistan. It was going to be a short war on terror. So far, it's been 13 years, and the Taliban is getting stronger. Have we learned, or are we now in danger of making the same mistakes again? Nine years after Norway left Iraq, and long after we should have pulled out of Afghanistan, we will now be dealing with soldiers in both countries. We think it's a mistake. None of us sit on the solution to the drama that unfolds in Iraq and Syria. It must not lure us into solutions that we do not believe in. We believe that real political changes in Iraq, which also benefit the Sunni Muslim population, are the key to turning the situation around there. However, we believe that Norway can also contribute more in a number of areas. We must strengthen humanitarian aid, and we must take responsibility for what is the greatest refugee disaster of our time. It is a paradox that the will of the Great Government to use military power now is so great, while the will of the Great Britain to accept refugees from the war in Syria is so small. I had hoped the Prime Minister would give new signals about Syrian refugees in his presentation today. That would have been a good occasion. It didn't use the government. We need to weaken ISIL economically through international cooperation to stop the flow of money to the terrorists. We must strike down on the vast recruitment of foreign fighters. We can do that in Norway too. We have to use our forces where Norway can make a difference. We must contribute to international cooperation in all these areas. SV believes that today's American-led military campaign is not such an international response. This isn't a choice between doing anything or doing nothing, it's a choice of what to do. Then we don't have to do things that are just as likely to make the situation worse, we have to do things that we know work. That is why our answer to the Prime Minister is no. This time we should not send Norwegian soldiers to Iraq.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1115	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for a good statement on a very serious issue. The decision taken by the Stortinget and the government will have major consequences. Norway participates in a war for all practical purposes. However, the Green Party supports sending Norwegian instructors to Iraq as part of this war. We do that under strong doubt and with heavy hearts, and there is no reason to hide that there is considerable disagreement within our party about this decision. For the Green Party, it is absolutely crucial to use all peaceful instruments before using violence. So there's no doubt that the solution that we're going in for now is a bad solution. There is a solution that can easily bring Norway into a new hegemony in another part of the world, there is a solution that can maintain uncertainty in the region and in our part of the world, and there is a solution that can contribute directly to increased terrorist threat at home in Norway. There is no doubt that Western policies and alliances in the area are also part of both the cause and the problem. It's obvious that we don't know enough about the end of the engagement that we're now starting up. Nevertheless, when the Green Party supports the action, it is because the good alternatives – diplomacy, humanitarian work, peacemaking – are obviously not enough alone. IS has terror as a method and ethnic and religious extermination as declared targets. IS explicitly does not respect human rights and not international law. IS threatens very many people's existence right now. Therefore, peace work, diplomacy and humanitarian action are as necessary as before in the ongoing work, but it is not enough to save those people who are now at risk of being undermined or destroyed. There's a war going on, the war that we all don't want to go on, and it's quite obvious that military instruments are necessary to stop and win that war. The only question is what role Norway should play. It also means that if we choose to participate only with humanitarian efforts, or if we choose to participate with military instructors, we are part of the military operation in progress, and the fundamental difference between purely humanitarian efforts and military instructor contributions is not present. We note that international efforts against IS are safe on the basis of international law. We are invited by Iraq to help. 50 countries participate, and although the Green Party would like to see an even clearer UN mandate, the UN has clearly called for participation and assistance. So we're at a point where we have to choose what we're afraid of: the dubious cost and uncertainty of actively participating in the fight against IS or the possible costs for civilians, regions and long-term security by not participating. I'm afraid we may be left with blood on our hands because of this measure and this participation. But I'm even more afraid that we'll be left with the blood of others on our hands, Iraqi, Kurdish and Syrian civilians, because we don't take the chance to participate. The assumption of Norwegian participation is obvious. It must be accompanied by an even stronger humanitarian effort, it must be accompanied by an even greater effort to take in refugees from the region of Norway, and it must be accompanied by a long-term political discussion in the Stortinge where we help each other to figure out what is to be the long-term objective and the long-term outcome of this conflict. It's about our commitment to contribute internationally, it's about our commitment to avoiding a new Rwanda or a new Srebrenica – it's the difficult choice we have to make, and therefore the Green Party supports this action.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1130	I want to start by thanking you for the contributions, which show that what the government has now done has had broad support in Stortinget. Of course, it is possible to make other assessments of what to contribute, but I am glad that there has been a great deal of support for what the government believes. I want to stress that what we are facing with ISIL is a different kind of terrorist organisation than what we have faced in many other situations. They're better equipped. They're more capable of fighting. They have much larger financial resources. So they're a tougher opponent. It is not possible for the Iraqi army to combat this alone without much more effort and support from others. If you do not get that support from the outside, you will probably have to look into the fact that ISIL would then stand, and perhaps establish the Islamic state they want, as a new safe haven for terrorist activities beyond. There is a lot we can do with humanitarian means to remedy suffering, but we cannot fight that kind of organisation by just humanitarian means. So I want to say that describing this as a struggle between Shia and Sunni is ISIL's narrative; that's the way they look at it. But it is important to remember which countries are now participating in the broad alliance, and which have been an important prerequisite for the government to move forward: both Shialand and Sunni countries in the Arab regions do. When Bahrain, Jordan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates are in the bombing business now to need ISIL back, this is not Shia and Sunni, this is actually Arab neighboring country that sees that also for the Sunni population is ISIL a threat. I find it difficult to say that we support the Kurds if we do not at the same time stress that President Barzani in Iraqi Kurdistan has asked for military capacity building to the peshmerga so that it can stop ISIL. One must not forget that ISIL was 20 km from Erbil. Without assistance from the Iraqi countries and the West, Erbil would probably fall, with enormous humanitarian consequences. Then it is important to see that humanitarian aid would help those who had fled afterwards, but the Kurdish areas would have been taken over by ISIL, with their distorted variant of what they stand for, and with the humanitarian disasters it would bring. It's never easy to send soldiers somewhere. These are always difficult choices. I think we have great guarantees that we will not end up with a perfect democracy in Iraq, even after ISIL has been turned back. But what has been important, and which is now being worked out, is a much broader understanding that there must be a community between Sunni and Shia, there must be a community between the Arabs and the Kurds in order to maintain an Iraq. It's also a prerequisite for what we're going into, that we're seeing a government that has a different, inclusive policy and a different position than what we've seen under the Al-Maliki regime. That is why it was also important for us to see that there was actually a new government before we promised further contributions into Iraq. There are always difficult choices we make, and I'm glad that the vast majority of the majority on the Storting have agreed with the election the government has made. I also want to stress that when we make that choice, we do it on behalf of individuals who contribute, who will be present. There are 120 Norwegian soldiers on the front line, and I think they're happy to have a big deal behind them in the work they're going to do in Iraq, and there's an even wider majority for the 75 who do it in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1143	The debate on the presentation is thus closed. The President will propose that the statement by the Prime Minister on Norwegian contributions to Iraq and Afghanistan be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1159	There will be some changes to the configured question list. In this context, the President refers to the electronic question list. The proposed amendments are proposed for approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 7, from the representative of Åsmund Gruver Aukrust to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be taken up by the representative Eigil Knutsen. Question 9, from the representative Fredric Holen Bjørdal to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, will, at the request of the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, be moved and answered to Question 1. Question 13, from the representative of Liv Signe Navarsete to the Minister for Justice and Security, has been transferred to the Minister for Oil and Energy, who is directing him. Question 14, from the representative, Kjersti Toppe, to the Minister for Oil and Energy, has been transferred to the Minister for Transport who is directing him. The question will be raised by the representative Gerd Eli Berge.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1178	My question to the Minister of Finance is: ‘The chapter on sustainability and sustainable development indicators is excluded from the 2015 national budget. Can the Council of State explain why this has been done, where the government is now responsible for sustainability, and how is the government going to deal with Norway’s work on sustainable development without measurable indicators?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1187	The representative Hansson is concerned with indicators. It is therefore tempting to conclude that all indicators point to the fact that the government has provided a good budget for the environment when the main criticism of the Green Party is the location of the various reviews in the budget paper. The sustainable development indicators were last updated by the Statistical Central Agency on 11 June this year. They have since been located on the Agency's websites, freely accessible to both the representative Hansson and everyone else. In the government's political platform, we underline that the government will base its policy on the goal of making the most efficient use of Community resources. This consideration has been central to the work of the State budget for 2015. Good use of society’s resources will enable future generations to meet their needs, including the precautionary principle. In 1987, the Brundtland Commission defined sustainable development as a development that meets today’s needs without destroying the opportunities for future generations to meet their needs. The objective of sustainable development can be reformed as a requirement for each generation to leave behind an overall wealth, including environmental and natural capital, so large that future generations can avoid a decline in the standard of living. This approach addresses, inter alia: the importance of maximising the use of our overall resources. In the long term, the growth capacity of the mainland economy is central to our income development. High production and revenue are best ensured over time through the efficient and sustainable use of all resources, including environmental and natural resources. Good income developments will also facilitate sustainable development. Effective resource use and sustainable development are a responsibility of the entire government, and responsibility is taken seriously. This recognition is the background to more comprehensive mention of good public resource use in the 2015 National Budget. Section 5.5 discusses the importance of managing natural resources and the environment. At the same time, many of the themes mentioned earlier in the chapter on sustainability are now covered in other chapters. The distribution of income is referred to in Chapter 2, sustainable government finances in Chapter 3.2. Climate policy, including the need for international cooperation, and emissions to air are referred to in Chapter 3.7 and the use of human resources in Chapter 5.4. The conversion of the 2015 National Budget is in line with international developments to focus on green growth, how to maintain natural capital while facilitating economic growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1208	I note that the Council of State does not respond to why the chapter has been removed, nor to where the government is now responsible for sustainability, and she bypasses the fact that a full chapter of 20 pages with a number of indicators has been removed. The reference to this can be found at the Statistical Central Bureau is interesting. If the Council of State believes that everything that is interesting about the state budget can be found on the websites of different bodies, a lot of work can be saved here at Stortinget. I would like to go further to recall that the Storing Communication A diverse and value-generating ownership, from the Solberg Government, which is now being treated, has the following sentence: The Government expects companies – i.e. state companies – to ‘report on their work on social responsibility, focusing on significant challenges, objectives and indicators of achievement’. How can the Council explain the logic that private, state-owned companies are required to report sustainability indicators, while the government itself is dropping such a report?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1215	I'm not quite sure I understood the criticism of that question. I answered the main question: we haven't failed to report, we've reported in a different way this year than last year, in line with recommendations internationally for a broader reporting. The question of who is responsible, I basically answered that the whole government is responsible for it, and it appears both through the budgetary documents and through the report to which Rasmus Hansson has just referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1220	I have no further questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1225	Then we go to question No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1232	My question to the Minister of Labour today is as follows: ‘Many workers working with people experience choices and targets of choice as a major work environment challenge. A 2009 Fafo study shows that 60 pst. by the members of child protection institutions, housing for people with developmental disabilities and in municipal child protection, they have been exposed to violence and/or tragedy in the last year. These numbers are stable high. What will the Council of State do to ensure that no job is selected on a daily basis, and how will it make the working environment safer in post-employment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1241	First, I want to thank you for the question, a question that is important to get enlightened and important to discuss. Let me first say that there are some professions that are more vulnerable than other professions. As the Fafo report points out, socionomists, protectors and child protection educators in particular are most at risk of violence/ threats at work, together with, among others. nurses, sentinels and police. Let me then remind you that so far this year the Labour Inspectorate has carried out 373 so-called action supervision in the health and social sector, where the theme has just been violence and threats of violence. The Labour Inspectorate continues this work and has given it a high priority, while also setting up a working group, together with the social partners, to look at what measures can be taken to strengthen efforts to prevent violence or threats of violence at work. I also want to reflect a little on the fact that employers are also very dependent on making good efforts to take the safety of employees seriously. I believe, as Minister of Labour, that all workers in Norway should feel safe when they go to work, when they are at work, and when they leave work. That's something we all have as a prerequisite that you have to have that proximity and that security. Then we also see, within, among other things. Nav, which is an area I know well, that evolution in terms of violence and threats has been increasing in recent times. There you take this seriously, and you do it in a number of other places where you are exposed to violence and threats. But here I think it is important to do some simple steps, and that is why I would also encourage employers to do some simple steps, such as: is that In those cases where it has been identified that this could be a risk, it is never done with just one employee, but with several employees you have good training and prevention related to the violence situation as part of the work environment, it would be important to have good premises designed with both alarms and escape routes if a situation of violence or a violent situation should arise, you have good arrangements that are easy to get access to with regard to the people who have been subjected to violence and threats, so that they get good follow-up in retrospect
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1265	I thank the Council of State for your answer. It is good to right that we share the view that employees should not feel threatened or be subjected to job selection. The Working Environment Act is one of our top peoples. It is the foundation of health, the environment and safety in the workplace, and a commitment to job security is a strong regulatory framework, which is the general rule. Furthermore, a fully-fledged working environment depends on work time arrangements that are sedentary and take care of the health, well-being and safety of workers. I think this security will be challenged when the government has now sent out the change to the Work Environment Act. Does the Council of State think that the weakening of labour law with more temporary additions and longer working days can provide a safer working environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1272	This government does not weaken the Working Environment Act; this government modernises the Working Environment Act to the working day that most people meet. Therefore, the government also retains the protection provisions of the Working Environment Act, retains the protection provisions adopted by the Stortinget in 2005 but provides for flexibility in the field of protection provisions. So it's actually so that no matter what is in a law, it doesn't have to lead to the achievement of results. We've seen that in relation to all those who deliberately break the law, those who engage in organized labour-life crime. Therefore, more coordinated supervision, more forward-looking supervision towards the industries where this happens often, is the solution to take the unprofessional, while at the same time rehending and protecting the serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1279	In the evening post of this week, we can read about seven child protection providers in the Norwegian market that, in total, from 2009 to 2013, had a surplus of 550 million. kr. It is not an unreasonable claim that part of this profit has been generated by saving on expenditure such as wages, pensions and staff. Child protection is not the Minister of Labour's responsibility, but they add it there. What makes the Council of State think that more privatisation of welfare services, as its government wishes, is a good idea when it comes to that. does it make it harder to control and ensure that the security of those added is in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1286	If this is what the representative refers to from the evening post, that it is because child protection has had to save, it is under the financial framework given by the red-green government. The red-green government must almost take responsibility for the financial framework that child protection has been given, both in the municipal sector and in the state, because they actually show years back. I think it's important to get rid of good, ideal forces and organizations into our welfare production. Take the Norwegian Women's Sanitation Association as an example, which has been one of the large, important ideal organisations that attended and created the first nurse training, which was part of the first hospitals. They've done a great job. I am proud to belong to a government that wants to make greater use of the ideal, voluntary organisations to join in and solve the welfare challenges of the future. It's good for the country, and it's good for the individual who needs well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1293	We then go back to question No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1300	My question is: ‘Vanylven municipality cheered to be placed in Employer Fee Zone 3 earlier this year, meaning tax relief. However, in the State budget, the government proposes to withdraw this tax advantage through reduced State transfers. This applies to a total of 31 municipalities, including the 3 municipalities that were placed in Zone 3 now in 2014. However, no corresponding cut is proposed for the 32 municipalities already in Zone 3. Can the Council of State explain this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1309	The differentiated employer’s fee is one of our most important district policy measures. The scheme is targeted by favouring the use of labour rather than other inputs, and by favouring the use of labour in districts rather than in central districts. Differentiated employer’s fee is of great importance for the framework conditions for business in District Norway. The scheme is not intended to be a district policy instrument for municipal employment. Proven neutrality has been a principle of the conversions in both 2004 and 2007. Local authorities increased in 2004 were compensated by increased framework grants. Municipalities that were reduced in 2007 received a corresponding reduction in the framework grant. The industry of the 31 municipalities that are now being reduced will benefit from this. As a result of the revision of the current system of differentiated employer charges, these 31 municipalities receive a total tax relief of an estimated 267 million. kr in 2015. This tax relief is due to the fact that the municipality that the employer is now paying a lower employer’s fee. These 31 municipalities have benefited from the framework grant corresponding to the proceeds of the tax relief in order to ensure that the conversion is neutral for the municipalities, as has been the practice in previous years. In other words, the individual municipality should be zero as an employer. Only municipalities are now part of the scheme – i.e. which receives a change in the charging zone – which is subject to a draw. Of course, municipalities that have not changed their charging zone have not been moved.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1320	It is true that this is an important district profile measure, and after good dialogue between the Council of State and a number of local authorities who are concerned about it, the communication from the municipalities is now that they feel cheated. They claim that at no time have they been given any indication that they would get something acute in addition to what is completely natural in terms of this change. Nor have they been given any hint in meeting the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. All the signals have been that a reduction in the employer’s fee would strengthen the finances of municipalities. For the Vanylven municipality, there's a move of 12.7 million. NOK 13,2 million for the West. kr and for Nesset 5.4 million. kr. If they were to go to zero, at least it's hard for them to see this. Can the Council of State understand that the municipalities have this perception from the process and the communication they have had, and will the Council of State do something for the new municipalities with regard to the device currently available?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1327	If the government were to follow the signals that are now coming from the representative Botten, it would be to change the practice of the previous, red-green, government. We follow the same practice as was the case in 2007. This means that for municipal employment, if the municipality receives a lower tax rate and is thus facilitated, it will be deducted from the framework grant. It was done in 2007, and of course it is now. The whole point of the differentiated employer rate is to facilitate private business in District Norway. It is not a measure to increase municipal employment. We follow the same practice that has been before.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1334	I hear what the council says, but he has not answered the question. I am concerned to know if the Council of State has intended to take on board that it has been poorly communicated to these municipalities, that they were actually penalised twice, because there are a lot of people who thought that this would go completely different in the budgetary process than it has done. The question remains: can the Council of State understand the municipalities that are hit by a kind of double tax gain here now, or is it that the Council of State will only run this as presented?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1346	One can always have a discussion about communication, but it would be alarming if the government had chosen a different practice from the one that was launched in 2007. We also made it clear in the municipal bill that there would be a draw in the framework grant corresponding to the relief on municipal employment. I also hear that there is a question here about double moves. That's not right either. The reality is that some municipalities were given discretionary means because of the increase in the employer rate in 2004. It was beauty that came through the county. The previous government announced in 2013 that county officials should take into account the distribution of discretion. This means that practices were introduced between 2007 and 2012, and we have now said that the county allocates the discretionary funds on the basis of its objective assessment. But we're following the practice that's been in the past. It is good for the industry in More and Romesdal, those who have received lower rates, but this is not a measure for increased municipal employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1359	I have the following questions for the Minister for Foreign Affairs – a question that has otherwise been here for a few weeks. I would like to say that for the sake of the Minutes. «In the evening post on 26 September we could read that only half of an allocation of 79.2 million. kronors for strengthening Somali central government have gone to pay Somali state employees, while the rest have gone to cover fees to private Norwegian consultants. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs consider this to be an appropriate use of Norwegian aid?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1368	I thank you for the question, and I also thank you for the patience. The representative refers to the Special Financing Facility, referred to as the SFF. It is a temporary financing mechanism for channelling international aid funds to Somali authorities. It was established in 2013, in response to a request from the President of Somalia to former development minister Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås. When the Stoltenberg II government initiated the mechanism, the aim was to strengthen the capacity of Somali authorities to carry out tasks entrusted to a government. It should increase the legitimacy of the public authorities and contribute to stability in the country. It is difficult to implement projects in Somalia after more than two decades of civil war and in a situation where large parts of the country are still in armed conflict. Government administration has very limited capacity and corruption is a major challenge. This type of project in a vulnerable country such as Somalia presents a non-negligible risk in terms of costs, implementation and possible corruption. The high project costs must be seen in this context. The cost level of this type of mechanism is highest in the start-up phase. This is due to the need to establish processes and build capacity necessary for the functioning of the mechanism. Of the funds allocated to the SFF, about half have been used to cover wage payments to Somali government employees. The other half is used for capacity building by local authorities and monitoring and control — about 25 pst. on each. The work on building local capacity and controlling the use of money has been carried out by Norwegian and international consultants. For SFF, it is recorded that the project has now become more cost-effective. This means that the proportion of funds transferred to Somali authorities will gradually increase and exceed what is paid for the work of consultants. That's absolutely necessary. As of July 2014, the World Bank took over the main part of its remuneration. The SFF is phased out at the same time as the fund becomes operational. It was important for me to get an acquisition from the World Bank, as such cost-intensive projects can be carried out in favour of a multinational framework, so this has now been changed. The government has therefore been actively working towards the World Bank in order for the SFF to be taken over by the MIF as early as possible. We will now assess how cooperation with the World Bank and the MIF will be operated in the future and how possible future support can be provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1383	I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the answer. Let me first point out that there is no disagreement that the SFF is important in order to strengthen the capacity of Somali authorities to carry out tasks of state power that contribute to increasing the legitimacy of the population. In fact, I think it's very important to back up and build the public sector in Somalia, because it's a significant way to make the state work. What I have reacted very strongly to is that half of the funding has gone to Norwegian private consultants, and so far also to foreign private consultants, and I believe that there is a use of aid that is unnecessary and perhaps unacceptable. I'm now recording that that proportion is falling, and it's joyous, but I'm going to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs if he wants to go into this and see if one should reduce the use of this type of consultant in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1394	As I said, I think that half of it has gone to consulting, and half of it has gone to capacity building again – even with the complexity you face in Somalia – is too much. That is why I initiated that the majority – the payroll part – of the SFF should be taken over by the World Bank's multi-stakeholder fund. When that happens, the need for the kind of consulting that was initially initiated will go down dramatically, for it is the World Bank, as a Bretton Woods organisation, that takes over the majority of responsibility. I would also like to add that at the start of the fund – I am familiar with it – it has been a bidding round for the different uses of organisations that have helped with the payments.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1401	I think it is very wise for the Minister of Foreign Affairs to have left part of this project to the World Bank's MIF. I think maybe multilateral organisations can do this in a very good way. That could be wise policy. The Good Government project also represents an essential and necessary part of the assistance to develop fragile states into robust nation states. I would like to stress that I fully agree with that. Letting the World Bank help here is a very good alternative, I think, to a blackout that private consultants represent, so until it has my full support from the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1406	I thank you for that, and I would like to add that the SFF, which was also the representative, has important results to point out: regular wage payments to 2000 Somali state employees and the development of national audit legislation, to which these consultants have contributed because they have a special competence in this area. Furthermore, a new pay and staffing system for government employees is established, from which I understand that these consultants have a background. There are rules for public acquisitions, processes and guidelines, mechanisms have been established in the Ministry of Finance to manage donor financing, internal control processes have been established in the central bank, new accounting system and processes to counter money laundering and terrorism, co-financing and risk management, and first state accounts have been prepared in Somalia for 24 years. After all, consultants have contributed to this important competence, often found in audit firms — and not necessarily in the ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1419	So I've allowed myself to ask another question. It was put on Wednesday before the session in the Nordic Council – just to explain why it is here now. ‘The Stoltenberg report proposed that ‘in countries and territories where the Nordic countries do not have embassies or consulates-general, countries may operate joint stations’. The proposal was broadly endorsed, and closer cooperation was confirmed in the Nordic Minister of Foreign Affairs meeting in March 2013. What is the status of embassy cooperation, and will the Minister for Foreign Affairs take the initiative to get ahead of work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1428	This is an important issue, which the representative addresses, and we discussed it in connection with the Nordic Council. I brought with me the question from the representative Nybakk, and I used it as a background to bring this up again with the other Nordic foreign ministers. So this question has definitely had its function, and the representative Nybakk and I have also discussed this earlier. There are long traditions of close cooperation between Nordic foreign services, both at capital level and locally between foreign stations. Formal and informal cooperation is well established in the administrative, consular, foreign and emergency fields. Nordic diplomats also consult each other on local political issues, analysis, political reporting and other issues of common interest. It's an important part of Nordic embassy cooperation. The representative’s questions relate to the follow-up to point 10 of the Stoltenberg report on enhanced cooperation between the Nordic foreign services. Since the report was submitted on 9 February 2009, contacts between the Nordic foreign services have been considerably strengthened. Nordic cooperation is regularly on the agenda when I meet my Nordic colleagues in different contexts, most recently initiated also by Norway during the Nordic Council's session in Stockholm, October 28th and 29th, last week. Ministry officials also meet regularly to discuss progress in ongoing and planned cooperation projects. Nordic contact groups have been established in a number of relevant areas, including: in areas such as ICT, security, the foreign field, consular services, emergency preparedness, property and human resources. At a time when external service expectations are increasing while budgets are under pressure, it is important that the Nordic countries cooperate as closely as possible to make the most of resources. In addition to cost-effectiveness, we see that closer Nordic cooperation can contribute to increased Nordic identity and visibility. I know that the representative – the former president of the Nordic Council – is concerned about this. In the case of joint Nordic co-location projects, which I also know the representative is concerned about, we have already come a long way. The joint Nordic embassy in Yangon, Myanmar, where the committee recently visited, is a good example of this. From what originally started as a limited cooperation between Norway and Denmark, we have today a common Norse Chancellor with all Nordic countries, except Iceland, represented. In Astana, Kazakhstan, Norway, Sweden and Finland share offices and some common functions. In Luanda, Angola, Norway and Sweden have recently moved into a common building, and in Kabul, Afghanistan, cooperation between Denmark and Norway is planned.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1445	It is correct that the matter was raised in Stockholm last week, where the head of the Stoltenberg report, Thorvald Stoltenberg, was also a guest speaker on Thursday morning. I would like to add that enhanced cooperation between the foreign services of individual Nordic countries is indeed important for several reasons. Of course, it's important to make use of our resources, but it's also to make the North visible in other parts of the world. Still more countries are looking towards the Nordic countries, looking towards the Nordic model, and the Nordic countries have almost become a trademark. In fact, the Nordic Council is very concerned about further development in this area of cooperation on foreign policy issues. Co-location is an important start, perhaps on more active embassies cooperation. I've also noticed Yangon and Berlin, and there may be plans in New York, but I don't know if the Foreign Minister will say anything about how he perceives that co-location also contributes to greater cooperation in other foreign areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1452	I think synergies have already been seen, especially where you are co-located, but I also believe with regard to the Stoltenberg report that the whole idea has changed since 2009, even where you are not co-located. As I said to the representative, we see that Nordic diplomats also consult more closely on local political issues and analyses. Political reporting is also shared, at least occasionally, and other issues of common interest, as well as what I mentioned about more operational technical aspects, such as ICT. In the longer term, we are working on plans for joint Nordic solutions in another five–six cities, including looking at opportunities in New York, which the representative had in mind, which would have been a very good mark on the Nordic region.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1457	I just want to follow up with a brief question: here there is cooperation in different areas, and there is also cooperation between the Nordic embassies on natural disasters, crisis situations, etc. Is it possible to imagine increased Nordic cooperation also in the field as regards assistance and development projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1462	We had a dinner for Nordic development ministers in Stockholm, where we had a broad discussion of the new sustainability goals and efforts in education. We were also wondering if it's such that we can have opportunities for common projects out there. There are issues related to this with constitutional responsibilities and how to get together in that case. This has to be thoroughly thought through, but if there is joint effort in a country, and cooperation can have more impact, it has to be possible to solve those challenges by establishing it as a project. We need to take a closer look at that, but I think it's a good and exciting idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1471	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘In the News of Day 18 on 7 October 2014, the Vice-Chairman and member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, Per Sandberg, said the following on questions of equipping the Kurds in Syria who are fighting against the IS with weapons: ‘But I have been open to it, that if Kurdish troops lack ammunition and weapons, at least Norway should not be the negative ones to assist them in strengthening the Kurdish forces.’ What is the foreign minister's view that one of the government parties' vice-presidents opens up to send arms to the Kurds in Syria?"
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1480	The civil war in Syria and the conflicts in Iraq have for a long time been dramatic and have made possible the emergence of organisations such as ISIL. We have also had the opportunity to discuss this thoroughly after the Prime Minister's statement, and there has been a discussion related to the spontaneous questioning session today. ISIL's brutal advance in Syria and Iraq is causing great suffering. Norway supports a broad commitment to the fight against ISIL, and there is also broad consensus in the Storting on how we should deal with this. The effort must be directed along several lines, both politically and militarily. In addition, humanitarian efforts are essential to assist the victims of ISIL and to support communities receiving large groups of displaced persons. Most of the Norwegian response to the crises in Syria and Iraq is just humanitarian. There we are among the top contributors; only this year we have contributed over 1 billion. D to Iraq and Syria and neighbouring countries. In view of the acute situation of ISIL's advance, the government has decided to expand our efforts by providing a military contribution to the international coalition against ISIL in Iraq, supporting the Peshmerga's ability to re-establish ISIL in Iraqi Kurdistan and supporting the Iraqi army, which needs that capacity building, starting from Baghdad. Iraq has asked the international community to help fight ISIL. The purpose of the military contribution is, as you know, to help improve the ability of Iraqi forces to respond to the threat posed by ISIL. Our contribution will be part of a coordinated international effort, where Iraq itself and neighbouring countries will play a crucial role. As regards the issue of arms and military equipment exports, the main political principle has been established since 1959. The Grand Duchy then adopted a declaration that Norway should not allow the sale of weapons and ammunition to areas where there is war, where war threatens, or to countries where there is civil war. This has since been taken into account in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ examination of applications for export of such equipment. The practice of the Decision has been presented in annual notices to the Stortinget since 1996. There has been a complete break-up of this line for Norwegian arms exports through changing governments. This government is also behind this principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1493	I thank you for your answer. There is broad consensus – as demonstrated by the Prime Minister’s statement – about the action Norway is going to take in the fight against IS in Iraq, both humanitarian and military advisers. I am pleased that the Minister of Foreign Affairs confirms that the government is still standing on the line that has been there since 1959 when it comes to arms exports into areas. But that means that the representative Sandberg – that is, not any representative, it is the Vice-Chairman of one of the government parties – with his statement that he opens the door to send weapons, as he does not express himself in line with the government's policy. Is that correctly understood?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1500	As I explained, there is a continuation from this government on the issue of export of weapons and military equipment, and this is based on the principle of 1959. But I would like to add that after the debate in News 18, which is referred to, a lot has happened, among other things. the government has initiated strong support for the Kurds – now by building military capacity in Iraqi Kurdistan. With broad support in Stortinget, we have now chosen to offer – together with Germany – military capacity building in Erbil, so that President Barzani and the Kurds are able to withstand further attacks by ISIL.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1507	I understand that in this case, the Foreign Minister, who usually makes himself quite clear and unambiguous, must be interpreted. What Sandberg's representative said was not the Kurds in Iraq, it was the Kurds in Syria, where, in addition to breaking the principle that we do not export weapons into conflict areas, we are on the edge of where we can contribute, even if we were to do so on the government platform. I interpret the Minister of Foreign Affairs so that we cannot assume that the representative Per Sandberg is speaking on behalf of the government when he speaks in the way he did here in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1512	I actually want to take the opportunity to give recognition to Per Sandberg's strong commitment to the Kurds' cause. I think many of us share that commitment, including the questioner. The government's policy is based on a 1959 decision. We do not export – or do not give – weapons to conflict areas. What we are doing, as we have now decided, with broad support in Stortinget, is that we are preparing for the Kurds by providing military capacity building in Iraq for the peshmerga, and where there is a specific request for this, so that international law is in place. I also think that is an indirect strengthening of the Kurds' struggle for their rights in Syria.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1523	‘Norway has agreed that participation in international operations must have a clear mandate under international law. In Dagsnytt 18 on 7 October 2014, Vice President Per Sandberg said the following in a debate on assistance to the Kurds in the fight against IS and the unclear situation of acts in Syria: «There is Norway soon alone, in relation to international law. I'm more concerned about using the people's rights here, I." What is the foreign minister's view of this position on international law?'
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1530	International law is a cornerstone of international cooperation. International law helps to create clarity and predictability of the behaviour of countries in the international arena. The government therefore places great emphasis on the development of and respect for international law. As a small country with an open economy, Norway is served by clear international rules. Basic Norwegian interests are enshrined in international law. Two good examples are the law of the sea and human rights. The seabed gives us, among other things. the right to resource in the sea and on the continental shelf. This is the basis for, inter alia, the Norwegian welfare community. International Conventions on Human Rights are gnawing important democratic values and setting limits on the actions of the State towards its citizens. We are actively using this international law in our foreign policy work. As regards the fight against ISIL, Norwegian contributions shall be made in the framework of international law. Our military contributions are limited to Iraq and will take place in consultation with Iraqi authorities. Our contribution comes in response to an Iraqi request for assistance. International law has limited value if it is not respected. It is therefore important that mechanisms are in place to help ensure that international law is observed and implemented in practice. In this area, international organisations, and in particular the UN, play an important role. A series of instruments, e.g.: the establishment of investigation mechanisms, complaint mechanisms or multilateral meetings and training in international law contribute to enhanced respect for international law. We also underline the importance of the International Court of Justice in The Hague. It is the government’s view that this court has an untapped potential and that several countries should be bound by the jurisdiction of the Court. The UN Charter and other rules of international law have fundamental principles to be respected in crises and armed conflict. Unfortunately, events in recent months in different parts of the world have made it necessary to remember this. The government has repeatedly highlighted the importance of respect for international law in the inter-state context.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1547	This was a very good defence of international law. When the Vice-Chairman of the Progress Party speaks – without the leader of the Progress Party having done so – he does well to represent the views of the Progress Party on international law. Should I understand that the Foreign Minister disagrees with the view of international law of the Progressive Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1554	I can explain the government's vision. It is based on the documents on which the government is based and on which there is broad agreement in the Grand Duchy, namely international law, the UN Pact, international human rights and what has been the basis for the emergence of both the Europe we see today and many democracies around the world. I feel that there is also broad support and agreement on these principles in the Progress Party. And I know that the Sandberg representative is concerned with human rights, democracy and the UN Pact, and in the round to which it is referred, it was such that the words that fell were linked to the discussion that was taking place on the mandate of international law in Syria.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1561	I now understand that Per Sandberg did not express himself in this matter on behalf of the Progress Party. At least it is clear from the Foreign Minister's answer, because the Foreign Minister says he has support in the Progress Party for his definition of how international law is to be managed by Norway. Should I then understand that this is not something that the Progress Party or the Government has in mind, and that the Minister for Foreign Affairs thus disagrees with the fact that Norway is soon alone in relation to the international law and our view here?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1566	I actually think this became a little wonderful discussion. Today, we have agreed, and Norway stands united, to support the fight against ISIL broadly, and there is a broad consensus on this. Trying now to create a debate about statements that I believe Per Sandberg thinks have been taken out of its context, I don't think is constructive. I can speak on behalf of the government and the government document that underlies, where international law is very central. This is a broad consensus in the government, and I also perceive that there is a broad consensus on that in the Stortinget. These statements were probably in a context where there was a discussion, where the United States and the UN Secretary-General were in and had comments about the international legal basis in Syria.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1575	This question, from the representative of Åsmund Aukrust to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is raised by Eigil Knutsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1578	I have the following questions for the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘In the summer, Vice-President of the Progress Party Per Sandberg said to the NRK: ‘What is dangerous is that Norway behaves in such an international way that we choose a party, without seeing the consequences. Take, for example, our contribution and engagement in Afghanistan.» Is it the government's position that Norway should not take an active position with the Taliban in Afghanistan or with the IS in Iraq, or does the Minister of Foreign Affairs disagree with the claim of the figures for the government parties and will continue a Norwegian line taking an active role in international policy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1587	I thank you for the question, and I don't think the answer is going to be very surprising for the representative Knutsen. ISISIL's ruthless use of violence and warfare is unacceptable and must be stopped. ISIL is a threat to Iraq, Syria, the region and also our own security. We have a responsibility to help prevent values and attitudes that terrorists represent from spreading. The leadership role and the greatest promise must be taken by Iraq and the countries of the region. At the same time, it is clear that they will not do this task alone. Iraq has asked the international community to help fight ISIL. The UN Security Council has condemned their behaviour and violations of human rights in a unanimous opinion. The Government has decided to extend Norway’s efforts by providing a military contribution to the international coalition against ISIL in Iraq. Norway provides 120 personnel to operate capacity building of Iraqi forces in Erbil in Northern Iraq and in Baghdad respectively. Following the attack on the United States on 11 September 2001, Norway has contributed significantly to the wide-ranging efforts in Afghanistan. We have contributed politically, humanitarianly, economically and militarily. This has had broad support through shifting governments and multiple magnifications. The main purpose of the engagement in Afghanistan was to defeat Al Qaida and prevent Afghanistan from remaining a haven for terrorist organisations. Afghanistan is no longer a platform for international terrorism. Progress since 2001 is significant in many areas. In recent years, Afghanistan itself has increasingly assumed responsibility for its own development, including in the area of security. This is important. Major challenges remain in Afghanistan. ISAF is now phased out, and the Afghan security forces are taking over security responsibilities in the country. However, Afghanistan will continue to need support from the international community. NATO will therefore establish a new operation, the Resolute Support Mission. This new operation differs from the mandate of ISAF, but continues some of the training tasks of ISAF. The Government has decided to make a military contribution to NATO's new mission. The Norwegian strength contribution will be limited up to 75 persons and will mainly be stationed in the Kabul area. I can assure the representative Knutsen that the government is taking responsibility for resolving difficult conflicts in international policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1608	I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the answer. This has been an eventful day. We have been told of a possible threat of terror against our country, and in addition, the Prime Minister has been here in the Storting and explained the government's desire to send resources to the fight against ISIL. The government has brought with it a broad majority of the Stortinget. Therefore, my question is whether the government believes that we should take into account possible terrorist threats in the exercise of our foreign policy, or whether Per Sandberg is alone in this analysis.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1617	The representative addresses an important issue, which was also addressed by the Prime Minister. We know that terrorist organisations and extremist organisations, like ISIL, are not just a local and regional threat. They are a global threat, and they must face global instruments. This summer, in the middle of the common holiday, we had to increase preparedness in our country because ISIL was a real threat to Norwegian security. Over time, there is only one thing that helps – that we go together globally and fight that kind of terrorist organisation, especially when countries in the area, in this case Iraq, even ask for it to be able to carry out such an operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1626	I do not feel that the Foreign Minister fully comments on my question about this analysis of his own terrorist threat and whether the government is making some analysis of the terrorist threat to our country when a sender sends contributions elsewhere in the world, or whether only Per Sandberg is doing these analyses.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1631	I tried to answer the question to the best of my ability. I believe that both the discussion after the Prime Minister's speeches today and what I have now explained show that this kind of international terrorist organisation, extremist organisations, like ISIL, cannot be taken lightly. It poses a threat to the whole region, but in its nature they are also a threat to countries outside the region, not least in a situation where we see thousands of foreign fighters – including those from the West – who travel into Syria and Iraq, and some of them return. The only way to combat that type of extremism is through a broad range of instruments – political, ideological, fighting against foreign fighters and military efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1640	‘The majority have repeatedly stated that the Norwegian Theatre and National Theatre are equal national scenes. This equality is important both for language and for competition in the field of performing arts. Despite the fact that the Norwegian Theatre came out of the quality evaluation of the Ministry of Culture, the government chooses to increase the distance in grants by approx. 2.5 million. krones. What are the grounds for this discrimination?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1647	The Norwegian Theatre and National Theatre are two very central and important theatres within Norwegian stage art. We need both the theatres, and we're going to help ensure that they have the best possible operating conditions. Grants shall be determined on the basis of policy priorities and plans in this area, the general budgetary situation, agreements concluded, the application submitted by the individual and any additional information. In each budgetary procedure, we assess the relevant circumstances of each institution. We have no objective to achieve a balance – that is not the objective. Equal treatment in this context does not necessarily mean equal grants to all. In addition, any comparison must take account of the fact that a level of grants has historical and practical explanations relating to different aspects of the institution itself. The Norwegian Theatre applied for funding for a new action in 2015. The measure was a four-year escalation plan calculated for a total of 21.7 million. kr, the aim of which was to build a nationwide tour activity in cooperation with regional theatres. It is an objective of this government to strengthen the regions, but I would rather help to strengthen regional theatres throughout the country, as I do in the 2015 budget, by proposing strengthening the grants to the Bragetheatret, Carte Blanche, the Source, Rogaland Theatre and Theater Inland. For several years, the National Theatre has applied for funds to strengthen its international activities. The theatre has passed through, among others: The Ibsen Festival establishes a significant international platform and works continuously to engage businesses and foundations in the international activities of the theatre. On the basis of an overall assessment, I chose to give priority to strengthening the international activities of the National Theatre in the financial year 2015. I note that the red-green budgetary practices in the eight years of their power do not depart from my budgetary practices. For example, in 2011, they chose: to increase the grant to the National Theatre by 6.8 million. NOK, while the Norwegian Theatre grant was increased by 5 million. kr. In 2012, the Norwegian Theatre grant increased by 7 million. kr, while the National Theatre grant increased by 5 million. kr. I could draw up more examples, but this shows that each budgetary request has to be considered separately. This premise is very central to me, and after what I can see, it was also central to the red-green government. With regard to the evaluations of our major music and stage art institutions, these are an important tool for us to assess artistic quality and good use of resources in our institutions. Of course, we also want the evaluations to contribute to a positive development for the institutions. The evaluations do not aim to reward good institutions or to punish them less favourably. It would hardly serve the purpose, and it would also create a very difficult situation for future evaluations.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1666	I thank you for your answer. On the way, I'm following the answer. However, I choose to be concerned about and ask why the government in most of the regulations in the cultural budget has used 2.2 pst. growth for operation, while at the National Theatre it has added an increase of 3.3 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1673	As I said, the National Theatre grant is proposed to increase by 7 million. SEK in 2015 to a total of 188 million. NOK and a proposal for an increase of 2 million has been submitted. kr to strengthen the international effort. That was part of the application. We have evaluated the different applications individually on the basis of the individual facts and the information submitted. Based on that, we have found that it is important to highlight the international effort of the National Theatre, and that is the basis for the proposal to increase their support.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1678	I thank you for your answer. In the total and decreasing grant for new Norwegian actions, the grant to the Norwegian Theatre is clearly made clear. I just want to ask you in conclusion whether this is a political downsizing by the government in terms of our language.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1683	No, it's definitely not. I can reassure the representative of Haukeland Liadal that the Riksteatret actually has a substantial part of its annual portfolio in Nynorsk. I feel reasonably confident that the practices that have been before will also be carried out in the years that are coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1688	Question 9 has been answered earlier. We go to question 10.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1698	I allow myself to ask the Minister of Justice and Security the following questions: ‘For a long time, there has been a desire to move the temporary reception of transit at Refstad in Oslo, among others. This is due to the fact that it is easily exposed to the drug environment in the city, thereby creating insecurity for residents and the community. At the beginning of September 2013, the Ministry of Justice and Security informed the Ministry of the decision to move within three years, but this year the Ministry has stated that they do not have plans to move. When does the Council of State intend the temporary reception of transit to be moved?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1707	Let me first thank you for the question. As the questioner is aware, asylum seekers have a statutory right to an individual's accommodation offer registered as asylum seekers, and it is up to the state to ensure this. In the initial phase of an asylum case, applicants shall inter alia: are recorded and interviewed, therefore there is a need for geographical proximity to the Foreign Office of the Police and the Directorate of Foreign Affairs. To solve these problems, the UDI has an arrival transit located at Refstad. In the autumn, the UDI assessed the receipt of Refstad’s suitability as a destination for transit, following a request from the Ministry of Justice and Defence. The Directorate shall have, inter alia: addressing challenges related to the location of the centre, as there have been problems with unauthorised access to reception, crime in and around reception. A number of measures have been taken to address these undesirable events. There have been fences set up, staffed in the reception, access control, and police have had several targeted actions at reception. Afterwards, there have been fewer problems. The UDI and the police will continue to cooperate actively to ensure that the transit of arrival does not contribute negatively to the local environment. Following an assessment of different conditions related to Refstad, the UDI recommends that the reception be continued as a transit of arrival. The considerations of capacity and not least the proximity of the UDI and the Foreign Affairs Department of the Police are key elements of that assessment. I am busy working actively to counter crime in and around reception, and expect this to happen in the future as well. The UDI is responsible for the operation of asylum recipients and shall keep under constant review how best to organise the system. This includes elements related to crime prevention and reception location. So at this point, there is no plan to move the transit from the premises at Refstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1718	I thank you for your answer. I would like to stress that it is not just about problems inside and around the reception. Many of the arguments for moving it are also about the fact that many of the asylum seekers who come to this reception – where all but children come – are at risk of being recruited to drug settings operating at Akerselva and Greenland, and we see that hundreds of those who are being taken for drug sales are asylum seekers or asylum seekers who are being rejected. It's about the whole situation when they get to Oslo -- what they're exposed to by influence versus if the reception had been somewhere else. There was a good deal out in Bærum earlier, with a 30-minute drive, before it was moved to Refstad, so that the argument on the road has to be weighed up against whether it is a suitable place in view of the future of asylum seekers in Norway. I want to ask you this because it is temporary, as it has been called all the way now: does the Council of State answer mean that there is no longer a temporary place in Refstad?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1727	The average residence time of an asylum seeker in Refstad is between four and ten days, that is the usual residence time. Then, as the questioner, I am very concerned that one should contribute to the fact that it does not lead to persons who are on asylum reception being recruited into criminal environments, of course. A new agreement has recently been concluded on the operation of the consignee of transit which has a duration of four years, with the possibility of renewal for two years. That means that the first perspective we now have is that it should be there at least in the next four years. So I think one also has to take over that if one were not to use Refstad as a transit recipient, it is likely that UDI would still use it as an asylum recipient. Then there is a question of whether the challenges that the questioner addresses in his question would be even greater than the situation is now. The challenge, then, is that we need this centre-specific, simply to have effective asylum treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1734	I believe that that location is not suitable for either one or the other type of reception, but that perhaps especially those who are newcomers here are particularly vulnerable to that type of influences. There are some of those who are refused, or who realize that they are being rejected quickly, who have a greater risk of disappearing into the amount of illegal residence in Oslo at the time of the refusal when the reception is here than if it had been located a bit outside the city. I believe that the concern for the living environment, for the future of asylum seekers in Norway – the impact they have – should outweigh PU’s and UDI’s driving path, and that the reasons I mention should weigh more heavily. All political parties in Oslo, as far as I know – and in particular the Progress Party in Oslo – have run very hard on the fact that this reception should not be in Oslo, and especially not on the eastern edge of Oslo, where we have many such institutions. I would like to ask the Council of State: does not the parties in Oslo's view count for the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1743	The government is concerned that we should have an effective asylum chain. It is then important that we facilitate the effective processing of asylum applications that come in. The short distance between UDI, PU and the recipient of transit is essential to be as effective as one should be. It's always the way that we take into account different inputs that come into a process. Here, however, it is UDI who is responsible for ensuring that we have this offer in place. They have assessed the location and the challenges and opportunities that lie there and have clearly concluded that that location is preferable to other alternatives, especially if one assumes that one should be close to the processing units. Then there will always be views on where a transit reception is to be located, whether it is in Oslo, in Bærum or elsewhere. There are conditions that are always included in a process, but which the representative himself is involved in, these relationships need to be balanced against each other, and that is also done in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1763	This question lapses, as the questioner is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1770	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Justice and Security: ‘In June 2013, on a proposal from the Labour Party, the size decided to strengthen children’s homes and make the use of children’s homes compulsory. An aggregate increase decided to make the use of children’s homes compulsory for children under 16 years of age and to strengthen their capacity. When will the decision be implemented and how has the decision been taken into account in the draft budget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1779	Let me first thank you for a question about a very important topic. I suppose the questioner refers to a decision taken in the Stortinget in June 2014, not in 2013, and the answer is based on that. Preventing and combating violence and sexual abuse against children is a high priority of the government. The state’s children’s home is established to improve the care of children under the age of 16 and adults with developmental disabilities who are suspected of being subjected to violence or sexual assault. The main objective of the establishment of children’s housing is to strengthen the legal certainty of children, to provide evidence for use in legal proceedings, to conduct medical examinations and to provide assistance and support to children. Most child questionings are being conducted today at the State Children's House. An evaluation of the State Children’s House in 2012, which included the first seven children’s homes, showed that in 2011 69 pst. by hearings held at children’s homes. With an increase in the number of children’s homes to ten, the proportion of court hearings carried out at children’s homes has also increased, and in 2013, for example, there was an increase in the number of children’s homes. all court hearings in the Oslo Police District at the Children's House. Both in Troms and in the South-Trøndelag police districts almost all hearings are conducted in the children's homes. In those cases where the judges do not conduct the hearings at the children’s houses, the main argument turns out to be a long journey. Under the red-green government in 2011, the budget of children’s homes was included in the framework funding scheme for police districts where children’s homes are located. The funds are not earmarked, but it is shown in the allocated framework from the Police Directorate to the police districts which amount is intended for children’s homes. The allocation to children's homes for 2014 is 76.6 million. kr, which is a continuation of the level for 2013. A need for further strengthening will be considered in the context of the budgetary process in each police district where children’s homes are located and will be carried out when needs are identified. The Ministry of Justice and Security is working on a legislative proposal on changes to the Criminal Procedures Act — the questioning of particularly vulnerable persons in criminal matters — and a new regulation in this area, which the representative is familiar with. The aim is that the legislative changes and the new regulation will come into force before summer 2015. The question of compulsory use of the State Children's House will be addressed in the legislative proposal. An important issue with regard to child questioning is the capacity of the police. The Directorate of Police has been given a clear mandate by the Ministry of Justice and Defence to give priority to child questioning, and the first is that the average duration of proceedings shall not exceed 40 days by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1794	I thank you for the answer, and the Council of State has quite rightly stated that it is 2014 that I should have shown myself to. Despite the fact that a lot of children are being questioned in children's homes, we have some examples that they won't. In my own state, Telemark, and in Finnmark, this has been a much debated matter lately. The background to the Workers' Party's proposal was because we want to strengthen children's legal security – something that all the parties on the Stortinget were all about. When it comes to the argument about travel, studies show that those who thought it was a long way to go are not the children – they are parents, the police or other actors. As I see it, I am pleased with the decision we made and look forward to it being implemented. But I wonder why the government has reduced the level of ambition when it comes to waiting times. We are of course some that there is too long waiting time when it is due to children. Now we see in the budget that ambition is 30 days, even if the law says 14 days. What's the reason for that, I'm wondering.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1805	That's not right. Of course, the ambition is still that we should deal with the legal requirement. There's no doubt that that's the starting point. The problem is that statistics went in the wrong direction a year ago. There was an increasing waiting time in most police districts, and the average waiting time for each day became less and less acceptable. That is why I have been very clear to the Directorate of Police that this should be given priority. This has led the Police Directorate to re-prioritise resources in the police districts to ensure that child interrogation is given priority. For example, the average waiting time in Oslo police district has now fallen from 37 to 27 days, which is a pretty big boost. More resources are now being used to get up to date on these issues. But to ensure that we reach the 14-day deadline, we have to have a realistic phasing-out plan, so that the focus of the police is not dampened. So the purpose of this 40-day deadline by 31 December of this year, which is going down to 30 days before summer, is simply the opposite of having low ambitions. We're going to have high ambitions, but we're going to achieve the goals we set.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1812	I am very pleased with what the Minister of Justice says to be clear to the Directorate of Police. My last question is really about the budget. The last two budgets for the Stoltenberg II government gave very clear priority to the children's houses. It also appeared during the budgetary priorities. So I'm wondering what is the basis for removing children's homes from the justice budget priorities, and why it's not clear in the budget what's going to go to children's homes, as it's done in the last two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1819	There's no change in this. The increases that have occurred in the past have been linked to the establishment of new children’s homes. It has not been established in 2014. The capacity and economy of children’s homes is not what is considered critical to reaching the 14-day deadline. Nor is it what is critical to have child questioning carried out today. The status of children's homes is that we actually have the capacity that is needed. Then we have to constantly assess whether there are changes in this respect. The most important thing now is to get the police to give priority to this, and to get a new regulation and legislation in place, so that we simplify and improve the possibilities for questioning at the children's homes. I am absolutely convinced that the overall pressure in this room to ensure that we succeed in this area is a good contribution to our success. It has not been on resources – neither in this government nor in the previous government – in the case of children’s homes. The reason why this looks different is that new children’s homes have not been established in 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1832	This question, from the representative of Liv Signe Navarsete to the Minister of Justice and Defence, has been transferred to the Minister of Oil and Energy, who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1835	I would like to ask the following question, which is about the flooding that has gone on lately: ‘The last few days, we have seen that floods once again have caused major damage in several municipalities. Municipalities that initially have a difficult economy are confused and are uncertain about how to make the extra costs. Will the government see to it that funds are placed on the state budget, e.g. to a new fund, so that the municipalities and the municipalities involved are quick and unbureaucratic to secure the financial support they need to build up communities after flooding and other natural disasters?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1842	I would like to thank Mr Navarsete for addressing this issue, which is very important and too many very demanding questions. Over the last few years, we have seen that, unfortunately, several serious flood situations have occurred, not only in the West, but also in other parts of the country. The floods in the West are now taking place recently, including: in the county representative Navarsete represents, shows us that the forces of nature that we harvest in a normal situation can become destructive and do great damage. The municipalities that the representative Navarsete points to have suffered considerable material damage this time, which has given and will present major challenges to municipalities in many areas. In addition, we have a dimension outside the economics, that many have lost their houses. Of course, it has an economic impact, but it has far greater consequences than that. I myself have been in Odda and in Flåm and seen the great natural damage that had happened there, and I talked to the people who were standing in the middle of this. That, of course, made a strong impression. Of course, when the damage is caused by the extent to which they have become this time, it is absolutely necessary that the state contribute. That is why the Prime Minister has also invited the rapporteurs in the relevant municipalities to a meeting here in Oslo during November in order to better understand the challenges facing them. I believe that it is too early now to go into a discussion about how to follow up these specific questions, and about how to set up any appropriations, and so on. whether a fund solution is the right way to address it. We have just – a week ago – been in a situation where the focus in the first phase must necessarily be to save lives, and then to start working as quickly as possible to avoid material damage getting worse than they had already been, i.e. getting emergency measures in place. Now the NVE continues to work to reduce the damage, and NVE is now also working to identify the other material damage that has occurred. We are now beginning to plan how to build in the long term an infrastructure that will make these societies more robust in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1859	I thank you for the answer, which unfortunately was not as positive as I had hoped – after reading in the media that representatives of the government actually speak positively on this question. But maybe it goes into a trend, because after the fire in Lærdal, both prime minister and state councillors were visiting and promising that Lærdal would get extra funds. In the letter of 23 May, it was said that Sogn and Fjordane would increase their frame by 5 million. kr in the State budget for 2015. That's not how it was. And with the vague answer I now get from the Council of State, one might also fear that one in this case will do the same thing: a visitor, one comes with participating and fine words, but then there will be nothing afterwards. Does the government think that the government has given Lærdal the municipality respect for the management of the fire, and when will the government allow the three remaining millions – who are still standing – of the promise?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1866	I must ask for the respect of both the President and the representative that this is something that is relatively far from the constitutional responsibility that is mine. I would like to say that I am very impressed by the efforts made by local forces in the municipalities that the representative has included in his main question, and that really shows respect for that. Then I want to say that the state has been in place from the very first moment: the police, the NVE, the civil defence, the Railway Agency – a large number of state agencies have been involved in the work from the situation developed. The NVE has been in place permanently from the beginning and is still in place in these flooded areas. In total, as far as I remember, 18 municipalities are affected, and the NVE is in place in the most affected municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1873	I thank you for your answer again. Norway is a country with major geographical and topographical challenges, larger than in most other countries. The lake path, the mountain falls down, and eleven sweeps along both the house and home in it would go to the sea. And now, when we see that the climate change we have seen is not transitory, but perhaps increasing in strength, does the Council of State not see that one is more likely than before – perhaps hoping that it was transitory, what one saw – to have permanent solutions that would enable municipalities and others to solve the challenges quickly? In fact, many communities will depend on it to be able to live around people, especially around fjords and mountains, even in the coming hundred years. What would the Council of State do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1880	I fully agree with the representative of Navarsete that we need to be better at resilienting society for more weather – just more weather – in the future. Then I was clear – I tried at least – in my initial answer that with the damage we are now seeing, it is necessary that the state contributes. The representative Navarsete even talked about topography, and we know that topography is not equal all over the country, and that the West is a region that has challenging topography. There is no doubt that the situation in the West necessitates an increase in State aid to the affected municipalities. From my side, we will focus on repairing existing fuselages, but it is enough that we must already be able to conclude that there will also be a need to establish new fuselages in the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1891	This question, from the representative Kjersti Toppe to the Minister for Oil and Energy, has been transferred to the Minister for Transport who is directing him. The question will be raised by the representative Gerd Eli Berge
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1896	‘Newly parts of the Bergensbana have been washed away. The train track that runs along Vosso became the frame of a big fire, and the track is closed for an indefinite period of time as of 30 October. According to the Hordaland newspaper there are several places so washed under the rails that one has to fill with new masses. It is not the first time that Bergensbana is shut down because of race or other natural events. How does the Council of State assess the safety of passengers on Bergensbana, and will the government grant exceptional means of maintenance and racial protection on Bergensbana after the flood?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1903	First, thank you for the question. Both safety and accessibility are important for the government when we talk about infrastructure in general and – in this case – the railways in particular. The railway system works in a long-term, systematic and targeted manner to maintain and improve safety throughout the Norwegian network. The identification of risk conditions for floods and breeds is an important part of this, and in the event of flood warnings, the railway works always assess whether or not tracks have to be closed. One cooperates with the Meteorological Institute with several measurement stations to monitor precipitation, and data from these measuring stations are used within different preparedness levels. There are different responses at different security levels, and when one gets red, which is the strongest, it means that one closes the path in order to avoid trains running into the race. This means that one has a step by step level of safety, but also a high level of safety when needed, on Bergensbanen and other routes, and it is precisely to ensure the safety of passengers. This system works well, and it makes me have good confidence in the overall level of safety. In connection with the concrete flood, the Bergensbanen was closed before the flood reached a critical level. At 4:00 a.m. on Monday morning, November 3, Bergensbanen was again open to traffic between Voss and Dale, after a total of 25 major machines and over 50 men had worked since Sunday to get the track ready for Monday morning. The cost of this work is estimated at approximately 6 million. kr. The flood-proofing of this route against new large floods will require more extensive measures in the form of better protection of river slopes and flood protection measures, which the Railway Agency has so far estimated at around 50 million. kr. The Railway Agency expects this work to be carried out in 2015 and payments will be made in 2015 and 2016. The government has put in place a process to follow up the costs of flood damage in the West, so this is what it will do, and it is natural that the extra costs of the railway are dealt with in this context. Let me say at the same time that some of the reasons why the railway often gets extra hard hit by floods is that the maintenance has been too bad over a long time. Had a hat better control on taps, etc. – which makes the water get a little better away – had gladly escaped some of the damage that occurs. Having a large flood, it's quite overwhelming, even for good culverts. In the last few years, the maintenance drivage on the railway has increased by nearly 1 billion. kr per year. It shows that the railway works have not had the means they need to do continuous maintenance and renewal on the railway. In the 2015 budget, the government has proposed a significant commitment to this effect, which means that, together with efficiency improvement measures, one could also stop growth in the maintenance set-aside. But there is still a job to start picking up neglected maintenance from previous years, and we also need to do that in the years that come.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1918	Yes, we see that climate change is helping to make such events more frequent, and that events are becoming more extensive and dramatic than before. It is therefore important to anticipate and, as far as possible, prevent this from happening again. Could the Council of State perhaps go a little further in terms of what the government will do to reduce the risk of this happening and reduce the impact of such events?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1923	Just because climate change will happen, and regardless of how much they are man-made or natural, we know that we're in a period where you have a little wilder weather than you're used to, you have more rainfall, and it creates challenges for many, not only in houses and homes, but also for our infrastructure. It is then important that one ensures that one has infrastructure that is capable of avoiding rainfall as much as possible. Making sure that one has good bridges that are maintained and that they have sufficient height above the river is one grip. It usually requires large investments, but maintaining them can be done relatively quickly, and not necessarily at the same high cost. Making sure that taps and other things are open, free from vegetation, free from old waste, so that water flows faster, is also important. What you see is that when the stabbing cracks – no matter how boring it sounds – get tight, the water starts to find somewhere else and starts digging away the masses below where you expect them to be masses, and make the tracks more unstable.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1928	I thank you for your answer. The railway maintenance run is large, as the Council of State itself has said. An estimate of the maintenance run in the current year shows a lag of about 10 years. 18 B.C.E. kr. It is therefore important that the planned maintenance is implemented and that this work will be reinforced. Will the repair of this stretch, i.e. along Vosso and the track that is there, go beyond other projects on Bergensbana?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1935	As I mentioned in the introductory reply, we now have a process going on on how to replace the damage that has occurred due to floods. The Prime Minister has started it, the departments follow up in their areas to meet needs, and then we have to get back to appropriations. But there is no doubt that the general commitment to the maintenance and renewal of the railway will be strongly strengthened in the coming year, if the government budget is adopted. In 2009, it was set at barely one billion, or more exactly about 900 million. kr, for renewal of the railway. For 2015, the proposal is SEK 1.9 billion. So it's going to be $0.9 billion to $1.9 billion. kr. There is evidence of a bet that will be much more maintenance and much more renewal than has been the trend in the past. We also know that this will come as an extra measure. My ambition is to replace it separately, but here we also have to see it in context with which other projects were in any case planned on that particular distance.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1942	Question 15 is from the representative Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes to the Minister of Knowledge Torbjørn Røe Isaksen. The President cannot see that Knag Fylkesnes is present in the Chamber, and we go to question 16.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1949	‘The commitment to continuing education and training shall continue in the budget for next year. The introduction of masters in teacher training from 2017 has been announced. It will mean a sharp increase in the number of students, and will challenge the demand for quality further. Higher education in particular faces major changes and challenges in teacher training as a result. At the same time, there is no evidence of institutional follow-up in the State budget. How will the Council of State ensure that the teachers will be able to do this great task?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1956	One of the main government projects is increasing school quality. We have just presented the Teacher Lift – A broad strategy for how we will achieve this. The strategy requires more of teacher training. In addition to better basic training, teacher training should contribute even more to continuing training. In order to contribute to the success of teacher training, we already put 50 million in the 2014 budget. to universities and higher education institutions in order to invest in the building of skills in the long term. The money has continued in the draft budget for 2015. These are initial investments in addition to the concrete financing of each further training. Five-year master's programmes cost more than four-year Bachelor's programmes. It costs you to have the students in an additional year, and it costs more with the master's task and more individual follow-up. It also costs to raise the level from Bachelor to Master. This is due in particular to the fact that the requirements for those who are required to teach at a master's degree are higher than those for higher education at a bachelor's level. A greater proportion of the professional staff in master's training must have first competence, i.e.: multiple must be first-reader/first-amanuensis or dosent/professor. These are priorities that this government will do. In order to help trainees to qualify their professional staff for the new tasks, the Government is continuing a direct action on this, namely the National Research School for Teacher Training, NAFOL. It was planned to have been stepped down, but this government prioritized to continue the bet. The research school can offer a broader range of research training than each institution has the opportunity to do alone. Teacher training is announced that the conversion to masters will take place from the autumn of 2017, that the government intends to do so. They have three years to prepare the transition. National advice on teacher training has supported the transition to masters. Many teacher training courses already offer masters and teacher training, for which the transition will not be so great. The government has also announced that it will present a major report on the structure of higher education in the spring of 2015. The starting point for work is that the sector is too fragmented, with too many small and vulnerable environments. The aim of the work is the provision of high-quality studies, anchored in sound professional environments, and a reasonable level of cost-effectiveness. The aim is not to save money on its own, but that economies of scale can release resources that can go to professional activities in the form of better and more education and research. I think that the quality of teacher training will make a lot of sense on those changes. We in the government have already invested heavily in the teachers and in the school in our first two budgets. In order to follow the strategy, the government will return to the Stortinget with proposals for further escalation also in future budgets. In particular, this will be linked to the introduction of new master programmes, which we aim for from the autumn of 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1973	I thank you for your answer. I think it is good for the government to continue the measures taken last year, as the Council of State explained. I also think it is good that there is an alerting of an escalation around this in the time that is coming. At the same time, we should be aware that what's now happening in this year's budget is that with all the pluses, all the minuses and sums up, the colleges get 52.5 million. kr less, universities receive 71,5 million. kr less. Money is important here, because this is about how universities and colleges should be able to use their space of action to facilitate these studies, while continuing their post-graduate education. Building up competence is very important, and what I'm asking about is how the Council of State can be sure that the institutions can do this, with the budgets that are now being set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1982	The university and higher education sectors have a real growth rate of approx. 2.2 pst. It's for the entire university and higher education sector. That's a number that stands out pretty well, compared to the previous years. So it's not like all institutions have had a real growth, but most institutions have had it. Universities include: targeted actions, e.g.: to support world-leading environments. There is a pot to be distributed to university buildings; there is money for scientific equipment; there is a great research effort. In the case of higher education, there is a targeted focus on scholarship holders for vocational training, a new commitment – a permanent scheme – to equipment for, among others. nursing and engineering training courses, which are valid for the higher education institutions. I can't comment on the figures for Marianne Aasen, but it's funny that so much real growth in the sector is going to lead to the institutions getting the most weakened economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1991	I think the Council of State gave a very good answer to it itself, because the additions to which it was referred are things that have nothing to do with the education of teachers, and that not necessarily a college anywhere in the country in and separately benefit directly from its budget. Instead, they get cut because they take an efficiency step, and they also get cut because they have to introduce self-payment for foreign students from outside the EEA territory. It is the reality of those in the institutions who are to plan for the reforms that are to come and which, as the Council of State itself points to, are to be achieved at the same time as there is a great deal of structural uncertainty and which it is claimed to bring economies of scale. I think it is demanding and wonder if the Council of State agrees – that it is demanding to do that kind of conversion work, bet on new projects, while having a tight economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e1996	Firstly, I think it's an incorrect description of the UH sector in general to say that you have a demanding economy. I do not think that is right, but of course you have to give priority. As I have also emphasised, this year's draft budget for 2015 is a good budget for the UH sector. It is a very good budget for research, which also benefits all these institutions. Then the answer, when we say we're going to aim for a master's degree from 2017, is that of course it'll cost more, there's no doubt about it. In the process of stepping up this process, it will also be necessary to assess each year when the funds needed to improve skills are needed in order to obtain a longer course of study, in order to equip the institutions to do so. For example: They have a further 50 million. kr, which entered the budget this year, and which has now been continued, was a clear and clear direct strengthening, enabling the institutions to deliver the historic continuing training promise that the government has set in motion.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e2007	‘A few weeks ago, the government launched the ‘Teacher Lift — At the Science School Team’ strategy. What concrete action in the strategy will provide teachers with better time to support each student in achieving their goals as early as the next school year?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e2014	I would like to thank you for the question and just a reminder that the strategy is available online. So it's a good idea to read the strategy for everyone who's interested in this, including big business representatives. Good teachers are essential for a good school, and teachers must have both a high level of professional competence and a broad range of pedagogical and vocational competences. Good teachers are clear leaders who are concerned with learning processes and who adapt training to the needs of different students. It requires the teacher to have time for planning, teaching, assessment and time to create good relationships with the students. The government is concerned that teachers will have enough time for these core tasks. The 2009 Time Use Committee report shows that teachers spend too much time on tasks that are not directly related to education. We expect that several of the measures in the Teachers’ Lift — At the level of the knowledge school can contribute to a more efficient use of time. It is important to stress that there are many factors affecting time use in schools and that a broad approach to the challenges needs to be adopted. Documentation and reporting requirements are one element. At the same time, it is important to remember that part of the school reporting and documentation is an important part of the basis for the follow-up of individual students and that this should ensure central rights. Examples include the reporting of absences, documentation related to the assessment of students and documentation related to the right of students to special education. The background, assumptions and management of pupils in school are also factors relevant to time use. Better use of time in school is not only about removing tasks, but also about using the time available, in a good and effective way and creating good systems for this in each municipality and in each school. Time spent in classrooms is clearly related to the teacher's ability and ability to lead the class and the learning work. At the same time, a good learning environment is the basis for preventing trouble and unrest in the classroom. Good school and class management contributes to this. We are therefore betting through the Teacher's Promise on National Rector's Training, we are continuing the youth initiative where class management is an important element, we want newly trained teachers to receive relevant and systematic guidance and follow-up, and that experienced teachers will have the skills they need to become good class leaders and skilled educators and professionals. Structure and good understanding of the rules are highlighted by the Time Use Committee as important prerequisites for appropriate time use. At the same time, it points to the need for a simpler regulation that is made more accessible to the individual teacher. We have also commissioned the Education Directorate to investigate and prepare proposals for regulatory changes in assessment and absence. The Directorate shall, inter alia: propose amendments to make legislation for assessment more transparent and transparent. In particular, assessment of changes has been requested which could free up time for teachers and/or school management. Decisions relevant to the time use of teachers are taken at different levels. Therefore, the government is working to identify time thieves at all levels of the education system. The project ‘Documentation and reporting requirements in the school sector’, directed by the Ministry of Knowledge and the KS, reviews the overall national reporting and documentation requirements in the school sector. The review shall include reporting at both teacher, school principal and school owner levels. The final report will be available in less than a very long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e2027	There's a lot of good in the government's teacher's promise. But the problem is that it's getting too tight, and there's nothing about time use. We agree on the continuing education and training promise, and now let us set aside both credits and quality requirements, and rather concentrate on those who are in the classroom right now – they are well on their way in to 8:00 today, Wednesday. I asked the Council of State for more time, measures that are absent from the Teacher Plan. Studies show that teachers want to spend more time, together with students, on education and adapted training. At the same time, we are also receiving signals from the municipalities about an even more pressing local economy, where it is cut in teacher's annual work, which also has implications for the time use of teachers. I ask again, in order to be more precise: what concrete efforts in the Teacher's Lift with an impact on the next financial year will give teachers who are now in the classroom better time to be teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e2034	Now I answered that. I mentioned the measures contained in the Teacher's Lift, but perhaps the representative would then be interested to hear a little about the other work we are doing. Then it might be good to bring some of the history here. In 2009, we received the so-called Kolle Grondahl Committee. In 2009, there were some others who were in government. We don't have to spend time talking about the past, but it's interesting to note that in 2009, the proportion of teachers who said that school life had become more bureaucratic had gone up. There's good reason to think it's still going up in 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013, maybe even on its way into this year. That's why we get a report before Christmas this year that should go through concretely and identify time thieves, with a view to removing them. The Ministry of Local Affairs has launched a similar survey for the whole public sector. There are also a number of measures dealing with the school sector. So then it's probably like that had there been a list of all these measures when we got into government, measures that were just to cross and remove, we would have done it, but we also had to do the mapping job once more, unfortunately, because it took some time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e2043	I know that there's been a sample of the time thieves in school, but I'm surprised that the Council of State hasn't given this any place in the Teacher's Lift. It's actually not mentioned in a single word, despite the fact that the teachers have this as one of their most important demands for them to do a better job. When we had the teaching conflict in the Sandefjord school up in the Questionnaire, the Council of State replied that he would not intervene and direct the municipalities in these kinds of cases, although we know that there are several examples of local forms fields. Recently, in the throne debate, the Council of State said that he would not provide a concrete measure for reducing the form field. What I would like to ask is: What do the Council of State think is the most effective way of debureaucraticising the school?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e2050	First, if you think that time spent in school is like business forms, you're wrong. There is a big difference between running a shop and teaching Norwegian students — taking into account each student, documenting assessment practices, having a student like this. has difficulty in reading and writing, and needs special instruction, and the systems to be introduced. A lot of it's also time thieves, but it's something other than running the store. Putting a measure and saying 30 pst. fewer forms – well, it could probably be obtained, for example. by saying that 30 pst. Fewer will be given individual decisions on special education — it will be a bad idea alongside the measures that may be the most important, namely class management and organisation at school and work on it. Then we are also totally dependent on going through all the key documentation requirements, all the key reporting obligations, and then balancing consideration for each other. I also want to say that this government is now following up a team around the teacher, for example. by strengthening the health care services with 400 additional health oyster posts this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e2061	‘Today, 1000 professionals do not meet the skills requirements for permanent employment. In five years' time, we'll need another 2,000 vocational teachers. In the «Teacher'slift» on page 10, the government writes: «The dropout is particularly high in the vocational education and training programmes» and states that «This is a serious problem». In addition, the strategy does not mention professional subjects and professionals are not mentioned at all. How does the Council of State feel that this negligeeing of vocational teachers is in line with the promises to strengthen the professions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e2073	Let me first say that it's very nice to have a lot of questions about the teacher's vow – On the team for the knowledge school, but it also gives an opportunity to say that it's not a strategy for absolutely everything to do in school. Let me just do one obvious example. We have 4,400 kindergarten teachers who should have worked in kindergarten, which is not there. They are in a different strategy: our quality strategy for kindergartens. We are working on a time thief work, which is also not mentioned in the Teacher's Lift. Teacher training and structural work is also not fully mentioned in the Teacher's Lift – On the team for the knowledge school, because we do more than what it says. That being said, it is important that vocational teachers have pedagogical education, because the effect of the difference between teachers with and without approved teacher training is greater for advanced and advanced subjects and skills. It is true that thousands of vocational teachers work in high school without approved teacher training. About half of these are already in the process of qualifying education. According to the Training Act § 10-8, the school owner has “the responsibility to have the right and necessary competence in the firm”. Several county municipalities have concluded agreements with educational institutions on flexible teacher training for unqualified — or non-qualified — professionals. It is not right that professional teachers should be given priority. New up-to-date rules have been laid down for vocational education and training aimed at improving the quality of education and training. Vocational teachers are recruited from a group other than primary and preparatory teachers. They often have years of professional experience and have both family and financial obligations. We want to be sure that the measures we are taking help recruit more good vocational teachers and that several of those already in the profession will receive good continuing training. Professional teachers – this part – are not dealt with in concrete terms in the Teacher's Lift, because we believe that general measures aimed at teachers throughout the initial training will not hit this group well enough. That is why we are working on the recruitment and qualification challenge in a separate process to follow up the professional level and report. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. In order to recruit more professionals, it is important that we show that we take this challenge seriously, by offering opportunities for professional development in schools as well. Many vocational teachers will experience special challenges in their professional activities. At the same time as being qualified educators, they must have competence in the profession to which the students are going. There are often few teachers teaching in the same programme subject, and the possibility of learning from colleagues is therefore limited. We have therefore focused on continuing training measures for vocational teachers. One example is hospitation, a system with very good feedback from the evaluation and with which many professionals have positive experience. In 2015 we have also granted 8 million. to establish professional networks between schools and businesses, with a view to achieving the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e2088	It is clear that the Teacher Lift is not a strategy to mention absolutely everything, but there are many other things that are mentioned. Mathematics is mentioned 28 times, real science is the main focus, professionals are not mentioned, professional is mentioned once. If you're going to talk about this elsewhere, the question is, where? We're facilitating the state budget, and in the state budget, the government's only new initiative is to follow up the Vocational Training Plan 8 million. to professional networks, as mentioned by the Council of State. I'm not sure if the Minister of Knowledge is aware of that, but the government is spending less money in the professional field until next year than you do this year. According to the Ministry's own response to the Storting, the sum of additions and reductions in the professional field is a net cut of more than 12 million. kr. If you also include the cuts in scholarships, which affect the students – and I assume that half of the department is a professional student – the cut will be over 200 million. kr. The question is: if there is a net cut in the State budget in the professional field [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e2097	The President is asking you to respect the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e2100	Firstly, it is in any budget that some measures are phased out, and some measures are coming. There are some measures that are being phased out until next year, and there are measures such as: projects going on or projects within a framework. That's why that's $12 million. kr nominally less. That being said, the budget this year is a very strong boost for the professions. In the current year's budget, we had an increase in the apprenticeship grant, a incentive scheme for apprentice companies to continue next year, etc. But then we haven't said that we're going to be able to meet all our commitments in the first budget, we've been going to sit with the bulk of the population for four years. The professional lift is an important boost. We are in the process of following up Report. St. 20, and there's going to be more stuff to Stortinget about it. It will also be financed when actions are implemented in the budgets of the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e2109	We're happy to get things to Stortinget about the profession, because it's been missing. As far as this budget is concerned, the Council of State itself says that it is smaller in the professional field – well, it's not a promise, it's cut. Both the Prime Minister and the Council of State themselves have said that one of the major challenges we face is the lack of skilled workers. It is actually pointing towards increased investment in the professional sector. Let me make it clear again: Cut is not equal to increased bet. State councils may be able to draw inspiration from the Workers' Party's Alternative State Budget, where we spend money on increasing apprenticeship grants, up-to-date equipment on advanced and targeted continuing vocational education and training measures. The government can do more and should come up with more stuff for Stortinget. In the context of the roll-out message On the right track, the parties put themselves behind a series of measures that the Council of State and the Government can follow up and simply implement. When will the Minister present concrete measures to the Stortinget which take the professional professions more seriously than the State budget does?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e2116	The statistics that interest me the most are the statistics on apprenticeship places, and it shows that this year there are more apprenticeship places, there are more apprentices getting space than there were, for example. the previous government set. This means that the numbers are going in the right direction, and I think that this government increased the apprentice grant – for the first time since 2009. It may have contributed in a positive direction. There are certainly many other things that also contribute, but it may have contributed in a positive direction. Then we have said that we should follow up all parts of Meldning. St. 20, with one exception, and that's that we're not in order to get a general right to start, for example. the engineering study with only professional subjects and diplomas, we are against that. Apart from that, we are working on following up every single point that has been agreed upon in Stortinget, and that we are strong followers of, and that constitutes our professional promise. These matters will come to Stortinget on an ongoing basis, but several of them will be followed up this year, for example. hospitation arrangements. Last year we followed up with apprentice grants, stimulation grants, and there's going to be more in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e2123	Then we go back to question 15, from the representative Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes to the minister of knowledge. The President asks that the questioners be present in the Chamber when the questions come up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e2132	I'm sorry, President! ‘In order to ensure a high quality of school education, it is essential that the content of the subjects is based on knowledge-based professional assessments. What such professional judgements or technical advice are the basis for the government’s decision to amend the training law, so that Christianity is given greater emphasis in the RLE field?’ [[K]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e2141	It is a shame not to lock the door when you arrive too late at Stortinget. We'll all be happy for that. We have recently sent a proposal on changes in the RLE subject on the consultation round. Two amendments are proposed. First of all, we propose to introduce a provision on the use of time in the curriculum in the subject, which states that about half of the teaching time is to be used for the objectives of competence related to Christian knowledge. Secondly, we suggest changing the name of the subject from RLE to KRLE, to put it simply. We do not propose any other changes to the subject. The objectives of competence, i.e. the content of the subject, remain unchanged. The background to the proposal is that the government, supported by a broad majority of the Stortinget, wants Christianity to be more focused on religious and life views than it is today. That's because Christianity has a special position in Norwegian history and tradition. The importance of Christianity and the Christian cultural heritage indicate that Christian knowledge is given a greater place in the field than other religions and views of life. So it is a political decision. I would also like to point out that the proposal on time-use will contribute to similar practices between schools in the allocation of time-use among individual religions. The last study we have on this, which dates from 2000 – on time use in the CRL, which was the name of the subject at the time – showed that the time spent on Christianity varied a lot. 9 pst. by the teachers, they said they used 80 pst. or more on Christianity, while 6 pst. stated that they used 30 pst. or less. Well half of the teachers used between 45 and 65 pst. of the time of Christianity. On average, the teachers used 55 pst. of the teaching time of Christianity. The study is the background to the fact that between 2005 and 2008 we had a provision in the curriculum that 55 pst. of the teaching period was to be applied to Christian knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e2152	I note that the Minister acknowledges that this is not, in fact, a professional assessment; it is a purely political assessment that is behind the fact that a rather increasing part of teaching Christianity in what was previously the RLE subject. It means that it goes beyond other parts of the subject, one has to reduce the introductions to other religions, to important issues like ethics, togetherness, sexuality, etc. So my next question to the minister is, when one now has seen a demand that about half of the education be done within Christianity, what other part of the subject is that the minister thinks one should reduce?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e2159	Firstly, the goals of competence in RLE provide great opportunities to see ethical issues across different religions and philosophies, and in that way also include Christianity and see Christianity in relation to other aspects of life. That's the one. The second is that it would be very strange if we were to go in and have detailed opinions on how Norwegian teachers do their job, so we say that about half the time in the KRLE field is to be spent on Christian competence goals. That's a much more moderate requirement than the 55 pst requirement. which existed from 2005 to 2008, for three years. Of course, we assume that the teachers manage this here based on their professional judgement in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e2164	It's just that this is detail management. One says that one must teach Christianity for about half the time. Otherwise, the subject is guided by competence objectives. Then it's been up to the teachers how to control these skills. But what comes new now, politically governed by agreement with the Christian People's Party, is that one demands that about half the time be spent on Christianity. It is not surprising that one calls it Christianity, and so religion, as if Christianity is not a religion – and there are some other funny things about that subject. My last question in this round – this is going to be a discussion in the future – is: How will the Minister verify that a fixture is about half the time for teaching Christianity?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e2173	As I said, we have confidence that this is well managed by the teachers and the schools, and we have no plans to introduce any new control regimes or new control system to check this. We expect, as in other areas, teachers to take on the political democratically agreed framework that is, and within that space they manage their teaching in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e2178	Then the ordinary question mark is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-05.ana.ud711e2191	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. It does not appear that anyone is asking for the word before the meeting is cancelled.
