ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e26	Two permit applications are available: on the leave of the representative Ulf Leirstein on days 5 and 6 March to attend the European Parliament in Brussels from the Group of the Progressive Alliance on the Permit of the Representative Kenneth Svendsen from 6 March to 9 March in order to take part, on behalf of the Presidency, in a conference in Minneapolis On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the county of Nordland: Dagfinn Henrik OlsenFor Østfold County: Kjell Håvard Jensen
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e59	Kjell Håvard Jensen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e71	On Monday the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Jan Tore Sanner, Elisabeth Aspaker and Robert Eriksson will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The first main question is from the representative, Ingrid Heggø.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e78	My question goes to the Minister for Fisheries. The coastal action and the fight to secure the fish that the people's property has reached Oslo this week. The panic must now have captured the Right, which boasts that they have made proposals in the 2012 Universal Service Survey. We could read this in the online version of Dagbladet today. Right Hill-Jensen points out that we red-green were loud against this proposal, and that we voted it down. The Right forgets to say in this context that the proposal was based on a softening of universal service – that is to say, contrary to what people demand, namely that the fish is the property of the people and will be delivered in the agreed communities. When I hear the announcements from the Minister for Fisheries, it is close to asking: Is the whole coast wrong? The Minister also stated in Current Monday that she saw no reason to tighten up universal service obligations. On the same day, however, the Minister for Fisheries said that she would examine this and see if the universal service obligations were actually fulfilled. A review is fine – we support it – but what will the Aspaker Council use this knowledge for?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e89	Today we have an amazing commodity in the cod that swims around in historic quantities in the Barents Sea. That starting point is better than any other country. In Norway, we have to manage this in a way that we can manage to bring the fish to land, that we can manage to produce products that allow us not to compete with low-cost countries, but to find products and markets that are able to pay for that raw material and for the products that are sold from the Norwegian processing industry. There is no contradiction between asking for a statement from the Directorate-General for Fisheries on how universal service obligations have been met from giving these exemptions to the Act of Participation, and the fact that we have started work to look at what the future framework conditions will look like for this industry. One thing is at least certain: to continue in the path we're currently on, where there are red numbers on the bottom line, and where the workstock is going permittably significant parts of the year, is not a forward-looking policy for the coast. So we now have to look to and trust that through the Maritime Industry Committee, which the previous government reduced – and for which they will have great praise, because it was time for us to have such a solid review of this industry and the profitability challenges that we have – now get on the table good suggestions on how to set ourselves up in the future in order to have an industry that will build up under increased activity on the coast, increase employment on the coast and more stable settlement on the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e98	I thought it was nice that the minister wanted a review, as I said. I also think it is nice that the Minister takes up the work after the Stoltenberg government, gives credit for the selection we put down and that she continues the fresh fish strategy. But I would also appreciate it if the minister introduced the whitefish package again – one of the first they took away. But what I asked for was: What will the Minister use the knowledge for – if the universal service proves to be broken? Is it relevant to withdraw the concessions if the fish is not delivered ashore at the agreed location?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e105	When those conditions were set in 2006, it was because the conditions were intended to be followed. When I now discovered that there are cases in the department from 2011, where there are 18 different breaches of universal service obligations that have not been followed up by the previous government – they were with Trond Giske, who was the Council of State – I believe that there is an even greater reason that we are going after what has happened in the years that these conditions should have worked, and how they have been practised. One thing is certain: it's not useful to set terms, it's not useful to have penalties, where, in the ultimate sense, you can actually withdraw the permit to fish, and where the quotas fall back into the community, if you don't actually put power behind it and sanction it. I am now working on this matter and am looking at the kind of reactions to be given to the 18 breaches of the universal service obligation that took place in 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e114	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e117	The Minister of Fisheries talks about profitability for the companies. At the same time, she will regionalise the delivery conditions of the companies. It makes me ask the question, why is there a universal obligation? Well, it exists because if the companies that have been granted a derogation and who have been granted a trawling quota were free to decide, they would have taken the most fish out of the sea as soon as possible, processed it in the cheapest possible way, or at least possible, to be left with as much fish as possible. Delivery conditions were introduced to ensure activity in specific communities, and that is what is now weakened when the government says that they will regionalise delivery obligations. Does the Minister for Fisheries agree that the government's job is to ensure that there will also be values in the community that have historically managed this resource?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e126	It is the government's great ambition that we should increase the value creation of cod fisheries in the form of more land-based processing. It is right that we have said in the government platform that we should look at regionalisation and how other framework conditions around the whitefish industry can help to increase the profitability of this industry. I think you should notice that we have another part of the Norwegian fishing industry that goes down. Comparing the regulation regime around the whitefish industry and the whitefish industry with the aquaculture industry, there are two different worlds. Perhaps some of the explanation is that we do not succeed better with the whitefish, compared to how the salmon have conquered large parts of the world and have become a formidable success, creating huge ring-effects and thousands of jobs along the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e133	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e136	The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Council of State has asked for a review of the universal service obligations of marine fish and whether they have been complied with since 2006. But after the debate on universal service over the last few weeks, a number of definitions of universal service have been introduced. Therefore, my question to the Council of State: can she give her definition of today's universal service and also her desire for what a future universal service obligation may look like, given that Norwegian resources will benefit Norwegian communities, and, as she has said, increase employment and value creation in North Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e144	The supply conditions applicable in Norway mean, for the ship owner, that 80 pst. of cod and 60 psts caught by the vessel. the catch of the vessel by hoist shall be offered in line with the delivery conditions laid down for that ship or for that ship. The catch may be delivered either fresh or frozen. Then we have seen a trend from 2006 to now that may indicate that more and more of the catch has been delivered frozen to land, and that it may be somewhat in line with the need or opportunities for Norway to compete with a freshly processed raw material. Now, when I get this statement from the Directorate of Fisheries, which is going to see developments also over time, I'll look at what were the original conditions, what were the premises at that time, and what progress has been. I see that we have behind us an eight-to-ten-year period where there has been a significant change in how the raw material has been brought to land.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e153	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e156	It is good that the Council of State will sanction breach of universal service, but there is still reason to ask what the government really thinks about universal service, because the Council of State said in a previous reply here that one should look at regionalisation. But that's not what's on the government platform. The government platform says it – and I quote: «The government will maintain the universal service obligations of contracts concluded, but link the obligation to different regions rather than to individual plants and municipalities.» There's nothing to look at, there's nothing to consider – it's a clear point of view. Then last week the Prime Minister said that it didn't mean that one should move fish from North Norway down to Bergen. No, none of us believe either. But we're wondering if that means that you have to associate universal service, for example. to each state, and if one does, it will mean a massive closure of the fishing industry in Finnland. My question is, what does the government platform actually say?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e170	When I say I'm going to look at it, that means we're now in the process of figuring out how to handle the future universal service obligation and the future delivery obligations. It's a work that's in progress. We're going to see it in conjunction with the other framework conditions that this industry probably needs to change. We want to see this in context also with the work being done in the Maritime Industry Committee. I am not prepared here and now to confirm what is going to be the final solution to this regionalisation, but the government platform is standing firm, and this is a work that is going on in the ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e175	Johnny Ingebrichtsen – to the next and last follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e178	One of the new super trawls of the sea fish caught with 15 crews 650 tons of fish during two weeks in January – an impressive catch for both boat and crew. The fish was delivered round-frozen in Ålesund, and it helped increase the frozen fishing sport to China this month. My 70-year-old uncle delivered 3 tons of fish caught with juks to our home port of Gewær, yes, some of these callers say even they are so old that they have more hair in their ears than they have on their heads, but they still supply fresh fish for processing in the home port. What will the Minister of Fisheries do about changes in cod fishing, since it is now the coastal fleet that brings fish more and more to land and gives activity and employment to the fishing industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e187	We've had a development since the 1970s where we've adapted fleet capacity to the resource base, and we have a differentiated fleet today. It has been intended that these different fleet groups should complement each other and bring together a raw material from which we should be able to process as much as possible in Norway. I believe that the challenge now boils down to the fact that profitability is what we now need to focus the most on, because without doing anything to get us full-year, profitable jobs in the fishing industry, it doesn't benefit what we do at fleet level, etc. We need to focus on better profitability in all parts of the Norwegian fishing industry, so this is the big job – neither more nor less. Then you can get caught up in some of the issues here, but this is a big whole, and we're working on a broad approach to really raising this industry, which is going to be one of Norway's big industries for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e194	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e197	I would like to begin by congratulating the Minister of Labour on a new agreement for inclusive working life. I registered with a little smile that the LO leader, who previously strongly warned against a FrP as a government councillor in the Ministry of Labour, suggested yesterday that one had now got the best IA agreement. I would like to highlight in particular the important work that has been done to promote the inclusion of more people, especially young people with disabilities, in the labour market. Since I am so satisfied with the agreement, I should rather ask the Minister of Labour about something else, namely care allowance. It may have been a long time since the election campaign, but we were many who were affected by the story of the Bears of nine years from Tromsø and his family. They had turned the house into a little intensive hospital, and the mother wanted to be home and care for the bears. They had received care allowance, but because the disease was to be considered permanent, they lost their right to care. Fortunately, there is great medical development and progress. There are many who survive serious illness, and there are many who live longer with serious illness. From a more brief period of serious illness, more people are living longer, so that there is a living situation. And there's a lot of stories like Bears's. I know that the Council of State has been contacted – both in the past as a representative of big business and now as the Council of State – by many of the families who have been affected and who have lost the opportunity to receive care. So they want to be at home with the kids, take care of the kids, but they don't get to do it because they don't get the allowance. This is in very many cases the best of the child. What's the actual option? Well, it's that they might end up in an institution, or at least that there must be a lot of care, which costs a lot more than if one parent had taken care of them. My question is: does the Council of State wish to present changes to the care scheme, so that even in the case of a permanent, serious illness, a care allowance can be provided when it is in the best interests of the child?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e210	Let me first thank you for the question. I am also very pleased with the warm commitment of the Christian People's Party to the children who are seriously ill, and that they are concerned that you show impatience in doing something for these children and their families. The government platform clearly states that the government is to reform the care scheme. The government intends to implement the government platform – we are going to reform. I also remember the Bears from Tromsø and his cause, but I have also been around and visited many parents with seriously ill children who need assistance, and who have shut my head in what I call the welfare wall, and have not received the necessary help and necessary follow-up, and who according to today's legislation have not been entitled to care allowance. This means going through the legislation, getting better and more accurate legislation. There is a work to be done by the government, a work to be carried out by the government. Then I also ask for respect for the fact that it is difficult to estimate both the date and the time for when this legislation is in place. It's because I'm concerned with having the best possible legislation, a law that's as accurate as possible, so that the children we're talking about here, and their parents, get the real help with care money and get the real follow-up, so that they can work well when they need help from society in their everyday lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e221	Thanks for the answer. It is tempting to remind the Council of State that, when he was a magnificent representative, he promoted the signed and then-representative Robert Eriksson joint representative proposal to change the care scheme, and as early as 2010 a public committee, the Kaasa Committee, was set up, which went through the care centre and made proposals for how it could be done. So it's been three years since this sample submitted its report, and so it should have come a lot further than for one to start soon. But the most important thing for the Christian People's Party is that a sheep for the best possible regulation for these families in terms of what can ensure the best for the children. We are concerned that, instead of getting a care allowance only in the case of short-term serious diseases, it should not be possible for one to be punished if the child does not get well, but one should be able to have some form of care allowance. That's why I want to challenge the Council of State on speed. I understand that he cannot promise a date, but I expect the Council of State to be impatient, and that he will come quickly to the Storting with a matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e231	The councils are impatient. The draft representative, Mr Ropstad, referred to was a very good proposal for a representative. Let there be no doubt about it. But it was also pointed out and asked questions about part of the legal issues in that representative’s proposal – even if what the representative Robstad himself was talking about, whether the disease is permanent, or whether the disease is persistently unstable, which is also a grey area that is difficult and requires good investigation and understanding of the law in order to obtain good solutions. I want to put forward good solutions, which also take care of that side of the case, but in that area I feel in many ways that the Kaasa Committee does not deliver well enough. Then I remember that it was the previous government that put down the Kaasa Committee. Until it has taken three years: this government has been sitting for four months – what has happened before the four months, I do not take responsibility for it. But I think it's important that we get a good code, which also takes these grey zones in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e238	There will be follow-up questions – first Olaug V. Bollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e241	The parents we're talking about here are just as happy in their kids as we are, even though they have kids who are very vulnerable. Maybe they also think that they can't be with their kids for as long as we get that don't have fully vulnerable kids. Sometimes practical organisation means that the choice to accept extra challenges is made easier because it is known that there are practical measures at the other end when you have had such a child. There is a cross-political consensus in this room that we want to facilitate people waiting for a disabled child to have practical opportunities to facilitate the choice of receiving a disabled child. Does the Council therefore see that this can help to facilitate a choice to receive a child with great vulnerability, and make everyday life easier for these parents? Does the Council of State understand why the Christian People's Party is so concerned that this is urgent?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e248	I understand the Christian People's Party's commitment, and I understand that it's urgent. As I said in my previous answer: I have met many of the children who have been involved on TV 2. Let it be clear: the parents are, as the representative says, as happy in the children as in any other child. And these kids are worth as much as any other kid. What it's about is to provide a good code that allows us to get the help and the scheme we want. I don't think the Kaasa committee delivered on the legislation today. And there has not been any cross-political agreement on that. The regulatory framework today differs, among other things: as to whether the disease is persistently unstable. It's one of the grey zones that's hard to deal with, one of the grey zones where I have a strong ambition that we're going to deliver. I want to invite the Christian People's Party to join that dialogue and get a good law in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e255	Sveinung Rotevatern – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e258	There's no doubt that in any case former staging representative Robert Eriksson had a strong commitment to nurturing money, and it's good to right that he wants to carry it forward in the role of state council. Last March 1, 2012, Eriksson asked the late Minister of Labour, Hanne Bjurstrom, if it was possible to obtain care allowance regardless of diagnosis, and demanded a full review. That's what we're hoping to do. But in the context of that review, I have a slightly more specific question, and it concerns the scaling of the care allowance, where today we have a graduation down to 50 pst. Yesterday, the Minister of Labour presented a new IA agreement, where grading was one of the transition tones. I'm wondering if it's going to be able to go below 50 pst. is something that will be included in the plans of the Council of State to reform the care scheme. It may be important for a lot of people, not least those who have nurturing children who may go to school a little bit, and who may quickly lose their care if they come under 50 pst. for its own part.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e265	The representative Rotevatn addresses a very important question. What is at stake is to ensure that parents can spend time at home caring for the child — show love, show care, care, show closeness — while at the same time being able to combine it with participation in the labour market. I've talked to many parents about how to grade such a system, and how it should be graduated. There are different views about it, but I'm open to considering all aspects of the graduation issue, just to take care of three considerations – first of all, the child, so the parents' consideration of flexibility to both take care of the child and participate in the working life, which are the other two reasons I want to include. We're going to sit down and figure out whether it's going to be a graduation down to 40 pst, down to 20 pst, or whether it's going to be 50 pst. I have not decided for that, but this review must conclude with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e272	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e275	Everyone wants to do the best for these families, and I hear positive signals from the Council of State, even though they are not as clear as the signals from Committee Chairman Eriksson in the previous period. The representative proposal said that you should be entitled to care allowance regardless of diagnosis even if the disease lasted more than two years. One should be automatically granted health care allowance with a health declaration and a recommendation from a medical specialist. The term ‘durablely unstable’ was to be removed from the law and care should be maintained even if the child participated in kindergarten, school or SFO for periods. My first question is: will a new scheme of care allowance be based on the proposal promoted by the Progress Party in the previous period? Then I register that it was said that one had only been sitting for four months. Then it is worth noting that in the draft representative presented in January 2013, the Progress Party would give the government just four months to come up with a new bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e284	I could have only answered yes to that question. The representative proposal, on which the opposition agreed at the time, points precisely to the gaps, problems and challenges in the field of money management. Reforming the care area will also have to be based on the real issues, regardless of whether or not it is the disease picture that will determine whether or not you will receive a care allowance. That is something we should go through and look at in the context of reform, as the draft representative said. With regard to the concept of ‘sustainable instability’, the opposition representative’s proposal included it and is natural to look at when the government is reforming the scheme. The fact that you can be in kindergarten or school when you're fresh in shorter periods is something I'm very concerned about, and that we have to look at when we're reforming the system to seal the holes in the social security network, so that we get a better care system that's more adapted to the individual's needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e291	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e295	The fact that parents who have children with disabilities get both time and profit and the economy to be able to live a good life and preferably combine it with a little job is a goal for the care scheme. We have had samples who have worked on this over several years to look at changes to strengthen the scheme, and a little over one year ago, in February last year, there was a big debate on this in the Stortinget, where the Progress Party believed that there were some changes that could be made quickly, for example. removing the term ‘durable unstable’. What is stable in these families is that it is unstable, while the situation is permanent. What makes it necessary now to take a long time and to be fully investigated, while a year ago there were simple steps that could be taken quickly pending the broad discussion, as the representative Eriksson then said in that debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e300	Firstly, that debate and that proposal was also based on the report of the Kaasa Committee, which was submitted by the then government. I'm not so busy that you're just going to start with the Kaasa Committee. I am concerned that we should do what is on the government platform, namely have a comprehensive review and reform of the system, not an adjustment, but a reform of the system, as it says in the government platform. And if you're going to do a good reform of a system to get the most accurate, get the best possible, get these limits so that it's possible to combine both children and jobs and all the other things, I realize today that it makes sense to have an overall review. I am concerned about getting the most accurate system – which is best for the parents and best for the children, so I believe that a comprehensive review will be the best.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e305	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e308	My question goes to the Council of State Sanner. The government has started work on a municipal reform that will result in a massive renovation of the number of municipalities. The question many people are asking is whether citizens can expect local decisions on the issue of community reunification to be respected. The government creates uncertainty and uncertainty among many of its inhabitants, especially in the smallest districts. Only a few weeks after the government came, it removed with the support of the Christian People's Party and the Left 500 million. in innovation and development funds, which were primarily intended to promote value creation in districts. The same inhabitants are now being challenged by threats of coercion of the municipalities. People in Rakkestad, Us, Witteseid, Lærdal, Rindal, Holtålen, Steigen and Salangen, just to name a few, know a great deal of uncertainty about the merging and centralization of government. I know many local politicians who like to take the discussion about today's municipal structure is the right one for their municipality, but I ask for respect for the fact that it must be local democracy that decides whether it is right or whether it is wrong to implement municipal reunification. The right-hand side shows that it is absolutely necessary to clean up many of today's municipalities. The following is stated on the website: ‘The municipal boundaries of the day are primarily products of topography, church drains and old trade and traffic routes. The organisation of the day limits the ability of municipalities to perform tasks in the best possible way for citizens.’» [[...]] One thing is that they have not taken on board the fact that the number of municipalities has been halved since the 1960s – another thing is that the average municipality in Norway is about twice the average municipality in Europe in terms of the number of inhabitants. Important facts, but still it is much more important to clarify whether we can trust that the Right will respect the opinion of the people and local politicians in future rounds where two or more municipalities consider community mergers. Will the Council of State outrun local democracy, or will the Council of State respect the outcome of a local referendum on community reunification?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e322	I thank you for the question. With regard to today's municipal structure, it is primarily the result of the debate in the 1950s and decisions in the 1960s. Since then, society has changed quite radically. Since then, municipalities have received a lot of new tasks, and we now see some quite significant challenges in Kommune-Norway. This is partly due to demographic change, which means that there will be fewer working people behind each pensioner. We see that many municipalities struggle to have strong professional environments – especially those people who need the most help from society – and we see that many growth regions around the cities are struggling with overall community and spatial planning. That challenge also sees the municipalities. I think that is why a large majority of the rapporteurs of the Central Party in Hedmark – and there have many rapporteurs – are in favour of more than a halving of the number of municipalities in Hedmark. They do so because they see that Kommune-Norge is facing some fundamental challenges, and I want to pay tribute to all rapporteurs and local politicians who are now taking local leadership and sitting down and discussing what challenges we are facing, and how we are to meet those challenges together. This is a matter of taking responsibility as a politician and thinking about the citizens, about the service provision and ensuring that municipalities can be good service providers in the decades to come. That discussion is well under way, and I propose to have a good process and a good dialogue with the municipalities on how to do this. I see that there are now many municipalities in progress – there are over 300 municipalities that have started the discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e329	I thank you for the answer, but it was a shame that the Council of State didn't have a little visit to the topic I actually raised in my question, because what I asked about was volunteering. The centre party will not be at peace with today's municipal structure, but considers volunteering to be a prerequisite. Voluntaryness and locally controlled processes are an indispensable requirement for us. Sanner has spoken in several media after the referendum in Orland and Bjugn, and I think he has been unclear when he answers whether he will respect the referendum. He has said in the debate on the community merger that it is not over and that politicians have to discuss how to organise themselves in the future. It is difficult to understand this statement differently from the fact that he believes that the referendum result is worthless, and that the good local processes that have taken place here are all wasted, should be set aside, and that one should force a merger. I try with a yes/no question: does the Council of State believe that the outcome of referendums and municipal government decisions should be respected? Or is it to be overrun?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e336	We've been very clear that we're using local processes, but as I've also said before, you can get into a situation where, for example. three of the four municipalities say yes and one says no. I believe that the Storting must reserve the right to make an overall assessment. As far as Ørland and Bjugn are concerned, I believe that if Ørland and Bjugn had said yes, they would be in the forefront of development. When I have said that the debate on the Fosen is not over, it is because the challenges that Ørland and Bjugn saw before the referendum have not gone away after the referendum. The same challenges are there. That is why I note that the debate continues, that more municipalities in Fosen are now discussing a major reform. It is also a reality that the central party in Bjugn was involved in the merger, while many from the Right thought that the merger was too small, and therefore opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e343	There will be follow-up questions – first Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e346	I really don't think the Center Party needs any instruction on what the municipal map looks like, or on how to discuss the question of community reunification. There are a lot of people in the Center Party who are concerned about it. But we're concerned with a basic condition for community reunification, and that's volunteering. It is precisely because there is local one who knows the challenges best, and local referendum is the genuine expression of local democracy. It's not surprising that the Right wants large municipalities, we know that. It is not surprising that the Right also wants to remove the county council – we also know that. My prediction is that there will be many local referendums, there are many who want to do so, and what we are asking the Right and the Government today is: will they respect the outcome of a local referendum and thus show respect for local democracy? Will they do it, or won't they?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e351	I have answered that question. We're going to add up to good local processes. But as I have said, if you are in a situation where three out of four municipalities say yes and the latter say no, I believe that the Storting must reserve the right to cut through. However, this is a question that Stortinget gets a good opportunity to come back and discuss, because I will file a case for Stortinget in May. We are a minority government, and we want to have good dialogue with the Storting to get a broad majority behind the reform, and then the Stortinget will have the opportunity to discuss both objectives and instruments and how this will be implemented. But I think it's especially that the Center Party is most concerned about what's going to happen at the end of the reform, instead of being involved in a discussion about what challenges the Municipality of Norway is facing. The right is primarily concerned with strengthening local democracy, and we are committed to providing good services to citizens regardless of whether you live in a large or a small community.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e356	Helga Pedersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e360	I noticed what the Council of State said about having a good dialogue with the Stortinget, because in the political platform of the Right Party government, it says that the government will: «Introduce a testing scheme for the transfer of State and county tasks to the municipalities.» In an answer to a written question, the Minister of State wrote that the government has not intended to involve the Stortinge in this work. That is why I am now going to give the Council of State the opportunity to at least inform the Grand Duchy of what kind of state and county municipal tasks will be included in the pilot scheme. A very central question is whether high school will be involved in that type of trial project, and I ask the Council of State to answer that in a concrete way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e370	This issue, in isolation, does not concern the reform itself. We will return to the reform work on what new tasks and also how we can reduce the detail management of municipalities. We'll get back to Stortinget. However, with regard to the Test Act and the Test Scheme itself, we will follow common practice, namely that it is the government and the ministry that decide on it. In the case of secondary schools, we have not taken a decision on whether to open it up for testing. It would be quite natural for the Ministry of Knowledge to make a professional assessment on a case-by-case basis, and it would be my department and I who have to assess whether this is in line with the Test Act or whether it is not in line with the Test Act. The professional evaluation is in the Ministry of Knowledge, the evaluation in relation to the Test Act is in my department. This also applies if there are other formal applications. So far we have not received any formal applications, we have only received enquiries. We will deal with the applications when they arrive, and then there is a professional assessment that will be crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e377	Geir S. Tuskedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e380	In the context of the community reform, there are a number of tasks to be moved and we are waiting for the expert committee. But I think there might be a lot of organs now that are excited about what's going to happen. It's about intermunicipal samples, it's about both the directorate, I get hope, and the department. But my question goes to the county office. It's a historic office, it's a lot of competence, and it significantly affects the lives of municipalities. It has to do with spatial planning, it has to do with oversight, it has to do with social security and preparedness, family and child protection issues. I believe that the Council of State will also want the county office to be modernised, and they must also have requirements for modernisation and conversion in the new situation. It is a honorary word that has been used in the new government, and it is that we should show 'trust' to local politicians. My question is: is the County going to gain more or less power in connection with the community reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e387	It is right, as the representative says, that we are now going through tasks that are now both in the county municipality, in County, in the districts and departments, to see which tasks can be transferred to larger and more robust municipalities. I think it's very important. Over the last decades, we have experienced a centralisation of power in Norway, partly through extensive cooperation between municipalities and intercommunal cooperation arrangements. It's centralization of power. The state controls the municipalities tougher than you've ever done. It's centralization of power. I want us to show more trust in the communities, more trust in local democracy. Then we're going to shift more power and responsibility to robust municipalities. That is why we now invite municipalities and Stortinget to participate in a discussion about which tasks can be moved down, and then of course we will also look at the statesmen. I have now sent a letter to the statesmen, where I also say that they must show greater confidence in local democracy in land matters, and I have registered it well received.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e394	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e397	State Council Sanner is doing the right thing to stay standing! Over the last eight years, the Right has repeatedly criticised the Red-Green Government for the lack of modernisation of the public sector. It is a criticism shared by the Left, and together we have called for a will for real action. The signals, on the other hand, from the new government don't exactly shine from implementation, although I'm going to give all sorts of homage to the IA agreement, which is a hot spot, that came yesterday. It's a bit on the way to simplification, which is joyous. But, for example, the introduction of our joint proposal on neutral VAT in the state and health care companies, which would release funds for increased patient treatment, is currently locked in a drawer in the Ministry of Finance. We might get it in a municipal reform in eight years. According to the government's plans, nothing shall be done at the level of the county or at the regional level. We have a conglomerate with regard to the instrument for Norwegian business, which could have been coordinated, simplified and modernised to benefit from it. Interactions across different sectors of government are almost non-existent, especially in the field of ICT, where independent reports show weak governance structures, cross-sectoral role conflicts and unclear mandates. The executive power of the government is currently limited to setting up a State Secretaryial Committee on ICT to address issues related to digitisation. My question to the Council of State is quite simple. In order to implement the new ideas and better solutions for the modernisation of the public sector, it is time to deliver and not evaluate. If the Council of State has now come out of the start blocks, my question is.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e408	The answer to that question is yes. I am very pleased with the impatience of the Left. It's important. We want to have good cooperation with the Left and all impatient forces to modernise, renew, simplify and improve the public sector. This is both about our competent employees spending more time doing tasks and less time reporting, and about people, businesses and municipalities getting faster and better help. Let me just quickly refer to what we've started with. The first thing we did was reduce the number of targets in the letters of allocation – fewer and clearer targets. We haven't come all the way to where we're going, but we've started. The Minister of Health halved the number of targets in the letters of allocation. It's important. The second is that we have started a large time thief project, which is now going on in all public agencies, which is that we are now mobilizing all good forces – including the employees – to identify time thieves, which means that employees need to spend too much time on unnecessary reporting, and not on solving tasks. The third is that we have launched important digitisation projects in the area of housing support and also a project that is important, which will help both reduce costs and allow skilled employees to take time to solve tasks. We've reinforced the clarity work. That's important, because clear language allows the administration to spend more time doing tasks, less time answering questions about what's really in the letters. We are now carrying out a major review of the departments to improve the administration of departments as well, and see if we can both save costs and solve the problems in a better way. In addition, I have started an extensive work to simplify the entire planning and building process. The construction costs shall be kept down, the planning processes shall be shorter, the building law shall be easier to deal with. And neutral VAT will be assessed in the context of the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e427	I hear what the council says. An important tool for modernisation is the extensive use of electronic commerce and smarter procurement in the public sector. A report from Menon concludes that the annual savings potential is around 30–45 billion. kr related to public procurement. And the keywords of the report are innovation, competence and culture in the public sector. In his former job in Abelia, the State Secretary of the Council of State, Paul Chaffey, was very concerned about this and suggested to Stortinget that a government grant scheme be set up to stimulate innovative public acquisitions. This proposal has been followed up by the Left. We have proposed such an arrangement in our alternative budgets for both 2013 and 2014. Will the Council of State have it on its wish list when the government is about to put in place, in its first budgetary conference, the 2015 budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e436	We are committed to saving money where it is possible to save money, while at the same time providing citizens with better services. Public procurement is one of the issues that is high on the Minister of Industry’s agenda. What I've now done to get in place is the eManagement Regulation, which means that digital communication is going to be the first choice. It'll really have positive effects. Today it sends out 125 million letters every year. When we can make sure that this is digitized gradually, that means that our employees can spend more time solving problems and less time punching data. That means that you and I will get faster help when we ask for it, as well as that the public will save billions. So here's the big gain to get, while we can make sure our residents get better services.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e443	Follow-up questions will be raised – first Terje Breivik.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e447	As the Council of State just said, digitisation of the public service supply will release billions of dollars. In addition, it will provide much better user service by allowing the developers to do the services themselves. Left will cause state and local government to become a 24-hour and digital administration as soon as possible. Service, simplification and privacy shall be the basis of public digital services. If we are to be closed, municipalities must have free access to national common solutions for digital communications, so that we avoid what we see as a trend now: many unnecessary investments and not least a conglomerate of solutions for the same tasks. The question is simply asked whether the Council of State will ensure that Norwegian municipalities have free access to national common solutions for digital communications and, where appropriate, a time perspective for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e458	This is a very important issue, and I do not at least agree with what Mr Breivik says about the importance of a 24-hour administration. It will really mean that we can sit at home on the kitchen bench and have communication with either municipal administration or state administration. Obviously, this makes everyday life easier for most people, and it also means that we can save resources that can be used in other areas. On the issue of access to common components, it is one of the issues we are now considering. One of the benefits of bringing together the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the Ministry of Renewal is that we can just see public administration in the context. We are now going into that particular issue, how we can see digital communications and common platforms together in countries and municipalities. We've started an assessment of it, and we'll get back to it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e465	Stine Renate Håheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e468	In a statement in the Aftenposten in October 2012, the then depositor Jan Tore Sanner was very critical of the government’s use of money when it came to hiring consultants. Then the representative used the words of Sanner as ‘arousing’ and ‘shocking’. It is therefore amazing that according to the Class struggle of 27 February this year, the Council of State Jan Tore Sanner hires consultants to increase the use of consultants in the departments. So my question is quite simple: how does the Council of State Jan Tore Sanner think that the representative of the big business Jan Tore Sanner would describe such a policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e475	I think Mr Sanner would say that it was a very wise policy, because that representative would not have used the class struggle as a source. That representative would have looked at what the government has actually proposed. I think it's high time we went through and looked at whether we could both renew and simplify the administration of departments. I myself have met a very professional position, a resilient office, but at the same time I also see that here it can be a great potential for improvement. A lot of departments have solved the problems in their own way, and getting a look from the outside to see if you can do it a better way, I think it makes sense. And so, when this report comes, we're going to take a political assessment of it. Then we will have a good dialogue with the staff of the departments and, of course, with the ministerial councils. So we need to have a good dialogue on this, but the objective is clear: we need to renew and simplify the departments as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e484	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e487	I have a question for the Minister of Fisheries. I would like to question whether we have a fisheries minister who first takes into account the fish and the environment and the importance of the fishing industry over the consideration of other industries, because in a press release where she opens up mining waste dumping in the pure Repparfjord in Finnmark, she says the following: ‘We have sufficient knowledge today to conclude that sea-deposit in Repparfjord will not have unacceptable negative effects on the seafood industry.’ This is in direct contrast to what the Directorate of Fisheries says, which we believe we need more investigations, and what the Institute of Marine Research says, that the heavy metal pollution of copper alone will be enough to discourage emission permits. Then there is reason to ask the question: Is the Minister for Fisheries familiar with these reports? And if she is, how can the council explain that she thinks she has good enough knowledge, and that there are no negative consequences, when the trade unions say the opposite? What kind of new knowledge is what Aspaker has that the tradesmen don't have?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e501	The government wants to facilitate growth in the mineral industry, including: by ensuring predictable and knowledge-based planning processes. Mineral activities have consequences for the environment and other industries, like other activities. However, a key question is whether the risks associated with the mineral activity in this case are acceptable in view of the positive effects on value creation, new jobs and positive local ring-effects that the realisation of the Nussir project will have. I believe that the department has received good, thorough investigations, and I have noticed that the Directorate for the Environment says that the environmental conditions of the planned mining operation are well enough established to deal with the regulatory plan. I have also gone through what has been the previous concerns of the old Department of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. There were in particular two things you were concerned about: one was the point of discharge for the masses that might be deposited in the fjord, and the other was the question of leaching cups. To the first question, it is now clear that the point of discharge should not be 60 meters above the bottom, but it should perhaps be all the way down to 1 meter above the bottom. We're now talking about 1-3 meters in terms of the point of exit. It has a major impact on particle dispersal, etc. at sea. It puts the matter in a completely different light. The second question we asked was related to the leaching of cups from the sea depot. There are now reports showing that the emission of copper will be significantly below that of the natural run-off from the rivers in the same area. And then NIVES, our specialist institute, assessed this not to represent a danger to food security. This is information which has led the Ministry of Food and Fisheries to conclude that the environmental impacts are acceptable to the other positive effects of this new activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e516	There may be grounds for saying that the fish have more reason to be afraid of the Minister of Fisheries' knowledge denial than of the fishermen's tools, but I shall not say that, and instead ask a follow-up question to Jan Tore Sanner. The follow-up question is as follows: During the year, the Council of State will deal with both cases of possible mining waste dumping in the pure fjords of Fördefjorden in Sogn and Fjordane and Repparfjorden in Finnmark. Can the Council of State guarantee that he will base the precautionary principle, such as, among other things, is listed in Section 9 of the Nature Diversity Act, so that if there is a technical doubt about the environmental impact and impact on fisheries, the government will not permit the dumping of mining waste in the pure fjords.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e523	Of course, I want to deal with the two matters in accordance with the laws and regulations and guidelines that the Council of State has to deal with, but as these matters end up on my table, I cannot go beyond that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e528	There will be follow-up questions – first Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e532	My question goes to the Minister for Fisheries. So, on the one hand, a commitment to the communities in the north is taken from one side and given to the big companies, and on the other hand, plans to create a system of eternal quotas that will further privatise the natural resources in the north. So the Minister of Fisheries, in his hearing, said that one wanted to open up so that the Repparfjord would be a landfill for mining sludge. So what we're talking about here is 17 trucks with sludge every hour, every day, for 20 years. No one will come to me and tell me that it will not affect life in the sea. My question is, what will local communities actually get back that will weigh up to this superimposed destruction of nature?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e543	The answer to that I think is simple. They're going to have a lot of jobs – a lot of ringing effects. In the assessments we have made, we have taken into account the feedback we have received, and the knowledge we have about how these emissions and deposits are going to take place. And then we've concluded what we've done. The SV believes that oil and gas should not be used in the north, that mineral nutrients should not be used in the north, and that regulation of fisheries should be arranged in such a way that I am quite convinced that it will go further beyond profitability – either by tightening up or by other challenges. I'm really wondering what the party SV is going to offer to North Norway when it comes to feeding by food, it actually beats its legs under the growth potential that is in North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e550	Rigmor Andersen Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e553	The Government and the Cooperation Parties The Left and Christian People's Party has stated in the Cooperation Agreement that the precautionary principle should be used as a basis for policy-making. In the government platform, the aim is to facilitate growth in the mineral industry. Does the Council of State see a possible conflict when these two principles meet? Is the Council of State certain that there will be no further conflict between the mineral industry and fisheries interests in the future, whether it be in Repparfjord or in other fjords, when sea depositing?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e560	I'm very concerned, and I can reassure the representative that the precautionary principle is extremely important. In addition to the fact that we have now assured ourselves of the way in which it is to be deposited – that copper leaching is at an acceptable level – I would like to say that Nussir has proposed to establish its own environmental monitoring facility for the sea landfill in Repparfjord. I believe that it shows that the company takes this very seriously. Obviously, we're going to follow this closely. If there is a floor for mining in Repparfjord, with landfill in the fjord, it is clear that they will have emission levels to deal with. If that environmental monitoring reveals that there is no pact with the emission conditions that may be set – if an authorisation is granted – it will have to mean that the company will have to shut down until it meets the emission conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e565	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e568	I think I can establish that that Council of State and I count as an acceptable level is completely different. There's a lot of emissions here. In Repparfjorden, annual emissions are 240 tonnes of nickel, 580 tonnes of chromium and 1 400 tonnes of copper. In the Fördefjord, there are 10,000 tonnes of mining sludge going into the fjord every day. When the Council of State points out that there will be a monitoring programme here, which is to be followed in retrospect, I wonder if you have also looked at the situation that has been in Bøkfjorden. In Bøkfjorden you have a surveillance program. In Bøkfjorden it has been found that the spread is much larger than that intended, and the spread in Bøkfjorden is today about the size of the entire Repparfjord. Does she think that monitoring is enough, or is it not that the precautionary principle must be taken into account, so that you do not get irreparable damage?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e575	What is my responsibility is to assess impacts on fish and the marine environment. I think we've done that based on the additional questions we asked about how the deposit was actually going to happen, where the masses are going to be emitted, and what's of run-off when it comes to copper. It turns out that the natural run-off is greater than the influence that might come from a mining operation. I am concerned that the environmental monitoring programme agreed with the company to possibly start up must be one that is here and now, so that it is possible to put action in place quickly and to put an end quickly if a future permit, with the limit values then set, was to be challenged. I just want to add that all businesses have some kind of environmental impact. Finding new industries, new businesses, is a challenge both in Finnmark and elsewhere. So that's what you've weighed down in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e584	Rasmus Hansson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e587	In the view of the Greens, basing the future for Nord-Norway and Finnmark on activities that will permanently rage large fjords in a short period of time is not a very sustainable and forward-looking industrial policy. Firstly, it is interesting to note, in the listing of doubts about the professional basis of this measure, that the Council of State uses as an argument that the emissions of any landfill are no greater than the natural supply. The point is that it comes in addition and doubles the dose. So points out, among other things: In its letter of 13 February 2014 to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries to the Ministry of Local Affairs on this matter, the Fisheries Team claims that spawning grounds in the fjord are adequately protected by the regulatory plan. This is after what we can bring to light, error, and I wonder if the Council of State will wait for further recommendation in that case until this has come into place.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e594	I want to start by making a strong reservation against Rasmus Hansson's way of saying, that the government was going to add up to raging large fjords. Of course that's not the case. If there had been a fact in this case, it would have been perfectly obvious that the Ministry of Food and Fisheries had turned its thumb down. We've made an assessment. As regards the emissions of copper, they will be significantly below what is the natural run-off in the area, and we believe that different considerations weighed up against each other – also considering how much fish there is in the fjord, how important the spawning grounds are, whether the spawning grounds are threatened, etc. – all this has been assessed. Overall, it has been found that it is acceptable to say yes to this deposit.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e602	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e605	One of the major fisheries policy debates in the last decade has been on eternal quotas, namely whether the structural quotas should have a time limit, as they originally had, or whether they should be eternal. As we remember, there were strong reactions when former Minister of Fisheries Svein Ludvigsen from the Right almost overnight introduced permanent structural quotas under the Bondevik II regime. This was something that the Stoltenberg II government in turn reversed after extensive democratic processes, among other things. a separate structure selection and treatment in Stortinget. The case was then tried in court and ended with the last harvest that the Supreme Court concluded that the State was in its full right to limit the allowances. Then a lot of people thought that now we're finally getting calm about this question. But no – in the Sundvolden platform, the Right Party and the Advance Party say that ‘structured allowances should be time-limited’, that is forever. Then I wonder: what kind of experience – after all the rounds you've had in the last ten years – is it that the Minister for Fisheries now wants to reopen this ball?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e612	I thank you for the question from Helga Pedersen. I don't know who opened this dance, whether it's the Workers' Party in its transformation, or whether it's that the government stands firm on what has been the policy before it was changed by the Red-Green Government. We have a fundamental challenge in Norway by having a large and important fishing industry. It's vital that we do something to make it profitable in absolutely all parts of the industry. It is also important that we make it possible to make the framework conditions and framework conditions so predictable that it is an industry that is able to renew, relocate and reinvest. That's where the core of this is with time-indeterminate allowances. We're talking about a big and important fleet that's going to bring the valuable raw material to land, and that needs predictability for its operations. Investing in boats, being able to invest in quotas, being able to have a healthy economy in the fleet is also about what kind of long-termness you can have in your investments. That's the starting point for saying that we have to look at this again with unlimited quotas. I have also signaled that I want to seek the widest possible cooperation with Stortinget on this matter. We cannot have such an important industry as the fishing industry and make it dependent on the election results every four years. In fact, I hope that the representative Helga Pedersen can agree with me. I am pleased that the fishing industry is now high on the national agenda, but we have to take seriously that this is a very capital-intensive industry that needs to have a good economy in order to be forward-looking and top-notch modern. So we also believe that this with how long you have your quota for is actually quite important in that picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e623	All parties in this Chamber agree that fisheries policy should support profitability both at fleet level and on land. But I thought it was interesting to note the history of the Minister for Fisheries, because the long history of structural quotas is that they have always been limited in time. The exception then came Svein Ludvigsen under the Bondevik II government making them eternal by a regulatory change and without political debate in advance. That is why it is also interesting that the Minister for Fisheries so strongly stresses it with predictability, because what gives the most predictability? Is it that you relate to the traditions in this area and have a time limit with broad political outreach behind you in the Storting, or is it reopening the discussion of eternal quotas with a maximum uncertain outcome in this room? And when the Minister for Fisheries invites agreement in this Chamber on the question, I ask, what does that mean? Will she go away from what's in the government statement?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e630	What is contained in the Government Declaration stands firm. That's the government's goal. But I'm so realistic that I understand that a minority government must also create a majority for the issues on the government platform. I take very seriously the dialogue I have with the industry, and I hear something quite different from what Helga Pedersen here says – that the discussion that has now been has been devastating for the industry. No, on the contrary – one has tried the case in the Supreme Court, and we have received this Volstad judgment. I believe that it is important for the industry that we clarify and define what will be the future here, and I do not perceive that the change made under the red-green government provides good enough framework conditions for the industry in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e635	There will be follow-up questions – first Tove Karoline Knutsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e638	Timeless or eternal structural quotas violate the principle that fishing resources should be the common property of the people. Therefore, the Labour Party and a majority in this Chamber – probably – believe that the structural quotas should have a time limit. Time-limiting will dampen the price pressure on the allowances, contribute to lower leverage in the industry and realize the ambition of a fishing drift fleet with a scattered ownership. Governments often talk about eternal allowances improving the predictability of the industry. But this kind of predictability can soon become an exclusive privilege for a few. We need to facilitate an industry that offers innovation, diversity and that from time to time we need new blood in the form of young, skilled people who want to bet and who challenge the thinking of the people. How will the Council of State prevent permanent structural quotas from becoming a tool for the establishment of a new «fashion-king system»?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e645	I can't help but take on the description that today's fishing industry and fleet structure are a 'fashion-king system'. It's not. There are a lot of good, competent people who have made long-term investments, who need predictability, and who are the key to getting the raw materials to land, and that we are going to get to the processing activity on the coast – which the Workers' Party in so many other contexts is so busy. Today we have a very varied fleet. We have a fleet that looks ahead, but as politicians we also have to realize that it requires some framework conditions that allow the largest boats to actually make investments in hundreds of millions of classes, and know that you have certainty that you actually have quotas that you can fish on when it's been a couple of decades. We have to ask ourselves the question: what kind of other industries in Norway have the kind of lack of predictability that the Workers' Party will now provide the fishing industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e654	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e657	What we're discussing now is a matter of enormous national importance. It's about ownership of the most valuable resources of the future – whether they belong to a few shipowners or the whole people. I saw in the newspaper’s online edition last night that the Right’s representative Frank Bakke-Jensen refused that eternal allowances had something to do with privatisation, despite the fact that in the Supreme Court case that went on recently, we were told by the Swedish Confederation of Fishermen that the purchase of allowances was comparable to the purchase of an agricultural property. We see a lot of play with words from the government. I fear that we will soon hear that this is not a question of fishing rights, but fishing opportunities. What we're facing is a privatisation of resources. How can an allowance not be privatized if someone is to own it forever?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e664	The principle is that this is about a right to fish, and that the quota follows the boat. This is the guiding principle for how we have organised ourselves in the Norwegian fishing industry. We've been doing that since the 1970s, under changing governments. We have agreed that we should close the fishing, that we should adapt fleet capacity to the actual resource base for sustainable fishing, and that there are also some framework conditions relating to how we should have predictability to make investments at fleet level. I hear that the red-greens are now questioning perhaps some of the most basic things that are important for us to be able to have fishermen who dare to invest and who ensure that we have a fleet that can bring back to land this raw material that is so valuable and that is the very prerequisite for both activity, jobs and increased value creation in Norway in the maritime food industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e672	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e675	The fishing industry is important, and it needs predictability and long-termity. But there are many other industries that also need predictability and long-termity, which relate to time-limited rights without creating any problems for them. The entire hydropower industry is built on time-limited rights. So I'm having trouble seeing that it's going to be very special for the fishing industry. After the Supreme Court — Volstad judgment — which clarified that what the red-green government was doing was quite correct, and that there was a full opportunity to do so, the Minister of Fisheries was also concerned that a solution had now to be found that could stay with regard to changing governments, so that stability could be achieved for the industry. My question is simply: will the Council of State avoid doing what her colleague Svein Ludvigsen did in the period 2001-2005, just change a regime with a pen stroke? Will she take the initiative in a broad settlement in the Storting, with many of the opposition parties being dragged along, to get a predictable regime in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e682	To the last question, the answer is yes. I want the widest possible anchoring in Stortinget for what should be the framework conditions for what is Norway's most remote industry, where we have eternity as a perspective. That's why it's so important. In the case of the Volstad judgment, it stated one thing: that it is actually a political decision to take, what kind of framework conditions the fishing industry should have relating to the duration of the quotas. So here you've said yes or no to one or the other policy, and you've actually established that this is a decision that it's up to big business and government to make. Then I might think that the comparison with the hydropower industry is not very good, because they have a significantly longer time horizon associated with their ownership rights than these barely thirty years now available with the red-green decision in the previous period.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e691	Rasmus Hansson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e694	State councils took a great deal of distance from the concept of ‘raveling’ of large fjords. As a biologist, I'm going to say that when you empty huge amounts of sludge out of the bottom environment of a fjord, you're going to ruin that bottom environment. What this question is about is how much destruction the Minister for Fisheries is willing to tolerate on behalf of the Norwegian fishing industry. Then it is interesting to note that both the Fishlayer, the Coastal Fisheries Team and the seafood industry are strongly opposed to both the mining measures we are talking about now and the measures that are in line. So the question is, will the Fisheries Council continue to stand on the side of the mining industry against its own business organisations in these... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e701	This is a question that relates to the previous main question, and you have to stick to the question that is actually raised. The Council of State may choose whether to respond.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e704	I can answer that. We believe that the assessments made, from a marine environmental point of view and from a fisheries point of view, are sound, i.e. with the feedback we have given on discharges to Repparfjord. Then I would also like to stress that it has actually been, and is, in this case, a good dialogue between the Fiskerlag and Nussir in terms of looking at this environmental monitoring programme and on how to adapt fishing activities and this mining activity during the course of the March – if authorised.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e711	Pål Farstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e714	I am pleased that fishing is high on the agenda and that the Minister for Fisheries is constantly being called up here for questions. It is gratifying for an industry that creates enormous values for Norway. What's the question here now is fixed-term quotas, a matter that creates great debate and enthusiasm, both here in the house and in the industry, and so does it in the left. I am very pleased with what the Minister for Fisheries has stated, that she will invite to dialogue on that issue. So my question is, how will that dialogue take place, in what way will this be taken to Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e721	I have not actually taken a decision on how that dialogue should be conducted, but I am concerned that we should make the best possible decision in this area. Then I think that we should involve the Stortinget both in advance and after, and that we have a thorough discussion on how we should ensure in the best possible way that we have predictability and long-termity in what is about the quota base, and on how the fleet should be allowed to develop further and be profitable and be the important tool as it is the first paragraph of the Norwegian fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e726	The oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e738	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments are proposed for approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative of Mr Vegar Solhjell to the Minister for Transport, has been withdrawn. Questions 3, 4, 5 and 6 from the representatives of Geir Pollestad, Janne Sjelmo Nordås, Ivar Odnes and Trygve Battle Violence Vedum to the Minister for Climate and Environment, respectively, must be postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e753	My question goes to the Minister of Finance: ‘The active and public exercise of ethically justified ownership of State pension funds abroad has proved to be important and effective. However, the Strategy Council in its report proposed that the Ethics Council should be placed under the Bank of Norway, and that public reasons for the extraction of companies should no longer be given. The Ethics Council itself believes this will challenge ‘one of the bearers’ in current practice. Does the Council of State think that less publicity and independence around the ethical administration is the way to go for the oil fund?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e767	The government is concerned that responsibility and ethical awareness should be demonstrated in the management of the State pension fund abroad, and there should be transparency in this work, but I do not agree with the representative Hansson that the Strategy Council should have recommended that public reasons for the extraction of companies should no longer be given. The Strategy Council has been very clear that they recommend more and not less transparency. As regards the exclusion of companies, the Strategy Council has recommended that it be left to Norway’s Bank to assess the degree of transparency and public evidence in the individual cases. I can assure the representative that the government wants to have increased public awareness of the ethical work. Transparency is a prerequisite for ensuring broad trust in governance. In the communication on the State pension fund abroad, which is presented in a short time, I will come back to the follow-up to the recommendations of the Strategy Council and how we can ensure legitimacy in ethical work. I also remind you that the Stortinge will have the opportunity to discuss the advice we have received, and the follow-up of these by the government, in its full scope in the context of the Stortinge's handling of the message.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e776	Thank you for the answer, as I see it there, that the Council of State is behind the importance of clarity and publicity in relation to the treatment and exclusion of companies by the pension fund. In this context, the Strategy Council, as we read the recommendation, specifically recommends that the exclusion of companies should no longer be accompanied by explicit justification, as is currently the case. It will significantly weaken the understanding and signal effect of exclusion. Will the Council of State ensure that we continue to have clear grounds for the exclusion decisions that may then be made in the Bank of Norway or in a continuing ethics council?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e783	As I said in my previous answer, the government is very concerned that there should be transparency around the management of the SPU, because it's about trust and legitimacy. Now that we are reviewing the recommendations of the Strategy Council, we must assume that this is a report which is primarily an important professional contribution to strengthening the strategy for responsible investment practices. So I have noticed that many of the hearing bodies are very positive about the process and the mission of the Strategy Council. We are now working on what recommendations we want to make based on the ten recommendations of the Strategy Council that have been made, and not least on how we can continuously work to strengthen investment practices, transparency and credibility around the fund. We believe that this is absolutely essential for legitimacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e801	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e848	These questions are put to the vote. Then we go to question 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e857	‘In the Official Journal of Bergen on 22 February 2014, the Minister for Health stated that he disagreed with the fact that Health Bergen would be asked to research into LAR intake criteria with rapid-acting opiates as a medicine for those who have not been able to benefit from today’s LAR offer. Will the Council of State use its right of instruction to stop this research project, which may be medically proven to have a health effect?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e864	A majority of the Stoltenberg Committee proposed a temporary pilot project to include heroin treatment in LAR, medically assisted treatment. The Norwegian Research Council was asked to organise a national consensus conference on heroin-assisted treatment. The Panel concluded unanimously that they did not find sufficient grounds for introducing heroin-assisted treatment in Norway. In connection with Stortingen’s treatment of drug use, Report. St. 30 for 2012-2013, an overall committee stated the following: ‘The Committee agrees that heroin-assisted treatment should not be allowed. The Committee considers that drug-free treatment or LARs are better alternatives for those most in need of treatment.’ I therefore assume that there is a broad majority on the Grand Duchy that will not allow heroin-assisted treatment, which this government is also basing. The government believes it is more important to strengthen existing interventions and services that can reach this group of drug addicts. During 2014, regional health enterprises will purchase 200 new treatment sites from non-profit institutions serving households. There are also places for the most needy. In addition, health care businesses are required to purchase an increased capacity of 255 million. in the field of mental health protection, intoxication and rehabilitation from private and non-profit institutions serving households. Furthermore, the specialist healthcare services in all health regions, in cooperation with the municipalities, should establish lowthreshold LARs for the most help-intensive group of opiate addicts. The government has said we want to establish reception centres in the largest cities, and we have, among other things, the eartag over 340 million. DKK in 2014 to enable municipalities to build up better offers. All these measures will also be able to capture addicts with special help needs. I have contacted Health West in connection with Mr. Grung's question, and they say the following: ‘The strategic research funds made available within the health business structure shall be used in line with the policy leadership of the Ministry of Health. Any research effort within the health enterprise structure that investigates the response of opiate addicts to treatment with different authorised drugs [[including methadone and buprenorphine]] On the basis of the Health West statement, I am confident that they will handle the application for research funding in the field in line with the national leaders and legislation that exist in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e894	Fortunately, a lot is happening within the drug field. But even though such a heavy environment as Health Bergen, which has built up its drug department in recent years, has managed to get two thirds of the opiate addicts, who are within their impact field, into lowthreshold treatment, there are still some who are unable to get in during health care. Although they have tried all the measures outlined by the Council of State, it appears that they react either with anxiety or in other ways. I have been in contact with the Social Agency from the Christian People's Party in Bergen, and he asked me to ask the question further: What is the alternative for those who cannot avail themselves of this offer, even though they have tried everything? What does the Minister of Health think we should give them of offers?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e901	This was the question that was raised in connection with the recommendation of the Stoltenberg Committee. The sample proposed a limited trial project to this particular group: those who fail to succeed in LAR. It was also the theme of the Research Council's consensus conference. It is precisely what is at the heart of this: the experience from countries that have made similar attempts suggests that it is not the group that the representative of Grung, the social bureau in Bergen or this environment in Bergen are bringing forward as the target group, which has the opportunity to benefit from such treatment. That is exactly what the Research Council has also taken a decision on, and as far as I am aware, there is nothing new in the area that should indicate that a person should have a new assessment of that question now. This was also central when Stortinget last took a position on this and unanimously said no to that type of experiment.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e910	What is new is that we are now trying to assess which criteria are needed to reach the group that has not yet succeeded. It was very gratifying to hear this morning that the Health Council is dealing with a new growth and wants to raise biotechnology. Is it not right, which is a knowledge-based party, interested in getting as broad a research as possible, and do they realize that in the field of drug research, each stone has to be lifted to see if we can develop a better policy, which is better? The goal of Health Bergen is to reach 80 pst. and get them under lowthreshold treatment and by reducing the open Russian scene, ready to reduce the recruitment of drug users and, in particular, make the criminal environment, which is especially linked to the open Russian scene, to be confused. I demand that the same openness as the Council of State was referred to this morning in the field of biotechnology, also applies to drugs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e921	I'm always open to discussing what kind of instruments we're going to use in the russian area, but I have the most faith in concentrating the efforts on the things that we know actually work. The question the representative here raises is exactly the question that Stortinget raised recently. There is no discussion of the criteria to be used in LAR. It can be a good research and a good discussion. The core question is whether we should open up in Norway to trial projects with heroin-assisted treatment aimed at a target group, namely those who fail to succeed with the LAR. That's the core of the question. That question has recently been addressed by the Stortinget, and in order for the Stortinget to have a good basis for deciding on it, a rather recent consensus conference under the auspices of the Research Council has actually been held. The unanimous advice we have received from there is that there is no basis for such a pilot project in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e932	«The number of beds in Norwegian hospitals has been halved since 1980. There is also more than half-life in the same period of time. Only Israel and Turkey have had less lay time than Norway in the last few years. Changing working forms and patient processes explain part of this. However, many reports point to bedding shortages as a cause of overcoating, which in turn may lead to reduced treatment and care quality. Does the Council of State mean that we should further reduce the bed capacity of Norwegian somatic and psychiatric hospitals?»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e939	The latest OECD figures show that Norway has fewer sicklehouses per capita within somatic areas than the OECD average. We are slightly lower than Denmark, but higher than Sweden. In the case of sleep time in somatic hospitals, several countries have a shorter bedtime than Norway, among others. Sweden and Denmark. In the field of mental health protection, Norway is very much compared to the rest of Europe. The number of somatic hospitals has decreased in most countries. The reduction is due to changes in medical technology and the transition to day surgery and outpatient clinic. In the field of mental health protection, we are embarking on a long-term and desired transformation of mental health services, from a traditional 24-hour offer to a more open and outlying service. The aim is to facilitate the dignity and the most common life for people with mental health challenges. The principle of patient rehabilitation has also changed over time. Greater emphasis is placed on early mobilisation of the patient’s ability to manage their own rehabilitation quickly – preferably in their home environment. Long laytime in hospitals may contradict this. In many disciplines, the need for beds has decreased although the number of patients is increasing. The 2012 interaction reform will also affect the need for health care services by allowing more patients to receive services in municipalities. The difference in bed and bedtime needs to be assumed to be somewhat related to the differing use of new technologies and working methods by countries. I don't want to run the hospitals with a background in the number of beds. The most important thing is that patients are treated in a timely manner with good quality, whether in hospital or as day surgery or outpatient. Regional health establishments must also assess at all times how the service is to be organised, including the need for bed places and other services.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e962	I would first like to thank you for your answer. Obviously, there are many good reasons why health services have fewer beds now than before. The question is whether developments are going too far and whether they are at the borders of the defence officer. In England they've now seen an upper coating limit of 85 pst. And they're discussing whether it's too high. In Norway, we're over it. The Health Committee heard on 25 February 2014 about Oslo University Hospital, OYS, where it was found that those there were planning to increase the occupancy rate from 85 p.m. to 90 pst. They claim that this can go beyond the good patient supply. Now the government is going to put forward a national health and hospital plan, and I think it would be interesting to hear what kind of evidence percentage the health authorities and political guidance I believe should be acceptable to Norwegian hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e967	That's absolutely right. We are now working on a national health and hospital plan to be submitted to the Stortinget in October 2015. There is the objective of addressing some issues related to the criteria underlying the development of the specialist healthcare service — get a national plan for this — in order to ensure that we have a specialised healthcare service that is dimensioned to meet future needs. What is important then is that one of the factors that affect specialist health care to a very large extent, which will evolve in the years to come, is the medical-technical development and treatment of patients. Of course, it is a great advantage for patients when they have the opportunity to have simple, day-to-day surgery and not to be hospitalized. It will also affect bed requirements in the future, and it is one of the conditions that will of course be discussed in the plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e972	I hope that not only will it be discussed, but that something will actually be adopted in the Biggest. I want to use my last question to go more into the psychiatry. I also know that the conversion that has happened has our desire, both politically and professionally, but it has been a closure of beds of 20 p.m. from 2005 to 2012 – a major transformation. This has been desired, but the question that is also about the conversion goes too far. We have received quite a number of warnings, both from professionals and patients, that evolution has gone too far, and that it has happened without one having built up adequately at the other end. I want to repeat my question: does the Minister of Health think that we should put additional beds in mental health protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e981	What is important to emphasise in mental health is that we are in the situation that Norway is still very high internationally in terms of the number of daily places and beds. We are still working to decentralise the supply of mental health, both in terms of the district psychiatric centres and in the municipalities. My main objective in this area is to build up a better offer for people with mental health challenges in the municipalities, so that one avoids getting into the situation that many people are today: that they need to get very sick before they get help and thus need to get into the specialist health service. But in the mission document we have also given two important messages in this area. One is that one should not downgrade offers until one is sure that offers are built up to care for the patient. The second is that we have reintroduced the ‘golden rule’, which says that the growth in mental health and alcohol alone should be higher than somatic in all health regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e990	‘In Supplemental Prop. 1 S for 2014 the government added an increase of approx. 250 million. ed private caregivers in the field of drugs and psychiatry. The problem in many places in the country is that there are few – in Finnmark none – private actors within e.g. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Does this mean that people who have toiled in Finnmark or elsewhere where private operators are few cannot use the earmarked money for an offer under the authority of the public utility?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e997	All addicts have the same patient rights regardless of where they live. Those with a drug problem shall be provided with quality of service and the services shall be available. This government has in a short time significantly increased attention in the field of drugs in general, and in particular in relation to the needs of drug addicts for treatment. Work is now well under way on escalating schedules in the drug field. Services will be a central element of the plan. Then we have reintroduced the ‘golden rule’ for health businesses — that annual growth should be greater in multidisciplinary specialised treatment for drug addicts and mental health protection than in somatic care. Furthermore, we have reintroduced the earmarked funds to the municipalities, i.e. the funds that the former government had invested in the free resources of the municipalities, and thus did not ensure that this was at the disposal of drug addicts. We need to strengthen the capacity of multidisciplinary specialised treatment with 200 new places purchased from non-profit enterprises. All regional health enterprises will announce acquisitions during the spring so that new contracts with non-profit institutions can be in place during the year. We need to introduce free treatment options — first in drugs and mental health protection. We're aiming for this to happen during 2015. As the representative Knutsen says on the issue, the government has also increased the basic appropriations for regional health enterprises by 255 million. kr. These funds will be used for further acquisitions in multidisciplinary specialised treatment, mental health protection and rehabilitation, and in this way the public offer to this group will also be strengthened. The acquisitions are to be carried out precisely because we note that too many addicts have to wait too long. Then it is important that we use the available capacity that is at private, non-profit companies. When Health Nord is now to carry out an acquisition on the drug field among private actors, the aim is to strengthen the supply throughout the Health Region of the North. At this stage, it is not possible to say which actors will be agreed and where they are located geographically. The waiting time for multidisciplinary specialised treatment in Health Nord has fallen in recent years. Yet, too many people wait too long. I expect – when a person is given these means – that the waiting time will decrease further.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e1010	I stand here and know that I have not received an answer to my question, because this is something we are met with when we travel around: Is it really that way that it is the handlers of these 255 million. kr extra should be added – i.e. the private caregivers – and that it should not be the patient and the patient’s needs that determine where to put the effort and this extra money? In the comments of the red-green parties, we said that we agreed on the earmarking of this money for drugs and psychiatry, but that we wanted the patient's need for treatment to come first, and that it was the sickest patients who had to get help in the specialist health service. This the government parties would not join. Can the Council of State confirm that what the red-green batches said is what is to be used as a guide for health businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e1017	No one's going to get a single penny of this 255 million. kr without treating patients, so let it be fixed. We have just received a report that tells us that the private players in the drug field provide significantly more treatment per capita than what they do in the public sector. We also know that there is a significant amount of available capacity in private drug institutions. The fastest and most effective way to translate this money into what they are about, namely, treating patients, is to do exactly what the government has done: earmark this money to use them to buy free capacity from private actors. Had one done as the red-green government and the opposition wanted – after we had managed to prioritize the money for the drug field – to spend this money within the public system, we would have risked that we had had fewer treatment places for the money, and that it had taken longer before the addicts received treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e1022	The study to which the Council of State refers also shows that it is public that has the sickest patients and that also has the highest level of competence in treatment. So maybe it's natural that it also costs a little bit more. But my question is, if there are patients in Finnmark who really need treatment, are they going to have to use free capacity in Trøndelag to get treatment, whether that offer helps patients or not? Is it the patient's need for treatment to control the money, or is it the need of private individuals to use the capacity they have?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e1029	The patient’s need for treatment should apply. This is also the reason why this money is used where the fastest treatment can be given at the best price possible. I believe that for the patient it is not so important whether he is being treated in Finnmark or in Trøndelag, but that he is being treated. What we see is that this is a patient group that very often has a very conscious relationship with which treatment institutions they want to receive treatment. It's a conscious relationship, which is very rarely about where the institutions are located, but more about which method is used in the treatment. Therefore, it is important for me to stress that the addicts in Finnmark have the same patient rights as in the rest of the country. This means that they can also choose to have the treatment carried out elsewhere than in Health North. Of course, they can also choose to enter into agreements with treatment institutions that are not located in Health Nord. In addition, it is fully possible for private actors wishing to establish institutions to do so in the Health Nord area.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e1039	‘TV 2 had a deeply tragic report on Mathias, which died in an accident on Sunday 23 February, only 20 years old. In the report, it was also found that close to 25 pst. of those who died in the workplace last year were under 27 years of age. This may be the result of many young people being seen as demanding jobs without training and follow-up. A total of 48 people died at work in 2013. What will the Council of State do to reduce the number of out-of-work workers with death in succession, especially with regard to young people?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e1046	First, I would like to say that the representative addresses a very important question. It is with great concern that in the last three years we have had an increase in the number of fatal accidents in Norwegian workplaces. In 2013, 48 people died at work. Most deaths occurred in construction, primary industries, mining and transport. I think we all very much agree that we want to have a working life where people will not die as a result of accidents at work. The employer is primarily responsible for health, the environment and safety. The work on prevention is done by the Labour Inspectorate. In 2013, the Labour Inspectorate carried out approximately 2000 inspections focusing on accident prevention. In 2014, the Labour Inspectorate will monitor even more closely and will carry out further inspections, with a view to preventing accidents. It is very serious and especially that young people are very vulnerable, as many studies show. This is why more than 500 supervision has also been carried out in 2013 specifically for young people. We focus on good, active and preventive supervision of those sectors where we see that the risk is highest. The Labour Inspectorate is also involved with guidance, information and awareness among employers to prevent accidents and reduce the risk of accidents. The Labour Inspectorate has put in place its own initiative, called ‘New in the labour market’, which is aimed specifically at new entrants and young people entering the labour market for the first time – this is precisely in order to provide good information and guidance on how working life works, to reduce the number of accidents and to give a high level of attention to health, the environment and safety. In addition, the government has strengthened the Labour Inspectorate by 12 million. kr, precisely to provide even more guidance and to carry out preventive supervision, in order to reduce the number of fatalities in Norwegian workplaces.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e1059	I thank the Council of State for your answer. It is good to hear that he is as busy as I am to bring down the number of workers. We have to work for a zero vision here, like in traffic. I found the Council of State pointing to a number of measures that can be identified. Work environment laws include: aimed at ensuring a working environment which provides a basis for a health-promoting and meaningful working situation and which provides full security against physical and mental harm. Now the government announces a weakening of the work environment law. It is not concrete what this should be about, but there is reason to believe that it is about longer working days, more overtime and more temporary additions. Does the Council of State see the link between a strong law and a safe workplace? Does he think that several temporary additions will help reduce the number of accidents at work?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e1066	Firstly, it is wrong what the representative claims that the government has plans to weaken the Working Environment Act. We need to improve the work environment law. We need to adapt the situation of employees in everyday life, as it is today. We're listening very carefully. I'm out in many jobs, both in the public and private sectors. I'm listening to the employees around. I'm asking for input and I'm asking about how your working life works. I ask what changes and improvements they want to get more flexibility and get life in the workplace and private to go up. There is no impairment, but a better adapted work environment law compared to the current situation. That's what the government has to deliver on. I would like to stress that in any case, the health, environmental and safety requirements will be at the bottom. They're incredibly important. They are to be followed, and employers are obliged to follow them, regardless of whether or not they reduce the threshold for getting more people into the labour market by reducing the threshold by lowering the threshold for temporary employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e1073	In February, the National Institute for Safety and Health at Work produced a report on working time and health. One of the main findings is that one confirms that long work sessions can lead to a reduced function, with the subsequent increased risk of failure. The report also shows that the holding points are strengthened to ensure that both long hours of work, night work and rotating shifts affect safety and increase the risk of injury and accidents in the workplace. The government has said that it is positive to longer normal working days and opens up for more overtime. Why does my Council of State say that it is good policy when research shows that it increases the risk of injuries and accidents, both for additions, patients and users?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e1080	First of all, I think you should have respect for using that STAMI report correctly. The STAMI report states that if a long-term employee changes from day one to day, two days to night watch and the third, or has long-term adverse working hours, this may lead to health challenges. What I have been positive about is, among other things, the project that Ladegården in Bergen has arranged, and that the employees in Bergen want – I have listened to the employees – a working time plan that goes out on 11-hour shifts every four weekend, i.e. once a month. Taking the STAMI report for income because it is hazardous to health is not a basis for doing so. There is nothing in the STAMI report that points out that it is hazardous to health. I think you should use the STAMI report with intelligence and correctness.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e1089	The question is: 'To send crumbs out of the country has been a recurring theme. It has been considered by Norwegian authorities that there is a danger to life and his health if he is sent back to Iraq, subject to international conventions. The progress party has repeatedly stressed that if they themselves came into government, he would quickly be returned. What has the Council of State done since the government joined in order for Krekar to be sent out of the country when he has completed his sona?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e1098	Work on the forced return of Faraj Ahmad Najumuddin, also called Mulla Krekar, is a priority task for the government. There is a valid administrative decision on the expulsion of Mulla Krekar for the sake of national security. However, his obligation to leave Norway is suspended until the situation in Iraq is such that a return to that effect can be carried out within the framework of what is sound in relation to Norway’s human rights obligations. The Norwegian authorities have close dialogue with the Iraqi authorities on the matter. A central theme of this dialogue has been the possibility of concluding an agreement with Iraq that allows for the return of Mulla Krekar without the execution of any death sentence, as well as the fulfilment of other human rights conditions. The Ministry is constantly working on a lot of issues. This is one of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e1107	I thank you for your answer. I'm not surprised at that. Everyone's a few things about the target: Crickets are to be sent out of Norway. Most of us, however, have realized that it's not just pinching your fingers to get it done. Central progress party politicians have expressed themselves in particular on this matter for several years. It was made as a promise that Krekar would quickly be sent out of the country if they came into government, and it was a simple affair. Some people even claimed that it wasn't supposed to take off many flights from Gardermoen until Krekar put on one of them. I can inform the Minister of Justice that since the change of government has taken 42,069 flights from Gardermoen. When we listened to the rhetoric of the Advance Party before the 2013 election, we could believe that the party knew about a code that the red-green government had not used. Based on the response of the Minister of Justice and Preparedness, do I understand him correctly – that the statements of the representatives of the WCC have not been sustainable or feasible, and that they lack legal anchoring?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e1114	I think most of those statements had two elements in them. One was linked to the broadcast – or I think it was something like this: either he was to be locked in or sent out. Since the government change, Mulla Krekar has been in prison. We're working on how to get him out of the country after we've ended our asylum.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e1119	In any case, the principle of power distribution means that the government cannot take credit because the courts have seen him behind locks and beats. Of rhetoric, a person can make an inexpensive point where he separates himself from the reality of the matter. The party of the Minister of Justice and Security has for a long time used this matter for that very purpose. But going side by side with international conventions and obligations can't be a legal state like Norway does. Governments still need to press the red-green government to establish extradition agreements with as many countries as possible. In April 2011, party leader Siv Jensen stated that mulla Krekar should be in custody in Norway pending safe and defence return. It's a special statement that's legal. Has the Minister of Justice and Security now started a legislative work in the Ministry of Justice and Defence to satisfy the current Minister of Finance Jensen's desire to put the Krekar in custody? And has the Progress Party learned from this case in view of future rhetoric?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e1126	Firstly, the Progress Party has been clear that Mulla Krekar no longer has legal residence in the country, he is to be sent out of the country. So, of course, as the representative repeats in several of his questions, Norway is bound by international conventions. We work with a lot of different tracks to see how we can get mulla Krekar sent out of Norway. He's now in prison. We work in the department with different ways of getting a return to Iraq, and we work hard to follow up on what many of the representatives of the Progress Party, myself included, have been busy for many, many years. But the representative Klinge is right in one thing, and it's that it's very rare in some political case that it's just pinching his fingers. One has to do a hard job to get it done, and to the extent that special information is needed for the Storting en route in such a process, I can assure you that it will be given properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e1135	«On the evening news on Wednesday, 26 February, State Councillor Anders Anundsen said that it was the head of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee's problem that the Stortinget was not informed about the PST's threat assessment. What evidence does the Council of State have of such a claim?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e1142	I am actually a little surprised at this question from the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence in the situation Europe is now in, but this is the answer. What I said in the evening news Wednesday 26 February was: ‘We propose that the Storting should be informed in advance of the presentation of the overall threat assessment from the PST, which has also coordinated the NSM and the E service.’ I briefed, as you know, the extended Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on Friday 28 February 2014 on the current risk and threat picture related to will-driven events in the area of social security. This statement was essentially based on input from the Police Security Service, but also included input from the Intelligence Service and the National Security Authority. This presentation was presented to the enlarged Foreign and Defence Committee in advance of its public presentation yesterday.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e1152	I think this is a strange answer, because I heard the evening news that the Minister of Justice and Defence signed the responsibility that it was not called to a meeting. We've been asking from Stortinget for a meeting for two months. At the latest in an e-mail from the Ministry of Justice and Defence, we see the civil service regret that we have not received feedback that we want such a threat assessment. So the Minister of Justice and Defence goes to the NRK, blames the undersigned and then asks for a meeting a few hours later. I find it a little strange that the Minister of Justice and Security uses the jargon of an opposition politician – as at the time he was head of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee – and does not realize his role in the call-up procedure in the enlarged Foreign and Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e1157	It may have been a strange answer to a strange question, but we've been in dialogue with the Stortinget to find a meeting date. I brought with me e-mails from February 11 where the dialogue has really been good, as I have understood it. What has been the issue behind was based on a follow-up on national threat assessment, which we have had the intention to present to the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence in line with what I said. So I got a follow-up question from the reporter in the NRK who said something like that: Anniken Huitfeldt says she has not received anything in her calendar that suggests that it is due to a meeting. That's when I say: ‘That must well be the problem of Anniken Huitfeldt.’ So I don't give the manager any responsibility for anything related to dialogue or lack of dialogue about the timing of meetings, etc. My constitutional responsibility extends widely, but it does not include Huitfeldt's calendar.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e1169	It is well here that the Minister of Justice and Defence misunderstands quite fundamentally what is the relationship between magnification and government on these issues. The office regrets to the Secretariat of Stortinget that it has not been called in despite having asked for a meeting for two months. It is very clear in Stortingen’s Rules of Procedure that it is signed to convene a meeting at the request of the Minister of Justice and Defence. And the blame on my calendar is relatively healthy. So my question is whether the Minister of Justice and Security will complain to me, just as his office has complained to the Secretariat of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e1174	I think the representative Huitfeldt is quite selective in the information she now shares with Stortinget. I can read from an e-mail sent from Stortinget to us, where it is, among other things. is the following about this discussion: during late winter/spring it may be natural, to give this presentation – my remark – since no equivalent was given in the autumn due to the choice. So I think we should first be clear that it is important – and I fully agree with Huitfeldt’s representative – that there is a good dialogue between the department and the Stortinget on how to work to ensure that the Stortinget gets the information it needs. I am concerned that dialogue should be as good as possible. We all have learning points in any such setting, and I am very concerned that in the future we will have a good and clear relationship with both the head of the enlarged Foreign and Defence Committee and, of course, the enlarged Foreign and Defence Committee as such. We have to do what we can to help ensure that dialogue is clear and good in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e1185	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: ‘In Norway, the Food Safety Authority of the new Animal Welfare Act has been given new tasks to ensure animal welfare, carry out inspections, prevent and intervene in notifications of animal abuse and neglect, etc. In the public debate, it can sometimes be quite misleading when the department responsible for monitoring animal welfare in Norway is called the Food Authority. The same is true when people are looking for websites, etc. Have the Governments assessed whether the name of the Food Authority is appropriate in the light of the new task spectrum?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e1194	Food supervision has now existed as a supervisory seat for more than 10 years. Ever since its establishment, the Danish Food Authority has had a broad supervisory portfolio along the entire production chain, from soil and fjord to table. From the first day the supervisory tasks covered animal welfare supervision, both for farmed animals and for sports and family animals. There have been no fundamental changes here. The entry into force of new animal welfare laws in 2010 introduced a general warning obligation to improve the knowledge of the authorities about abuse and serious animal diseases. In addition, the Food Safety Authority was given several new tools to effectively follow up on regulatory violations. The Food Authority has introduced its own warning button on its website where the public, among others, may report animal welfare problems and be used. According to the Annual Report of the Food Authority, the Food Authority received 5,932 concerns about animal welfare in 2013. I myself have recently been with the Food Safety Authority on an animal welfare supervision and am concerned that the Food Safety Authority prioritises this important area. In particular, I have asked the Food Safety Authority to be more out there and carry out more, but I would like to facilitate supervision, in order to better detect animal husbandry that needs closer follow-up. The Danish Food Safety Authority reports that during the ten years of existence of the plant, they have been mentioned in approx. 150,000 media cases in the Norwegian press. Very many of these things are about animal welfare. It is my experience that the Food Authority today is well known to the general population, and I am sure that most animal owners know that it is the Food Authority that supervises animal welfare in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e1211	Thank you very much for your answer. That was a good reason for how the Food Safety Authority works, that they're doing a solid job. What has been my problem when in the public debate I am going to convince the population – where there are more and more people who are engaged in animal welfare and are worried about the neglect of, for example, the lack of food. domestic animals or other animals that report different types of violence, abuse or other things that happen – that we have a good public system for this – are the concept of ‘food supervision’, which is quite difficult when, for example: shall take care of the pusicates of people and be sure that they are properly cared for in the event of a risk of abuse. For my part, it is as a contribution to what the Council of State was looking for – namely, to make sure that we have a good system – that I have raised this question. So I thought it was a little strange that the Council of State wouldn't give it about whether the name is good enough, a thought.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e1220	I fully agree with the representative, Mr Bøhler, that it is important for everyone who is concerned with animal welfare – and especially politicians who are responsible for both legislation and the exercise of it – that we talk about this in public and make the most of the arrangements in place. I know that the police and the Food and Drug Administration have put in place a new system in which the police in all the police districts will have a person to follow up and be able to be contacted if there are animal welfare issues. I am quite clear that this is something that we should of course work with to get even better at, but that it works relatively well. It is arranged in such a way that if an applicant for e.g.: ‘animal welfare’ on Google, the Food Authority.com is one of the first to come up. These words are at least the link to each other in the context of an online application, as many people do.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e1229	Thank you again for your new reply. The government is concerned — at least it has signaled it in many contexts — with good communication with the population. It shall be simple and comprehensible in language and shall be clearly and easily accessible. I was in the election campaign in several debates with the Progress Party, and one wanted an animal police instead of the Food Authority. When I was going to explain that the Food Safety Authority was good enough, and that we didn't need the Advancement Party's proposal on a separate animal police force, it was just having an understandable description of those who are working on this, as I felt as a problem in that communication. From my side, this was intended as a advice and a contribution to a simpler communication around it that we have a reassuring work to care for animal welfare. I hope – I have no further questions – that the Council of State has included this reasoning. I think it would greatly facilitate communication if a different name was used, possibly a sub-chapter in the Food Safety Authority where it was the term used in the communication about this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e1238	The most important thing is at least to ensure that we have a service that works after the intention, and that does a real job in terms of animal welfare. So far – based on what I've been getting involved in now – the Food Authority is doing a good job, but there are of course ever new challenges in the field of animal welfare. I'm concerned that we're going to communicate this in a good way, and of course we'll follow this closely. But just the fact that in this period it has been approx. 150 000 notices on the Food Authority, where most are concerned with animal welfare, suggest that the public focus makes the Food Authority relatively well-known among the population. But we have to follow this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e1245	Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-05.ana.ud2593e1258	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
