i-Ua3uRHYbkvDmvHBw31QECd	Madam President, I would like Jimmy Ståhl has asked me what the government and I are doing to move freight to inland shipping. Jimmy Ståhl has also asked me what the government and I are doing to increase the share of maritime transport and reduce long-distance road transport. I choose to respond to the interpellations in a context. One of the government's most important priorities is to accelerate the pace of climate change. We invest in infrastructure both on land and at sea. It strengthens the competitiveness of Swedish exports as well as imports, and it drives the green industrial revolution. The Government is actively working to promote the transfer of goods transport from road to shipping. Examples are the national freight transport strategy, which was the first of its kind, the eco-bonus, an extended and extended eco-bonus, the appointment of a maritime coordinator and more designated inland waterways. Under this government, the Swedish Maritime Administration has also been provided with historically large resources, and Swedish shipping companies have been supported by temporarily adapted maritime support during the pandemic. In addition, the company has invested in a variety of investments for shipping, such as capacity-enhancing measures in the port of Gothenburg and Luleå harbour as well as new locks in Trollhätte Canal and Södertälje. All these investments will strengthen the competitiveness of shipping. I note that, with all these efforts, the government is taking great responsibility for shipping.
i-Wdgwzr3uLPbXQRurvHx4Lu	Madam President, I would like Many thanks to Tomas Eneroth, who has answered the questions! I am also grateful that Mr Tomas has chosen to merge the interpellations in order to save time in the Chamber. They were quite obedient. Investing in infrastructure is both good and important. New locks in Södertälje and Trollhättan are of course good. The locks in Trollhättan, however, have been in terrible condition for a very long time. They are, in fact, already living in overtime and are a major enabler for future shipping. Had the locks not been changed and had it not been built new it would not have been possible to have any shipping at all between Gothenburg and Vänern. However, 2030 is an absolute deadline for the survival of these locks, and it is time to get them in place. I hope that it will be possible to do so within the time limit set. For example, if Vänern had started shipping down to Gothenburg, it would have been possible to relieve road transport with nearly 50 000 truck units that could have been moved to shipping. There are great potentials. The problem is often the cost. It's too expensive, that's all. You could say that trucks are too cheap, but that is to be taken up in view of today's prices. The different modes of transport have their different solutions and possibilities. In Mälaren, for example, Södertäljeslussen is very important. But we have other problems. We have a bridge, Hjulstabron, which places limitations on the other side and prevents the new Vänermax ships that could be built by a bridge built in 1953. A new bridge would have been around 800 million. It's big money, I know, but to keep the Wheelsta Bridge alive, the cost lies between 100 and 400 million – a bridge that you later have to tear down anyway. I was also going to go into a little bit of the regulation for inland waterways that was introduced in 2014 and that is not updated by barge traffic but is based on IMO traffic. I know we have a national coordinator looking at this with protected waters and more, but I think that the Minister should perhaps also allow the maritime coordinator to look at the regulations so that we can both facilitate and enable too much more barge traffic, get cost efficiency and see if we can have a starting model for barge traffic to get it started. The Minister is well aware that attempts have been made to get traffic started between Nynäshamn and Mälarhamnarna, which could have relieved road transport somewhat. The problem is again the costs. The costs of the Maritime Administration, Madam President, took 46 per cent of the transport. This was a transport that could take place twice a week, but it was only one trip because of the price.
i-N3fakfSuQWwThVSjqhbNTc	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jimmy Ståhl, for the commitment! It is important, because this is a journey that we have made in Sweden in recent years: to rediscover shipping, to see its potential and to realise that it is underused and could be used for so much more. This was one of the reasons why we both launched the freight transport strategy and developed a national coordinator to highlight the potential and opportunities of shipping. I myself chose to give priority to shipping to an extent that has not been seen before with regard to national plans. Although it was a small percentage, one can say that it was a doubling of the investments when we got the port of Gothenburg, Luleå port or for that matter the investments in locks. I believe that it will be a combination, Madam President, of what Jimmy Ståhl mentions, to find financial incentives, and to increase knowledge and break old traditions of how we transport. I say this in part in the light of listening to both the current and the previous national coordinator. It is about opening up new roads and also breaking traditions and seeing the potential of shipping, for example through eco-bonus and extended eco-bonus and by protecting shipping from excessive increases in fairway charges. Otherwise, the Swedish Maritime Administration has been properly underfunded for a long time. These have been important efforts to strengthen Swedish shipping. I do not rule out the need to move forward. Trays are a relatively new phenomenon in Sweden. We do not have that tradition and perhaps not the same conditions as they have in Germany or in Holland. However, we have looked at the experience from there and see that there are opportunities here too to increase that traffic. At the same time, there will always be some object or bet that can be even better if you just spend a billion more on improving the conditions. This is the great dilemma of the government and should perhaps be the dilemma of the opposition to a greater extent, because we must give priority in a day-to-day situation and a situation in which we get, and will have, more resources than ever on Sweden's military defence and to equip Sweden for the reception of people fleeing from war and crisis. After the pandemic, we also have high levels of ambition in terms of ensuring resources for health care and other parts. Nevertheless, we are putting almost 900 billion into infrastructure investments, which is more than ever before. That's it. These will be tough priorities. The wheel bridge, to comment on it, I am well acquainted with. I myself lifted the object into a national plan in 2018 and now look at the basis and discussion of how we can improve the conditions for the entire shipping in the area through the reconstruction or a new bridge connection. The government will present its position when we present the national plan, which will be at the beginning of June. Much is therefore going on, although there will certainly be a long list of things that both Jimmy Ståhl, the nutrition and many others want to do. Nevertheless, I am proud to say that we are doing more than ever in the maritime sector. Having a national coordinator and a freight transport strategy, making eco-bonus and even twice now convening all the ports of the country and bringing together port policy as national are important steps to strengthen shipping. We have also tripled research into shipping and multiplied efforts in national planes. So very good is done, and I think we should be proud of that.
i-YAzQwyA5m489TVg5rWc2HQ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. I cannot deny that bets are being made; they are being made. I have to admit, I thought the first eco-bonus was catastrophic. It was like a blow in the air. The second, a little more extended ecobonus is better. The seafaring people appreciate it much more than the first. The problem I see, Madam President, is that this too is temporary money for shipping. I would have liked to have seen more long-term money that shipping can take on to build a future and feel secure. Of course, our world is changing. The war in our neighbouring countries means that aid needs to be redirected. But these are not new issues that are affected by the war, but the money is set aside before, for example, in national planes. It is also not only shipping freight that needs to be touched on, but also port issues. When it comes to land-based infrastructure planning, priority is given to passenger transport. It must arrive in time. The people who are being transported are, of course, the ones who on election day actually choose who is in government, while freight transport has to remain in the woods and wait until the tracks are free. Ports have a reverse distribution. There you only look at freight and volumes to figure out what support and opportunities you should be able to give to ports. This means that passenger transport has to stand back, as is shown in cities that have a fairly large influx of passenger cars, such as Ystad and Trelleborg. It is difficult to remove traffic via better roads. For example, the E65 in Ystad is a huge problem. I therefore believe that we must aim for the whole and think all the way about shipping. In southern Sweden, where there is a lot of transport and we could have got up a lot of freight by rail, we have single tracks into the ports. This means that it is difficult for the goods to get into and by prioritising passenger traffic, such as Påga Trains, which is by the way an excellent traffic down in Skåneland. This also means that the ability to transport freight volumes by rail to ports is very small, which makes it difficult to get more goods out on the sea. I would have liked more resources to have been put there and also on the roads, because we still have a lot of rolling goods. By making this possible, it was also possible to shorten lead times and increase the attractiveness of handling the goods on the lake. Madam President, I would like My question, therefore, is whether the Minister, now that he has national planes in his lap, has thought about trying to redistribute in any case a little to the road sections around the ports and possibly make it easier for the city dwellers there.
i-CCQpR22wFyeXB8e3wQiHf7	Madam President, I would like It is interesting what Jimmy Ståhl says about space to redistribute, for example, to a little road in Trelleborg or somewhere else on the development grant in the national plan. I have a lot easier to do that than Jimmy Ståhl, the Christian Democrats or the Moderates have, parties that want to dramatically reduce the funding for the development of the infrastructure sector. The Moderates propose a saving of 30 billion and the Christian Democrats a saving of 50 billion. I am not quite sure about the Swedish Democrats, but since the Swedish Democrats support the Moderates and the Christian Democrats and want such a government, there will be less money for new infrastructure. That's where you want to cut back. This means less money to expand the railway in Skåne, despite the fact that Fehmarn Belt is being built and that the pressure on the infrastructure in Skåne both on road and rail will increase. This also means less money for, for example, investments around Trelleborg or elsewhere. It is on the development grant that we put resources for fairway depths for Gothenburg or Luleå harbour, and that is where we invest in developing the Trollhätte project or the locks in Södertälje. That's where we build new infrastructure. However, Jimmy Ståhl, and above all the Christian Democrats and the Moderates who have clarified themselves, wants to remove money from national planes. Let us therefore hope that the framework that we have is that which applies in the future and that, should the accident occur, a change of government does not mean that there will be reduced resources for infrastructure as in the case of previously moderated governments. Because we have to build more. There are more of us in Sweden. We have a green industrial revolution which means that we have to get even faster at getting the goods out not least from all battery plants that grow up or for that matter Hybrid and steel without coal in northern Sweden. That is why the pressure on infrastructure investment is so great now. We can back down a little bit until the alliance government existed. At that time, everyone wanted infrastructure investments as compensation for industrial closures. It was the Trollhätte Package and other things. Now it's different. Now they want infrastructure investments because Sweden is doing so well, because we have large industrial investments and because more needs to be done. It is a good sign of our industrial policy, so if we are to pursue what Jimmy Ståhl is now calling for in the form of more efforts, it is probably necessary that we continue to have a social democratic-led government. Nevertheless, I would like to take this opportunity to say that a great deal is also happening internationally and in Europe, which is to be welcomed. We recently took a Clydebank declaration that means that we will get green corridors and work for it internationally. It is therefore not only Swedish shipping that makes it sustainable, but also international shipping. Especially in these times, it can mean opening up new roads for goods to be transported both around our coasts and internationally. Then we can relieve not only aviation, but the roads and the railways, because that is what we need to do. The counter-question to Jimmy Ståhl is: Are you prepared to spend more resources on infrastructure? If so, it will be difficult to cooperate with the Christian Democrats and the Moderates. Nevertheless, I understand that the most important thing for the Swedish Democrats at this time is to ensure that Ulf Kristersson becomes Prime Minister. Well, I guess it's him you're supposed to make demands. To date, and after several debates, I have not yet received an example of a demand list from the Swedish Democrats to the Moderates. This means that Ulf Kristersson will be able to continue not to invest in infrastructure and reduce the level of ambition, whatever Jimmy Ståhl says – or?
i-Pnpv55kicWFUWcMeqarRn2	Madam President, I would like I can say this to Tomas Eneroth: V i has no ambition to lower the funds for infrastructure – quite the contrary. Then it is quite right that priority must be given. We Swedish democrats have raised a great many motions in which we set great priorities. We want to fix, improve and expand what we already have. That's exactly what I've been talking about. We want to build double tracks where there are single tracks, and we want to build four tracks where it is needed and where today there are bottlenecks on the double tracks. We want to streamline and make perrons longer. And we want to make the roads more accessible. It's not about new roads. We are improving what already exists. On the other hand, we do not want to spend 300 billion on a prestige project for rail which is constantly being increased. We want to increase the accessibility of ordinary people, and we want to increase the accessibility of goods. We will stand by that. As for who should be the next prime minister, we fight for Jimmie Åkesson and no one else.
i-LuYD8CGNhNEvft3H6SnLbH	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the clarification. It is clear that the most important thing for the Swedish Democrats is to ensure that they cooperate with the Moderates and Christian Democrats. This will mean a reduction in the level of ambition in terms of infrastructure. It was read out a wish list. It is expected to be financed by SEK 300 billion, as it sounds now, but in national planes it is SEK 107 billion for what is called new main rails for high-speed trains. These are investments on the routes Gothenburg– Borås and Lund– Hässleholm and Ostlänken. I take it that Jimmy Ståhl and the Swedish Democrats think it is investments that do not need to be made. But I know that the regions are very concerned about it. Gothenburg – Borås is a terrible railway route today. The coast-to-coast track runs for 40 kilometres an hour. It really needs to be rebuilt and expanded. And on the 40th floor, it's full. When the Fehmarn Belt connection down in Denmark is built, the pressure on the Öresund Bridge will be very large. Then we must strengthen the infrastructure in southern Sweden and in Skåne. That's why we're building a new track there. You can't try to blow up any more tracks where the South Main Line goes. There is a need for proper unloading, not least in order for freight traffic to be able to accommodate and provide space for more regional commuting in the Skåne region and in southern Sweden. Then there is Ostlinken, which is an important link between Linköping, Norrköping and Nyköping. The Swedish Democrats obviously want to say that it is not important, even though the region has worked for this for so long and thinks it is very important for the whole of Östergötland and for that matter also for Sörmland. I think it is important that we clarify it before an election movement, although the given circumstances will certainly be different. It is a clear choice; should we dare to invest in new infrastructure, or should we just try to poke up the old and lower the level of ambition. Apparently, that's the alternative.
i-JGTz5qcNxwfHhvZroMWyxP	Madam President, I would like Jimmy Ståhl has asked me if I and the government have the ambition to increase the proportion of Swedish flagged ships and what we will do to achieve this. The government wants to increase the pace of climate change, and part of this work is about moving freight transport from road to shipping in order to reduce the climate impact of the transport sector. In this way, we can also strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish maritime transport, which contributes to more Swedish flagged ships. Following the Government's proposal in the budget proposal for 2022, the eco-bonus was extended and extended to a total of SEK 300 million to promote the transfer of goods transport from road to rail and shipping. In 2020 and 2021, the Swedish Maritime Administration received contributions to mitigate the effects of the pandemic of SEK 430 million. In addition to these efforts, the Government proposed in the budget proposal for 2022 the introduction of climate compensation for shipping of SEK 300 million per year for 2023 and 2024 and SEK 220 million for investments in, among other things, boat, ship and helicopter fleets. An additional 45 million a year will be used to start the transition towards a fossil-free boat and fleet. The National Coordinator for Domestic and Short Sea Shipping has recently been commissioned by the Government to engage in a dialogue with the Swedish Ports and the Swedish Maritime Administration with the aim of achieving equivalent environmental and climate management incentives in port and fairway charges. At the same time, the Government commissioned Statskontoret to investigate the Swedish Maritime Administration's form of operations and funding in order to propose an organisation and funding that enables effective governance towards transport policy and climate policy. In addition, in order for Swedish shipping to remain strong after the pandemic, the government has decided, in addition to the general financial support that meets the shipping industry, on temporary adapted maritime support. So far, the state has supported the shipping companies with SEK 75 million. These are examples of initiatives that strengthen Swedish maritime competitiveness while at the same time increasing the pace of climate change.
i-7MZc3ebYzMTT1wkPrynDNz	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth for his reply. In my question to Minister of Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth, I asked whether the government has the ambition to increase the proportion of Swedish flagged ships. From the Minister's reply, I can see that we want to reduce the climate impact on transport, which is a good thing. But the government, according to the answer, has no solutions to how to get more Swedish flagged ships. At least I missed it in the answer. The government hopes it'll work out anyway. It doesn't. The problem is that it is an international market. It is therefore necessary to ensure that Swedish shipping has the same rules and conditions if they are to be able to cope with being in such a market. On the basis of the previous debate, we can also see, when the war comes closer, the importance of having Swedish ships over which you can take command to send troops or other supplies. We cannot do that with ships that do not have a Swedish flag. Swedish Maritime Transport and the Blue Growth Strategy have several suggestions on how to make it easier to get more Swedish flagged ships. Through more Swedish flagged ships it will be a better environment, because Swedish shipowners are investing heavily in a good environment. It also provides increased tax revenues and generates more jobs both on land and at sea. We must not forget that Swedish Maritime Transport also enables those who want to become sailors of the future to get internships on board. Madam President, I would like Nor should we forget that seamen who want to land have great opportunities to get good jobs, for example in shortage jobs as pilots or as new teachers to train the next generation of seafarers. Maritime transport is not only a freight carrier, it is also a pleasure industry and a tourism transporter that creates growth in large parts of Sweden. It is about everything from chefs to serving staff, cleaners and skippers. It provides quite a lot of new jobs. I will soon have the opportunity to travel on a hypermodern ship, Viking Glory, which runs the Baltic Sea between Stockholm and Turku in Finland via Åland. The construction of Viking Glory has focused on energy optimisation and environmentally friendly solutions. This means that this ship consumes 10% less fuel even though it is larger. It counts as one of the world's most energy efficient ships. Unfortunately, this ship will have a Finnish flag, not a Swedish flag. Madam President, I would like I ask the Minister again: what are the solutions proposed by the government and the Minister to get more ships with a Swedish flag?
i-ARBM4bX5aWZDM86CXLPGiU	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jimmy Ståhl, for the commitment! I think it's important and I appreciate it. I think I explained very clearly how we are working to increase the proportion of flagged ships in Sweden, and in a longer perspective we have succeeded. The Tonnage tax was a very important part, which was longed for. It was a Social Democratic-led government that made this change, along with all the efforts I read out in my reply. I still want to be a little brazen and ask a counter-question. For example, the last budget reservation of the Moderates, Christian Democrats and Sweden Democrats does not mention shipping with a single word. In the Swedish Democrats' own budget movement, no major investments are made in shipping. So when you are given the opportunity to formulate yourself, there is no effort on shipping. There is a reason why I am raising this issue, Madam President. I can appreciate Jimmy Ståhl's commitment to shipping, with good evidence from the shipping industry and so on, or colleagues to Jimmy Ståhl who highlights other transport sectors with in many cases good proposals, but one thing should be remembered. What difference does this make when the result, if you vote for Jimmy Ståhl and the Swedish Democrats, is that we get a moderate-led government that has no ambition whatsoever to spend more money on shipping? This is the hard part of the challenge. As I understand it, there are no demands from the Swedish Democrats on the Moderates to improve shipping or other parts of the transport area. I haven't seen any. They cancel Blanco for Ulf Kristersson to become Prime Minister but do not really know what influence they will have. I find this troubling. What is known is that, under a Social Democratic-led government, greater efforts have been made than ever on infrastructure. It is under a Social Democratic-led government that tonnage tax has been introduced. We have promoted shipping, introduced eco-bonus and set up a maritime coordinator. We provide increased support to the Swedish Maritime Administration. We have ensured that shipping is promoted in a way that has not been done before. We lift important objects into the national plan with fairway depths in both Luleå and Gothenburg and the project for locks in Trollhättan and Södertälje. In this way we strengthen Swedish shipping. This helps make it more attractive to flag into Sweden. Then it is just as Jimmy Ståhl says a tough international competition, as surely everyone who works with these issues knows. The Pandemin may not have put a wet blanket over this, but it has been very difficult conditions for the entire shipping in terms of both in- and out-flag. Unfortunately, I am concerned that the situation we are seeing in the future will also create some challenges in the field of maritime transport. About 15% of international maritime workers are either Russian or Ukrainian. Everyone understands that what is happening now poses some challenges. I believe that a great many Ukrainian sailors want to go home and fight for their country and defend their freedom. And the sanctions imposed as a result of Putin's invasion will also affect the way shipping develops. Let us ensure that we continue to have a social democratic-led government. This means that we know that important efforts will be made on shipping and infrastructure. But of course many good proposals are being put forward, and of course they are important. I have a good and well-functioning collaboration with the industry. Many of these proposals are incorporated into government policy. Some proposals must be given priority because other things are more important at the moment.
i-8xyfoaa2dtpm4oVWYRhEH	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. If we are now going to enter an electoral movement, I can say that if you choose to vote for the Social Democrats, you are prepared to pay the world's highest energy prices and fuel prices. But you don't know what you're getting either, because it changes. The thing is that I can promise that we Swedish democrats will work for shipping. Tomas Eneroth and the government introduced Swedish tonnage tax in 2017. We were promised that the tonnage tax would be evaluated after a while. Time has passed, and I have not seen any evaluation. That is why I sent a written question to Mikael Damberg to hear when an evaluation of tonnage tax has been planned. In reply I was told that far too few, Tomas Eneroth, had joined the tonnage tax to make an evaluation. If you ask the government to introduce a tonnage tax that will strengthen the industry internationally but still choose not to enter the tonnage tax system, I do not feel that you need to be a member of Mensa in order to understand that this is important to evaluate. Why don't they go into the system when they've asked for it? It would have been interesting to find out what Tomas Eneroth answers to that. Maybe I can give you a little answer. The international tonnage tax system is good, but in Sweden we are not taking advantage of the opportunities offered within the EU. We have a worse model for tonnage tax, which is why it is not attractive. As I said, it would have been fun to see the answers if you evaluated this. For example, we could have introduced incentives that include coastal traffic. We could also have ensured that special shipping is included. We could also have made it easier for Swedish shipping companies to be part of the tonnage tax system. It should also be borne in mind that when introducing the tonnage tax, it was chosen to pay for it by reducing the net model. This means that you take your right hand and give with your left. They didn't really get anything. Maybe they got a little bonus, but at the same time a punch. In shipping, therefore, you are not very happy with this. We need to look at this and do it again and do it right. We need to extend the system so that tonnage taxation is fully exploited in the way that the EU allows. We need to restore the net model to 100%. We need to abolish the stamp duty and replace it with an administrative charge, a stamp charge. It is a major barrier to new ships becoming Swedish. Mobility can also be facilitated by introducing the Bareboat charter proposal.
i-XnDZGTdguDXEUgZb2574AR	Madam President, I would like Thanks again, Jimmy Ståhl, for the commitment! I think it's important. Several of the proposals are those which, as I have said, we have implemented. I note that there are a great many young people in the gallery. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to say something in the midst of all the hundreds of millions of investments we are making with changes in the tonnage tax system – I do not rule out that we will have to evaluate it. It's important, but I think we need to let it go for a while before we do an evaluation. It is important in itself to meet new challenges. One thing is important in the future if shipping is to survive. It is that you can recruit, and right now Swedish shipping has huge challenges. For many are reluctant to work at sea. When I meet the employers, they say that the supply of skills is difficult. Then I usually bring up the figure of 2%. In maritime transport, 2% of employees are women. If you constantly recruit one sex and do not see that you need to use the creativity and skills of the entire population, you obviously have skills supply problems. Why are there so few women? It's about tradition and sometimes bad leadership. Sometimes you don't see how the work environment works. There is a great deal that could be done to increase the attractiveness of shipping. We need to work on this much more. I take the opportunity to say this now that we have many in the gallery, because it would be good if more people went to Swedish shipping. Together with modern leadership, modern workplaces and perhaps modern working conditions, this would give more vitality. Shipping is changing. It is digitized and automated. There is now a rapid technological development with fully automated discharges and loads. It's an exciting development. Let us hope that this will strengthen Swedish maritime competitiveness. If we are to compare with other modes of transport, Sweden's competitiveness is increased by increasing the use of technology and digitalisation. Here are shipping companies such as Stena and Wallenius at the forefront. When Stena launches its Elektra, a fully electric vessel that will go between Gothenburg and Fredrikshamn, the whole world's gaze is directed towards Swedish shipping. It will be attractive. This applies when Wallenius, among other things, is supported by the research money I mentioned earlier that the government has set aside to develop its investment in increased wind power. Even sails on modern ships are used to reduce fuel consumption. That is something that I hope will attract more people to go to sea. Surely we will ensure that we create good economic conditions for shipping. The government will continue to do so unhinderedly. I do not rule out the need to carry out both further analyses and evaluations of the systems that we have put in the sea. Rarely has so much happened during this time in the field of shipping, not least with Pia Berglund's fantastic work. She is now the successor in national maritime coordination with all port meetings, eco-bonus investments and the major investments that exist. I understand that it raises hope and desire for even more bets. That is, of course, important. I also understand that the opposition is now waking up and seeing that we here are going to talk even more about shipping. That is also gratifying. Let us see that for a couple of years now we have had a completely different optimism and belief in the future in Swedish shipping. It is important because the pandemic created major challenges. The world situation today will create major challenges. Then we will be there, support and help but also push.
i-PAc8QQodvNsZqZY1MVF8EG	Madam President, I would like This is exactly what I'm talking about, Tomas Eneroth. We need Swedish ships in order for our future young people to have somewhere to be able to practice and even train. I think it's really positive. Taking up old figures, the Swedish fleet decreased from 254 in 2001 to 89 vessels in 2016. It was really heavy. In 2017, it turned, and more ships were flagged in. I was there myself when Tomas Eneroth was involved in the opening of the 100th ship. Then there was optimism and a belief in the future. But since then nothing has happened, Madam President. We're about the same number of ships, around the hundred mark. When I was going to googling a little bit, I found an old article from 2014, when there was really faith in the future from the Swedish Redare Association. At the time, however, there was another government, and the Social Democrats just took over this autumn. Then they had a great faith in the future. They believed that by 2020 they could have 400 Swedish-flagged ships and over 1,000 Swedish-controlled vessels. But we haven't gotten there. I know Tomas Eneroth is a maritime friend. Can't we promise to stick together and try to drive shipping where we want it? It is about increasing and strengthening Swedish attractiveness and increasing jobs at sea for our young people. We must have a genuine future at sea too.
i-8NdcJSuwqnX8fiG3i5SEra	Madam President, I would like That's absolutely right. We must ensure that there is a future for shipping. It is not least about the next generation feeling that they want to work there. Guys and girls should feel that it is a future workplace and an exciting development. An important part of this is also to talk about why we want to invest in shipping. I want to do this as a social democrat because it is one of the crucial elements in meeting the climate targets. It is a question of complying with the Paris Agreement and achieving the objectives that we have set ourselves and being able to change so that the transport sector's climate emissions are reduced by 70%. If we in Sweden are to reach net zero in 2045 and cope with the earth and the climate, we must make sure that the transport sector is changed. It is about electrification of cars, trucks and buses. It is important to ensure that flights switch with biofuels and perhaps electric flights in the long term. Maritime transport, which is already relatively climate-smart, is an incredibly important part of this. That is why we are now working intensively to speed up the conversion of shipping itself, because it can be even better. This applies to everything from Elektra's electric ferries to Wallenius' investment in wind or, for that matter, new types of fuels that have very low or no climate impact. Of course it's the challenge. I believe that this will mean that more people want to go to sea. What we are going to say to those who want to help save the climate is: Bring your creativity and knowledge into the transport sector. That is where we need that thought and creativity in order for the transport sector to change. Swedish Shipping, aviation and the automotive industry want that as well. Sweden is now re-entering the board of the IMO. We ran for office now and were elected to the last General Assembly. This means that not only here in Sweden but now internationally we have the opportunity to influence shipping. There, a voice is needed for a green transition and a stronger shipping. That voice is Sweden.
i-EERM7vkjUfRU3zcp6iUWc1	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me if I intend to work for the government to investigate the status of Skövde Airport in order to make it a national emergency airport. The Government has previously commissioned the Swedish Transport Administration to investigate the existing system with ten regular emergency airports in order to provide evidence to assess the efficiency, functionality and effectiveness of the current system and to propose possible changes. The Swedish Transport Administration's reports related to the mission from June 2021 have been sent out for a broad consultation until 23 March 2022. It is, of course, important to take note of the views of the consultation bodies before we proceed with the questions about how the emergency airport system might be changed, not least in the light of the experience gained during the pandemic. The statistics we have learned about the response and importance of emergency airports during the pandemic clearly show how important these airports are. In conclusion, I would like to stress the need for an efficient, functional and efficient system to meet the various needs of socially important air transport, regardless of the time of day, for example for ambulances, rescue services, fire-fighting and total defence.
i-6yfvqeD5b2Khw9TfyPdg4P	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. Emergency airports play an extremely important role in our society. Skövde airport is centrally located between two large lakes, Lake Vänern and Lake Vättern. In addition, we also have quite extensive defence activities in the area. Skövde airport is also part of the police's operational activities. We remember what it was like when the fires raged up in Västmanland and Dalarna and how important emergency airports were in order to effectively combat the fires. The shorter the time spent to refuel the efforts you have in the air, the better. If you put down Skövde airport, there will be a lot of empty flights, if you put it that way, to go and refuel. Valuable time is spent just to fly for a short while in the area where you are looking for something or extinguishing fires. If you look at how Skövde is located and what airports are around you can see that there is a lot of flying time just to service the aircraft. If we're talking about police operations, that flight is extremely important. It is often used to search for people who have lost their way. Although it has nothing to do with traffic control, I myself have been out in the woods looking for children or mushroom pickers. We also know that time is one's worst enemy. If it's cold outside and bad weather, you need to find these people very quickly so they simply don't freeze to death. I have also talked to the police aircraft about a completely different matter. Then Skövde airport came up. The important point in police intervention is Skövde airport. It would be fatal if a municipal decision had an impact on as many municipalities in Skaraborg and the preparedness that you can have with the airport. In Skaraborg, we also have the Western Main Line that goes right through. There are many transports of dangerous goods. Now we have been spared from some major accidents on the track. But you never know when the accident will happen, and then you need to have both equipment and crew in place very quickly. There, aviation is superior when it comes to transporting personnel and equipment to an accident-stricken area. It would therefore be unfortunate if Skövde airport were to disappear as a standby airport. It has that status today. However, the Municipality of Skövde has decided to close the airport, which is very strange given the central function it has in our preparedness. Now we are not going to talk about military operations given what is happening around us, but we can take a call out in the chamber foyer then so that we can discuss the importance of the airport in that business. Or the government can talk to its colleague in the Ministry of Defense. We have an enormous amount of activity in this area, and we need the airport to strengthen our preparedness.
i-LHvriBJsDVxKZXUiNZuryn	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Morell, for your commitment! Our airport infrastructure is important; not least, the pandemic has shown this. For those who follow the debate, it may be good to know that we normally have ten emergency airports in the country, that is, airports to which we pay extra government money so that they will always be there. It's about ambulance flights, fire planes and other unforeseen events. I have set up an investigation that has been reported and is now being consulted, where the Swedish Transport Administration has proposed that we increase the number of emergency airports. It was also my starting point when I set up the investigation, because I think it may be necessary. My direct experience comes from the storm Gudrun, where we saw how incredibly important the flight was in order to produce materials that enabled us to fix power lines and blown up communities when railway and road were blocked by fallen trees. The same experiences have many others of the fires of some summers ago, for example, when one saw how important it was to have fire flying capacity. That is why the government has opened up more emergency airports. But then came the pandemic and the need for transportation, not least ambulance flights, of patients and medical personnel. This was in a position when the flight had it at its toughest. Air travel still has a tough time, and this applies not least to airports. Almost all the flights stood still during the pandemic. The commercial operators, the private aircraft, closed down. They could not fly because no one got or had the opportunity to fly. At that time we entered from the government with public service obligations, which secured socially important flights in the country up to Norrland and between Gotland and the mainland. We have also ensured proper and comprehensive support for regional airports and state airports. We also set up temporary standby airports, and more specifically there were 27 — a major expansion compared to the existing 10. 18 got the offer, but an airport turned it down. It was, funny enough, the privately owned airport. But all the municipal airports accepted the offer. This has meant that during the pandemic we have had a completely different level of preparedness with the possibility of ambulance flights and fire flights. I think that experience is important to take with us now that we are going to consider how many emergency airports we need in the future. Then, of course, everything from MSB, police and rescue services to healthcare's different needs will be included in the assessment before the government finally lands in a proposal on how many emergency airports we will have in the future. But there is no doubt that Sweden needs more emergency airports. That is my starting point, and that is why the discussion has now been so important from the basis that the Swedish Transport Administration has developed.
i-HwR89BmCpfUvi839FpogX1	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. Nevertheless, I am pleased that the Government is reasoning that we need to have more emergency airports. You have to look at the operation of the standby airport. It's a bit like having an insurance policy: It's not always you need it, but it's very good to have when something happens. If we take a helicopter perspective and see what it looks like and where the airports are, we will see that there will be a white spot in Skaraborg. We have a problem with the rapid deployment of life-saving measures. This saving lives must never have a price tag, but must be prepared so that society can always save lives. In Skaraborg, just across the forest from the airport, is one of the larger hospitals in Västra Götaland. There are a lot of ambulance flights to Skövde for that very reason. Either you fly the patients up here to Stockholm for specialist care or you take them to the hospital. Just before I went to this Chamber, I received a message from my cousin from Messenger. This has nothing to do with Skövde, but this is up in Norrland. He has undergone a change of heart, and it is thanks to the ambulance flight he is alive at all. Right now he's at Umeå hospital. This shows how important it is that we have a contingency airport that works. It should be able to help people who find themselves in a situation where prompt medical attention is needed. It is needed when we are going to have resources in the air to put out fires, when the police are going to look for people who have lost their way or when they are in the air to hunt criminals. Then the contingency airports must be located so that they are efficient and so that we have a good function throughout the country. Now we do not have to look so far away to see what is happening around us with the war in Ukraine. Then it becomes even stranger when a municipality can make a decision to close a well-functioning airport. If I'm not completely cycling, I think it's even the last built airport in Sweden and it has the highest technical level. How can we put it down when we have a war literally around the corner and when we need all our resources to increase preparedness in society? We have no idea where this is going, if the war is going to expand, if we need to move troops quickly and so on. In that situation, even the idea of closing a well-functioning airport makes no sense to me. I would like to hear the Minister's answer to this. There is also, of course, a clear focus from the government on increasing defence resources and increasing our capabilities in terms of total defence. If you do this, you go in the opposite direction, especially if you know what it looks like in Skaraborg. One removes an important link in our defence capabilities. The state must be able to demonstrate clearly that this is not good enough. We must ensure the country's preparedness both in peacetime and when we have the surrounding world around us right now because we do not know where that world is going and what resources we need to have to cope with a possible attack.
i-41tJWp9NNVvicE6C8gAU1d	Madam President, I would like I understand that Thomas Morell certainly wants to make some kind of local political score on standing up for Skövde airport. But it is not the Riksdag that is in charge of Skövde airport. It's a municipal airport. If the Swedish Armed Forces have comments on the airport structure, they are included in the processes where this is concerned. When Trafikverket points out which are important emergency airports, Skövde is not involved, so obviously the Trafikverket has not made that assessment either. I am clear that we need more emergency airports. I am prepared to listen to all the arguments. That's what you're supposed to do. But of course I also have incredible respect for the decisions made by the elected and democratically elected representatives in Skövde. I'm not going to take a stand on their decision about the airport. We have many airports in Sweden. It is quite close to airports in Sweden. I believe that what Thomas Morell is missing in this is the development we have, for example, in terms of search and rescue. We have a strong development of drones, which may largely replace a great deal of the reconnaissance flights and the like that have previously required an airport as a starting point. In the case of ambulance flights, the evaluations show that during the pandemic, a small part of the ambulance flight was directly urgent transport. Essentially, it's planned surgery. So it is not lifesaving flights, but flights that are being made for a planned operation. Since you do not have that speciality in the region, you choose to send the patient to a hospital a little further away for the best medical care possible instead of building that speciality yourself. But it's planned surgery. That said, the government's line is clear: we need more emergency airports. In this work we will listen to both Trafikverket's assessments – Trafikverket has its work – and what relevant government agencies, such as MSB, think is important. In this context, I note that the authorities did not emphasise that Skövde airport would be one of the designated airports. However, the government has given the opportunity to create emergency airports, and then Skövde has been one of the emergency airports. I will continue to prepare the base, be so sure, because when we eventually take a position on an increase in the number of emergency airports, it will be with solid material and material. We will listen not only to the Swedish Transport Administration but also to MSB, the regions, the Swedish Armed Forces, the police and others. What is happening is that the state should then expand its commitment. Let us remember that the order we have today is since the time when we had a moderate government in this country. It was then decided that only ten airports should be taken care of and taken responsibility for by the state. They're the standby airports. I have, of course, opened up a debate because I believe that, not least now that we have given aid to regional airports throughout the country, we also need to have more permanent contingency airports. But it also took a Social Democratic-led government to bring about such a development.
i-DKVqoBdMidpegQNJxRvJu6	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. No, I'm not making a local political point of this. I'm just looking at what we need to save lives. What do we need to be strong in the event of an escalation of the war in Ukraine? How are we to move personnel and equipment quickly? If you look at what it looks like in the area where Skövde Airport is located, you will soon see that it plays an extremely important role in our country's preparedness. Skövde airport also plays an extremely important role in being able to take action in the event of a major accident along the West Main Line. There are several trains with dangerous goods rolling through Skaraborg at night. You can only think about what happens at a derailment if you need to have both equipment and staff there quickly but do not have an airport available and get to drive everything on the road. Then you lose a lot of time, valuable time to be able to put in effective efforts to tackle, for example, a chlorine spill or something else. When it comes to medical transportation, the helicopter, the ambulance helicopter, is lifesaving. In Skövde, to take it as an example, the helicopter cannot land out at the hospital with less than that the equipment at the airport is running if the weather is bad. If it's nice weather, it's no trouble, because then they can fly visually. But if it is fog or heavy snowfall, they will not reach the hospital, but in that case they will have to go down in Jönköping or Örebro and drive on the road. It cannot be saved by saving lives or strengthening the country's preparedness. You have to be clear about that. Here the government actually has the opportunity to point with the whole hand and say that we need this to ensure those very functions.
i-AgyiXSGCBJXb4Fvs18NHYr	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell's own thoughts about the needs of the Swedish total defense may, as I said, be Thomas Morell's own thoughts. I have respect for that, but I choose to listen to what is the assessments of the Swedish Armed Forces, the Swedish Transport Administration and MSB when we will eventually take a stand. It is those who work professionally to see what needs, for example, the Swedish Armed Forces have. Let me make one thing clear, and that's the government's line. We need a better alert. This has been the starting point in these years, not least in the area of infrastructure, where we have invested in maintaining the capacity of aviation. When the market failed, we procured air services with public service obligations. When the regional airports – and the state – had concerns as a result of a sharp decline in air traffic during the pandemic, we provided resources. In order to secure socially important transport, we have contributed more money to the usual emergency airports but also established no less than 27 temporary emergency airports. I think it shows that we take responsibility for ensuring that we have that capacity, and that is important. When we are going to look at emergency airports in the future, we have now received a good basis that is being consulted for a little while longer. Before the government takes a stand, I can assure you that it is self-evident that we are looking at the needs of total defence and not least bringing in the new environment we have with both pandemics and increased uncertainty in our surrounding world. It goes without saying that the government takes such responsibility.
i-GDMbFSJLZi3rDLZo7tVsyW	Madam President, I would like Eric Palmqvist has asked me several questions about reduced speed limits on roads. All of Sweden will live and grow. The government has made investments throughout the country to make it possible to live and live both in the city and in the countryside. Being able to live and work in rural areas and have a good life is not just a matter of speed limits, which Eric Palmqvist might want to reduce it to. It is about good accessibility, the presence of public services, the quality of road standards and the functioning of transport infrastructure. This government has invested historic sums in order for the whole country to live and to speed up the climate transition and create the jobs of the future. The reduced speed limits risk increasing travel times and thus making it more difficult for people to get to work and leisure activities, not least in sparsely populated and rural areas. The Government decided in February to repeal some of the Swedish Transport Administration's speed reductions and returned the cases to the Ministry for further consideration. The Finnish Transport Agency should try other measures to increase road safety in a way that does not affect people's ability to get to work and other activities negatively.
i-QKWc8Cm4rkduTRSpHBTbE3	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister Eneroth for his reply. It is of course grateful that the Minister for Infrastructure initially agrees with me that the whole of Sweden should live and grow. I think we would have had a very different position on the matter in a completely different debate. There is, of course, no political dividing line. Nor is it any claim that the issue of reducing speed limits on our national roads would be the sole salutary issue of whether people and businesses should be able to live, live and operate in rural areas under favourable conditions. Madam President, I would like I may be terrible at juggling, but I am able to hold more than one thought in my head at the same time. To suggest that I want to reduce the everyday challenges of rural people to just dealing with speed limits is, in a sense, indicative of a kind of underestimation of the commitment of other politicians, in this case mine, to the issues of rural development. It's unpretty, but it's on me. It's the government's responsibility. The fact that the conditions for entrepreneurship and housing in the more sparsely populated parts of the country are largely about good accessibility, public service in attendance, access to commercial services, broadband expansion before the dismantling of copper networks and a functioning road infrastructure have been highlighted in both debates in this House and in a number of committee motions. The Minister is happy to read and draw inspiration from them. They are available on Parliament's website. But now it is not the report on regional development that we are going to debate today, but it is the negative impact of reduced speeds on the conditions of companies and people in Sweden's more sparsely populated areas. Madam President, I would like The Minister for Infrastructure is a Kronoberger and thus comes from a county that is actually rural, I think even sparsely populated. I thought I'd come back to it in my next post and link it to my own reflections, but before I do that I jump to something else. The Minister's reply, which we could read just now, pointed out that the Government had taken the initiative to lift some of the Swedish Transport Administration's decided speed reductions in February 2022. This is a circumstance which I, albeit in other terms, illustrate in my interpellation. The current cases have been returned to the Finnish Transport Administration, which has been asked to try other road safety-enhancing measures instead. Good. But the concern remains that this was just a conversion under the gallows. My question to the Minister, Madam President, is this a fundamental decision of the government, which means that we will not see the Finnish Transport Administration proposing similar major speed reductions in other parts of the country in the near future? Or should we consider it an individual decision that came about after massive criticism from local and regional politicians with the same party book as the Minister for Economic Affairs?
i-5qPtEc5PxBw1MjyXMzk3uq	Madam President, I would like I had to take part in this debate, because the roads are something that interests me. I note that in the answer given to my party colleague by the Government, this government has invested historical sums in order for the whole country to live and to speed up the climate transition and create the jobs of the future. This may be the case, but the Finnish Transport Administration itself writes that the road network will be worse in 2033 than it is today. In addition, research has been carried out into the consequences of the speed reductions. This report states that the Swedes have spent 2.53 million more hours in cars per year between 2011 and 2020 as a result of the Swedish Transport Administration's speed reductions. The socio-economic costs are SEK 1 billion per year. It is quite a lot of money that society has to pay for the fact that the roads are not good enough. What, then, is the significance of lowering from 90 to 80, for example? Well, the maintenance requirement is lower for an 80-way than for a 90-way. It is therefore an easy way for the Finnish Transport Administration to save money. You change signs from 90 to 80, and you don't have to take much more action on that road. Nor is there any analysis to show whether the speed reductions have actually saved human lives. They have only been cut off to avoid having to pay so much for maintenance, but there has been no analysis of whether it actually saves human lives. The report states that the reductions do not even hit the right road network. It is on the narrow, curvy 50-70 roads and at intersections where the speed limit is already less than 90 that most fatal accidents occur. So the analysis has been crazyly landed and the wrong measures have been taken. Yesterday I met a number of truck owners up in Dalarna, and even the ambulance was actually there. We talked about the road that goes between Sälen and Mora. Why, then, is it interesting? Well, when people who are up skiing and breaking a leg or otherwise injuring themselves on the ski slopes, the ambulance must give more morphine for patients to make the journey to the hospital in Mora. The road is so poor and so poorly maintained that patients must be given extra morphine to cope with the transport. Then something's really bad. On top of this, they must be treated for motion sickness. I got a report today, but I haven't had a chance to read it. It may become the basis for a new interpellation of what influences in such a situation. There must be action and clear governance here. We need more resources to maintain the roads. It must not be epa variants like changing signs from 90 to 80, but you must get out with machines and make sure that the road is navigable.
i-FmF1R9j9xLvJkM3Mum4txb	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the interpellation. I think it is important to remember one thing before we go into the details of the speed issue. Sweden is the world's best in road safety. This is something we should be very proud of. We have for a long time in Sweden dramatically reduced the number of people killed and injured in traffic. We have done so thanks to the zero vision, a systematic effort to have the right speed on the roads, the right design of the infrastructure and a vehicle industry – I myself come from there – as a priority for safety. It is clear that this has contributed to the fact that Sweden is now one of the countries in the world that people are looking at when it comes to road safety. The question of speed limits has been tough, you have to say. I can tell you that a drop from 90 to 80 kilometres per hour means that the risk of being killed in an accident is reduced by 40%. A reduction from 90 to 80 also means that the journey time is extended by 50 seconds per mile. This means that when traffic experts and many others say that it is important to reduce the speed of a certain distance, they do so on the clear basis that it actually saves lives. That was one of the reasons why in 2012 the bourgeois government commissioned the Finnish Transport Administration to look at this. Can we slow down on some roads and have the right speed? The Finnish Transport Agency has done extensive work with both increasing the speed of several roads and lowering the speed of others. My starting point has been to try to ensure that we increase accessibility but maintain safety. We chose from the government's side to spend extra money, not least in national planes, so that both state roads and county roads could set up central railings. This meant that a road with a speed limit of 90 got 100 kilometers per hour. There was no oncoming traffic, so mortality was greatly reduced. That was an important priority. All in all, we have spent huge sums of money on this, to help municipalities and regions increase road safety. The second signal is to look at whether the infrastructure can be designed in any other way to increase safety. There has been a discussion on this in many regions and municipalities, with many appeals. When Trafikverket came with a number of objects made up of really long distances, I said that it was not reasonable to reduce the speed of very long distances, with the inconvenience it entails for residents, both at home in my dear Kronoberg – I note that Eric knew about this – and, of course, in other parts of the country. The reason why this is important is that we must not jeopardise the commitment to zero vision work. Swedish people like road safety initiatives, think it's good that there are speed cameras and want traffic to be safe. You get annoyed at road users who violate the speed rules. It is clear, however, that we must also respect the fact that on long, important commuting routes where many people drive daily, not least in rural areas, it can mean considerably increased travel times. It can affect the tourism industry but also the residents. Then we must look at other measures than simply reducing speed limits. In addition, the historically great efforts on the roads in this country are being made. We've never spent as much money on our roads as we do now. However, one concern is that the costs of road maintenance have never increased as much as they do now. One can argue why-- there are many reasons. But I don't accept a situation where we don't get as much bang for the money as before. We need more efficient road maintenance.
i-2kBKt6MbjiGixwbzMjdsSP	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Infrastructure, for your answer. Road safety work is quite complex. The fact that we have low mortality on our Swedish roads may not only depend on the standard of the road network, but one should also consider the fact that Swedes generally have larger cars, which are somewhat safer than the small ones in Central Europe. We also have fairly sparse traffic in large parts of the hinterland, which reduces the risk of, for example, meeting accidents. I would like to return to the fact that Tomas Eneroth comes from Kronoberg County and reason on that. Kronoberg County is one of the counties in southern Sweden that are relatively sparsely populated. Without knowing Eneroth's background in detail, I imagine that he has been active in local politics and has probably spent many hours behind the wheel on his way to and from various meetings in his own constituency. For I have done so in my political deed. I would therefore like to think somewhere that he understands this issue from a self-perceived perspective. Otherwise, I can help him along a little with reflections from my own constituency Norrbotten. I live in Gällivare. North of my municipality is Kiruna. To take the car from Kiruna to the county's largest city, Luleå, means a trip of more than 35 mil. Turn and turn, it's 70 miles. It may sound incredible in the ears of many when I say that it is not at all unusual for us who live up there to drive down to the coast and back over the day to go to the doctor at Sunderby Hospital, to look at SHL hockey, if you like me cheer at Luleå Hockey, to turn in the car for service at a brand workshop or whatever we intend to do. Madam President, I would like Such a journey, as most people understand, takes quite a long time, but we who live up there have, in a way, learned to live with it. However, when one begins to talk about general reductions in speed limits, people are concerned, because in my small example just now, a drop from 100 to 80 means that the journey will be more than an hour and three 15 minutes longer. If we then count off some villages and short distances of meeting separation, we may be talking about a waste of time of about an hour and a half. I and many with me do not think that is acceptable. Now perhaps a friend of order thinks this is an extreme example, but let me take another one: someone who lives in Jokkmokk and who commutes to Gällivare, ten miles in each direction, to work. It's not unusual at all. I myself had several such colleagues at my old workplace. They would lose half an hour every day, two and a half hours a week, ten hours a month. Here's the thing. It's our reality. Sweden is an elongated country, one of Europe's largest to the surface and indeed one of the most sparsely populated. Ensuring a good and modern road infrastructure with those conditions is a tough challenge– I think we can be something like that when we agree on it. I also hope that we can agree on the extent of the maintenance debt. I even think that the Minister and I can agree fairly that it will be a long time before all the country's roads are separated, whether you rule the country on a blue-yellow budget or if you do so in a social democratic one. The Minister's answer in all honour and the good ambitions and great words in spite of – new road infrastructure does not fall from the sky just like that. And waiting for roads to be renovated, people are living with concern that speeds will be lowered and that they will have longer travel times. I wonder what the Minister for Infrastructure has to say to them.
i-K1yogQanxHqLdqUDBDM87	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. Road safety has been an important part of my professional activity, and I am perhaps the only one in this Chamber, at least right now, who has seen the consequences of road accidents. I've been sitting on the edge of the ditch, comforting people who've just been through the worst thing in the world. It's not about accepting that people drive faster than is allowed. It is about having a standard on the roads that is acceptable. It must not be the case that the Swedish Transport Administration makes an epase solution and lowers the speed from 90 to 80 kilometres just to be able to reduce the maintenance of the road. That means more road accidents as an absolute consequence. When you talk to people who work in ambulance care who tell you that they have to give patients more morphine to make the journey to the hospital, your hair is right up your neck. One can only imagine what work environment it is for those who sit with the patient in the ambulance. They will help anyone who is injured and is busy staying in place in the car. We have to make sure we have a road network that is up to the mark. The fact that more money has now been spent on maintenance is good, but it is not enough. It is stated in the infrastructure plan, which the Swedish Transport Administration has written, that we will have a worse road network in 2033 than we have today. Here it is important to focus on what is a real problem and not to spend money on something that is ready at some point at 2047, as the high-speed train is. Instead, use that money to ensure that the infrastructure we have is navigable and above all safe!
i-2Pa1DnBBi4MN7eC33igKmn	Madam President, I would like You can sometimes get the impression that, according to Thomas Morell, it would be best if we refrain from re-investing and only entertain the old things we have. The Swedish Democrats, as you know, do not want new main courses. And if I have understood correctly, they want to reduce the allocation for new infrastructure. But we need to be able to do several things. If we are to meet the climate requirements, if we are to be able to reduce transport emissions by 70 per cent by 2030, we should be able to switch so that more people and more goods travel by rail or by sea and if we are to electrify the transport sector, we must have the advice and space to invest in what is new and what are new important developments in Swedish infrastructure. We are a growing population, and more industrial investment is being made in Sweden than perhaps ever, thanks to a successful job policy. Despite this, we have scope with the large budget of 900 billion for infrastructure, the largest ever, to spend resources on maintaining the quality of the road network, making important road safety efforts and, not least, ensuring that roads in rural areas – at home in my Kronoberg – get improved standards. What is important to remember – I say this in a situation where we spend more money than ever on road maintenance – is that the cost of road maintenance has increased by almost 60-70%, more than the cost of housing, industrial investment or anything else. I'm not going to accept that. Here we must have a completely different control of costs. What makes it all of a sudden in these years so much more expensive to build, maintain and maintain roads? It is almost the same development on the railway side. Is there a lack of competition? Is that the rule of law? Is that the procurement structure? Something is. We are now attacking this hard from the government with a number of missions and analyses. It is not always just about more money, it is also about making sure that the money ends up where it is going, that is, in improved standards on the roads. There's more investment in roads than ever in Kronoberg and in other parts of the country – it's definitely up in Gällivare – because we're now shooting at more resources. We invest in BK4, increased bearing capacity for heavy transport. We are committed to improving road standards, not least by setting up central railings, and to reducing the mortality of traffic. It has been a successful way of working since the 70s. Then there were 1,300 dead in traffic. Now it's under 200. I think we should be proud of the development of the automotive industry, the traffic know-how we actually have in Sweden and the involvement behind the zero vision. In fact, it is – I would like to say to the interpeller – that how we design infrastructure largely determines the outcome of the accidents. I take the opportunity to Mass a little bit about the zero vision when some people listen. We are human beings, and sometimes we do wrong. Zero vision is based on you being able to make mistakes. If you drive in a safe Volvo, you should be able to make mistakes and still survive. It is based on the existence of central railings or the fact that it is a design of the infrastructure that makes it safe. The speed should be properly adjusted so that a moment's error does not mean that you die. That's the starting point of the zero vision, and that's what we need to have with us. When we talk about the fact that we do not want to see reduced speeds on long commuting distances, it is important that the Swedish Transport Administration carries with it a discussion about how we can otherwise maintain road safety, for example. How can the infrastructure be designed so that we get fewer injured and killed in traffic in the future?
i-7DEa7Dtyx3Ewz45dyfcZ1H	Madam President, I would like The issue of the design of the traffic space is, in fact, an issue on which I am also working locally. I tend to push that question when we talk about speed reductions in the municipality: that one should adapt the traffic space according to the prevailing circumstances. I note that we are quite in agreement. In this debate, it may sound like the differences are greater than they actually are. However, I cannot help but reflect on one thing, Madam President, and that is the view of the importance of time and what it is worth in different parts of the country. The Minister will perhaps protest when I mix the traffic law in the debate, but I think the example has a bearing on it. To shorten the journey time between Helsingborg and Gothenburg by six minutes, almost SEK 11 billion was ploughed down into Hallandsåsen, with the 2008 monetary value. In order for the debate to be reasonably honest, it should be added that at the same time it increased to double track capacity and that railway construction is much more expensive than building roads, but it still points to how in some contexts one is prepared to go almost as far as possible to shorten travel times while elsewhere it has to go to wild protests from companies as well as citizens and politicians in order to avoid having significantly longer travel times. Therefore, I wonder: Is the time of rural people less worth than that of the metropolitan regions?
i-Wv7QNPxhyYQeSqAhRD7afc	Madam President, I would like The answer to that question is, from one who comes from Kosta which is a small community in the middle of Småland with 800 inhabitants, unambiguously no. Time is just as important to everyone. It is just as important for those commuting to work as for those who are going to rush through Stockholm and who commute to work there. We must respect that. This means different types of investment that can increase accessibility but also that you need to make good choices. What we should remember about rail investment is that the railway, not least when it has got a double track, is incredibly capable. The efforts made, whether Hallandsåsen or other parts, dramatically relieve road traffic. That is one of the reasons why I am so keen to establish new main courses. I think some of you remember when there was a strike at the port of Gothenburg. Then there were a lot of trucks along the E6 and also along the E22. It was full of trucks down in Skåne and out towards Öresundsbron. Now it worked out with the capacity in the ports, and the business started in Gothenburg, but if we do not build more rail in the future, it is about such a development we risk getting on the roads in southern Sweden. If we do not move more goods from road to rail and if we do not ensure that we can use the shipping more, there will be a traffic attack in Skåne when the Fehmarn Belt connection is built. This is one of the reasons why we from the government have worked on both new main routes, securing the capacity of the ferries at Trelleborg and seeing if we can get a Helsingborg – Helsingör connection – to relieve, create redundancy and create a reasonable situation. Some transport can be made more efficient and important work done there, but some transport will always be needed. Let's make sure we use the infrastructure as smartly as possible. Thank you for a good debate!
i-XfZsFAF6eFyyVRVMJNFT5x	Madam President, I would like Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson has asked me whether I intend to act to bring the E18 into the national plan. There are many important and urgent measures in the transport infrastructure to be implemented around the country. Last spring, the government presented an infrastructure bill with the largest financial framework ever for transport infrastructure measures. The Parliament then made decisions in accordance with the Government's proposal. In total, the framework is estimated to amount to SEK 881 billion during the upcoming planning period 2022 – 2033. I can see that the Swedish Transport Administration has never had so much money for the transport infrastructure before. I also note that the Christian Democrats proposed SEK 50 billion less than the government to expand new infrastructure. The Government recently received the Swedish Transport Administration's proposal for a national plan for 2022 – 2033. The proposal has now been consulted, and we have received comments from, among others, industry and civil society, but also from municipalities and regions. What the final plan will look like, the government plans to make decisions in the spring of 2022.
i-8xS4YmawQMWBzbcpwfXMSL	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Infrastructure, for your answer. I note some vomit in the answer. I have not thought of this as a debate where we should stand and hit each other in the head with numbers. We could do that – for example, the Christian Democrats were the party that spent the most money on road maintenance. We put more than the government. However, this is not the kind of debate that I have asked to have with the Minister today, but rather perhaps it is a matter of praying for my sick mother. I note that there has been a substantial increase in investment in infrastructure. At the same time, like Trafikverket, I note that the scope for new investments is very limited due to generally increased costs and that new main roads are to be financed within the plan framework. In particular, the costs of new main routes have increased significantly. Nor will the funds be sufficient for operation and maintenance to maintain today's functions throughout the road and rail network. This is particularly true of the low-traffic roads and railways, which are mainly located in sparsely populated areas, and as a result, it is again sparsely populated areas that are most affected. The Minister for Infrastructure and I have previously had both a written exchange of questions and a debate in this House on the reclassification of individual roads. It is again rural areas that are being affected by the withdrawal of economic opportunities. As things stand at present, therefore, today's function will not be maintained, and this means that heavy traffic will not be able to operate on routes and roads in the same way as hitherto at the end of the planning period. That is an unreasonable and unacceptable consequence. Within the Christian Democrats, the idea of stewardship is a key element. It should be here, too. One obvious priority should be to care for what you have – it is pure capital destruction not to do so – and then develop existing infrastructure before investing in new core routes if the funds are not sufficient for both. So to the part that I specifically highlighted, namely the E18 that goes through my own municipality of residence Årjäng. The E18 between Valnäs and Töcksfors is an eight-mile stretch along the main road between Oslo and Stockholm. On these 80 miles, the road is two-lane – and this is the main road between our two capitals. On the Norwegian side, the road between the national border and Oslo will soon be extended to either two-plus-one road or motorway all the way from the border to the centre of Oslo. On the Swedish side we have this 50-mile stretch, which is one of Värmland's most unfortunate routes with many serious meeting accidents. The question of extending the road on the Swedish side should be a matter of political national interest to bring our countries closer together, not least after the pandemic challenges where we see the wounds that have been created between our countries. In addition to saving lives and suffering, it would also be a symbolic act to link our countries together again. In a first step, the government should at least take a position on the question of those parts of the road that are absolutely the worst. We could also add a change of track on Fryksdalsbanan, which has been present before but which is now not included, and a double track on Värmlandsbanan where we have Sweden's most loaded single track. Region Värmland has produced a response to the referral, and the Minister has received it. It is not only the region that has responded, but from the region all the municipal councillors, all the regional councillors and everyone on the Värmland bench – regardless of party affiliation – have also protested in a letter to the government. So the unity is complete.
i-SJdnELX4Wg6qSYfRtrwxxf	Madam President, I would like I share the view that after the pandemic it is perhaps more important than ever to strengthen transport opportunities between Sweden and Norway and our other neighbouring countries. It was a sad period when we closed the borders. I have also had good discussions with the new Minister for Transport in Norway, Jon-Ivar, about urgent projects. We'll meet in the future. It is clear that there are quite a few projects between Sweden and Norway that we have to consider. It's about Stockholm – Oslo, of course. We also have Gothenburg – Oslo. We have the road connections – here are some examples mentioned – and we have a similar situation on the railway side where we electrified the middle track from the Swedish side up to the bridge over the Great Hell while Meråkerbanan on the Norwegian side is not yet electrified. Of course, we also have Ofotenbanan and Malmbanan, which is an important industrial route for the Norwegian fishing industry and especially for the Swedish ore industry. There, the government has already pointed out, not least, reinforcements on Malmbanan as important in the future. I think it is important that we have a well-functioning Swedish-Norwegian not only communication but also a strategy for how we strengthen freight transport opportunities. I carry this with me in the work on national plans. The comments from Värmland are well known. In many parts of the country, greater regional cooperation was brought together and priorities were set. Värmland chose to set its own priorities, and I listened attentively to them. That's a lot of priorities. As in the county plans, priorities will be tough. In the same way as Värmland politicians within the framework of the plan they have themselves will face some tough positions, this will of course also be the case for the government. That's it. It's nothing new. It is a luxury and a headache that all the infrastructure ministers have had as long as we have had this planning process. That is precisely why it is important to listen to what is socially profitable, what is important to increase accessibility, what is important to signal city and country. I come from a county that in some parts is like Värmland, namely Kronoberg, and I see the benefits of both strengthening the roads for the forest industry and at the same time increasing regional work commuting. This, together with ensuring that we are able to cope with climate change, is important. It is highlighted repeatedly from some representatives that we should stop the efforts at Gothenburg– Borås, Lund– Hässleholm and Ostlänken. I find it difficult to see such a solution. These efforts are crucial for these regions, for Skåne's development, with the risk there for traffic attacks, for the Gothenburg region, which really needs the Gothenburg– Borås route, or for Linköping, Norrköping and Nyköping's regional and national development. The Christian Democrats clearly say that they want to spend SEK 50 billion less on new infrastructure, and they also point out these routes. It's still a little remarkable. Even warmers would benefit and benefit from the fact that it is invested in the Gothenburg – Borås section, or that there is not a traffic attack in Skåne – often it is transport from Skåne that is going up through Sweden – or for the part that Östergötland transport works well. I usually say as a minor myself that the investment in Norrbotniabanan is one of the more important investments. Not only do I look where I live, but I also look at what is nationally important for Sweden's climate change transition, accessibility and competitiveness. This approach is also reflected in many of the referrals. I appreciate that because that is how we in Sweden should jointly make decisions: What is best for the whole of Sweden when we now spend nearly 900 billion on infrastructure?
i-42WDKe3s5E1YLrfhpmxxCM	Madam President, I would like It is great that the Minister has discussions with his Norwegian colleague. Although this debate does not deal with this issue, I would nevertheless like to take this opportunity to highlight the total agreement in the Nordic Council to cooperate on infrastructure. It is extremely important to increase mobility in the Nordic region, build the Nordic region together so that we become even tighter. We cannot just look at the areas in which we ourselves live, but I am quite clear that we need to look at the whole. But I note that Värmland has historically had to stand back for other investments around the country. About 80 per cent of the investment funds go to metropolitan areas despite the fact that 50 per cent of the population still live and work in other parts of Sweden. The heavy base industry is largely located outside the metropolitan areas and is important for the growth of Sweden as a whole. It is the backbone of the country's economy, and the basic industry has special demands for a robust, capable and reliable infrastructure to be competitive in a global market. In these thawing times we can see what the roads look like in me in Värmland or in Kronoberg. Of course it is exceptional this time of year, but there is a lot of wood to be run out and needed for the conversion to non-fossil. But the timber does not come out because the roads are closed because they are not navigable. The Finnish Transport Administration has said that we will live with this, that there will be more such roads. Heavy traffic may be banned on certain routes permanently or at different times of the year, such as during frosting. In addition, we see the discussions that the Minister for Infrastructure has had in the past with colleagues on reduced speeds, namely the choice of reducing speeds rather than upgrading the roads. If the roof leaks, put out more buckets instead of fixing the roof. It's going to be very strange. We need to nurture and develop what we have when the funds are not enough for both. The Minister addressed the county plans. I would like to ask you a specific question. What are the criteria on which the funds for the county plans are allocated across the country? The funds for the county transport plans are set out in the Government's directive for action plans, but without there being a justification for the distribution between the different counties. From a transparent point of view, the funds appear to be allocated according to the number of inhabitants in each county. This means that a small densely populated county receives quite a lot of money. A county like Värmland, which is large with long distances but with a small population, receives significantly less money even though we would need more money precisely because the county is so much larger. It'll be a misallocation. I would like answers from the Government as to what the criteria are.
i-KL9j129n6YxMrcs1aRxDVf	Madam President, I would like I say this because the last question has been asked many times. I don't really think there's any county that thinks you've got a lot. Everyone thinks it has been given too little, even though it is the biggest framework ever. It belongs to the nature of the matter; that is the way it is when you are a county representative. But everyone also says that their county is affected a little bit extra by the calculation system. It could be the population. In the case of Jämtland, there is some relevance. They have 6% of the country's roads but may only get 1.5% to the roads. In Stockholm they say that you don't have all the roads in the country but the traffic volume is greater than in all other parts of the country. It is always possible to find some parameter that shows that our county in relation to others has been disadvantaged or favored. My view has been that there has been a distribution key for a long time. I do not rule out the need to evaluate it, but I realise that it will be like evaluating the cost compensation system between the municipalities of the country. There is no doubt that this is a tough challenge. My solution is to provide more resources than ever in national planes, nearly 900 billion. The county plans should increase by 8 percent, which means that you get considerably more space. Madam President, I would like This may be where Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson and I differ. You can't just look at what you have. In that case, dreams of the Stockholm – Oslo route would not become a reality, or for that matter Ostlänken or the Gothenburg – Borås route, if you just look at maintaining the infrastructure you already have. We must also realise that Sweden needs new relations and new opportunities. That is why we aim to do both. It is, of course, easier when we have more resources than before. Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson mentioned the bias that exists in national planes; big city versus other parts of the country. I have looked at the study, i.e. national plan for 2010, 2014 and 2018. It is true that for 2010 and 2014, there was an advantage for the metropolitan regions of Gothenburg and Stockholm. The Christian Democrats sat in that government together with the Moderates, the Center Party and the Liberals and made such a distribution. In 2018, the distribution was different. At that time, resources were distributed more evenly throughout the country, and municipal co-financing was also reduced, which is important not least for small municipalities. For us, it was so important to ensure that resources are allocated to the whole country. Then came investments on Norrbotniabanan, Malmbanan, Sydostlinken and investments on the road side throughout the country. That is also the government's starting point this time. We will make sure to invest in the whole country, but when it comes to roads, it is important to ensure that resources are used in the best way. Therefore, a cost increase of 60 - 70% on road maintenance is not acceptable. There, Trafikverket has a tough mission to analyse why the cost of construction or maintenance of roads has become so much more expensive. That's how much small-timer I am so that I want us to save our resources. But I can promise that I will listen to all the views that have come from Värmland and from other parts of the country before we make decisions on national plans. Nevertheless, I hope that Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson agrees with the principles, namely that we will make investments that increase regional labour market spending, increase accessibility in the country so that we get closer to climate change and strengthen competitiveness through better and faster connections not least for the business community.
i-4VipKKFQT93M3jUW8MAoy7	Madam President, I would like The Government of Eneroth is welcome to come up with piers in its speech, but I will not go against them. As I said, it is not the kind of debate I am looking for, that is, we should stand here and hit each other in the head. I would rather have a constructive debate. Should I interpret the Government's answer as that the criteria are based solely on population, or how should I interpret the answer? I do not know if the Minister has seen that a map of Sweden has been produced that has looked at how much money has gone to the different counties and made the different counties larger or smaller thereafter. Countys that have received a lot of money have thus grown and are disproportionately large compared to what they look like on the real map, while other counties have decreased. If you look at the western edge you can hardly see Värmland – it's just a narrow line – so yes, we've really been seduced. We need this money because there is a lot of commuting on the road and very heavy traffic. Unfortunately, we have fatal accidents almost every year. When you now threaten, if you can say so, by slowing down speed, it will take even longer to drive, for example, from Karlstad to Årjäng. We must have people in; there was talk of skills provision in a previous debate, and it is exactly the same here. But taking the trips too long, people choose to quit and take jobs elsewhere. Whether it is the Fryksdalsbanan, Värmlandsbanan, E18 or whatever it is, it is therefore a question of getting a living countryside everywhere. Therefore, this money for what is already very important for the county to continue to operate and live. In addition, it can, as in Värmland, contribute to the transformation of everything that the forest provides.
i-Ahwpp3dVWfxUmBnR9B8WBQ	Madam President, I would like To respond directly to the statement: It is actually more money than ever for what already exists. But it is also more money than ever for the development of new infrastructure. Of course, both will be needed, not least in Värmland. I know Värmland well – I have been very much in the Molkom area because I had my sister living there for a long time, and I feel at home in a county that reminds me of Kronoberg and Småland. I also see the need to strengthen everything from the individual, small roads and the smaller county roads to part of the national strings. Therefore, the county law has increased by 8 per cent. I therefore also appreciate the fact that priorities have now been agreed in Värmland. It is important that the most important strings are identified regionally. Of course, this means that we still have the opportunity to look forward to a national plan with more investment in infrastructure. Let me still say something about that comparison of how much the counties get and complicate it further. It is not only the case that the criteria are used a little differently in different parts of the country because you want to highlight your own strength or indicate why you should get more resources yourself. I have all respect for that, and I am sure I did so when I was a Member of Parliament for Kronoberg County. But we also need to think about and see that major national infrastructure efforts are made over a limited period of time. Should we make a map right now, I think we would see that Östergötland will be the big winner in the coming years, because the East Link is being built there. For a few years, parts of Kronoberg and Blekinge will probably be large with the south-east link being built. This was the case in Skåne when the City Tunnel and the Öresund Bridge were built, and so it will be in Norrbotten and Västerbotten when Norrbotniabanan and Malmbanan are built. This will also be the case if you eventually complete the project Stockholm – Oslo. So it will even out over time, which is my ambition as a social democrat. We're gonna bet all over the country.
i-4kDtBoH3rX46u5PYHJkob5	Madam President, I would like Runar Filer has asked me if I'm prepared to take steps to introduce bullet money on the cormorant. He has also asked me if I see a need for incentives for hunters to strive for the difficult seal hunt. Finally, he has asked me whether I am prepared to take the initiative in introducing money on seals in order to ensure that seal management works. I choose to respond to the interpellations in a context. The cormorant and seal populations and how they are to be managed are important issues. I am aware that fishing can be adversely affected because cormorants and seals can affect fish stocks through their predation and attack catches and damage gear. The Government is committed to a functioning game management system that takes into account the activities and people involved. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has overall national responsibility for the implementation of game management policy, including issues related to the management of cormorants and seal populations. The game administration is regionalised. If justified, the County Administrative Board may, in accordance with the applicable legislation, decide to hunt for protection on cormorants, which today takes place regularly at several county administrative boards. The County Administrative Board may also decide, on the basis of the Hunting Regulation (1987:905), on the right to intervene in the nests of birds or to destroy the eggs of birds. The Government decided on 6 May 2021 to introduce the possibility of a search for shelter on the initiative of individuals. This means that an individual may, under certain conditions, hunt for protection on cormorants without prior authority decision. How this affects the administration and the population is still too early to say. I am following this issue closely and do not rule out the need for further measures to facilitate the management of the cormorant population. In order to contribute to a more ecosystem-based management of seal populations, the Government decided on 22 December 2021 on amendments to the hunting regulation that enables the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to decide on license hunting on grey seals and chubby seals. The government is aware that seal hunting is time consuming and associated with costs for the individual hunter. Nor is it possible for a hunter to sell seal skins or meat, for example, because of the EU ban on trade in seal products. This reduces the incentive to participate in hunting and thus hampers the proper management of seal populations. For this reason, the Government has decided in the regulatory letter for grants distributed by the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management that a maximum of SEK 3 million may be allocated to the county administrative boards to be used for compensation for handling costs for grey seals that are felled with the support of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's decision on protection hunting and license hunting. It has also proposed an aid measure in the future marine, fisheries and aquaculture programme for the period 2022 to 2027, allowing compensation for handling costs of felled seals for protection hunting or licence hunting. On 17 February 2022, the Government decided that the programme proposal should be submitted to the European Commission for approval. The government is also looking at the possibilities of bringing up the issue of lifting the EU ban on trade in seal products on should t but deems it possible to achieve this at present as small.
i-EYAq2GzLgcLqxwhk3vfECG	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for the answers to the questions. I guess we'll start with the elk, which is another name for the cormorant. In fact, Sweden has the most cormorants and cormorants throughout Europe. The Swedish ornithological association made an inventory in 2006 which showed that there were 45 000 nesting couples in Sweden. Only Denmark was nearby, with 40,000 nesting couples and 200,000 individuals. This was 16 years ago, and there have not been so many comprehensive inventories since then more than in various counties, that is, regionally. However, I have seen figures that today there are around 250 000 individuals in the country. At the end of the 1800s there were virtually no joints in Sweden, and in 1975 an inventory made clear that there were 340 pairs in the country. That was before we joined the European Union. There was a type of general hunting in the past, but it was stopped as we joined the EU in 1995. Since then, it has been the Birds Directive that has governed this, and so we must now only hunt for protection. Several groups and organisations in society, as well as parties here in Parliament, believe that there are too many cormorants. The cormorant is, to the present extent, a vermin, as numerous as it is now. The Birds Directive should not protect such a general species as the cormorant, which exists in millions of people around the world. The cormorants consume considerable quantities of fish — cod and other food fish. It hurts the cod. It chops, bites and rips the cod so it becomes unusable to the market. This is a problem for fisheries in general and for coastal fisheries in particular. The cormorant increases sharply in number. According to the County Administrative Board, in 2016 there were over 30 000 cormorants in the Stockholm archipelago alone. The cormorants damage forests and have a corrosive feces that kills all vegetation for years to come. It has a disturbing sound and is smelly. It feels like coming into a chicken house when you come near a cormorant colony; I have visited such out in the archipelago here in Stockholm, so I have seen what the cormorants can do. The cormorant is, as I said, a pest when the number is allowed to grow as unlimited as it has now. It is then a threat, especially to living archipelagos. A doctoral thesis from Turku, from 2016, has shown that the changes in the Baltic Sea environment caused by the joint are similar to the damage caused by man himself, such as eutrophication from agriculture and the reduction of predatory fish. Support for investments in equipment to protect gear and catches is not helpful here, as was the answer given to me by Isabella Lövin when I asked a written question a few years ago. Does the Government not think, therefore, that, given both the fishing industry and the environment, it is high time to look at the issue and bring about an update or derogation from the Birds Directive? This is a 1979 directive. We need a protection rating that is in line with reality today. Nevertheless, it is 43 years since the directive came into being. At that time the couples could be counted in the hundreds, and this does not rhyme with the reality we are living with today. In an open letter to the Directors-General of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the Swedish Agriculture Agency and the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management regarding seal and cormorant problems, the Swedish Fishermen's Producer Organisation, which is Sweden's largest organisation for fishermen and has members from Koster to Kalix, says that there is only one reasonable solution in the short term: to enable hunting for seals and cormorants with shot money as an incentive. This is the only reasonable solution for dealing with this problem in the short term.
i-FRKmCqSy1nY2AiXUvmYK4u	Madam President, I would like The honourable Member is quite right that only the European Commission can change the Birds Directive, which includes the cormorants. The honourable Member is also quite right that the population is far too large. That is why we from the government have done what we can do within the directive currently in place, which includes, for example, hunting for protection. We in the government are working very actively to improve conditions, because we want to see a competitive fisheries industry and strengthen the blue value chain. It is of course important to see that in the future there is still the possibility of small-scale and coastal fishing. We have therefore taken some important decisions in this direction. Among other things, we have commissioned the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management to produce recommendations on fishing regulations in twelve marine protected areas and to produce an in-depth analysis of transferable fishing rights in Swedish fisheries. We have recently commissioned the Swedish Board of Agriculture to analyse and compile so that we can promote today's fish processing. We have also introduced a possibility to hunt for protection on cormorants on the initiative of individuals. This hopefully increases the flexibility of the administration itself. We have not yet been able to see what this particular individual has been giving, but we hope to see later what it has given with regard to the cormorants. This also applies to the licence hunting on grey seals and chubby seals that we have introduced this year. Both I and the honourable Member want to see living seas and a fishing industry that is good both for the good food to come on the table and, at present, for actually raising Swedish preparedness. We have done a great deal with the tools that we have in that, as the honourable Member says, it is the European Commission that has the power to propose amendments to the Birds Directive. So far, it has been stated that the directives are still relevant and effective and that there are no plans to propose any changes, although we can clearly see that the cormorant population is very large.
i-3wyVayVSBFniC1KDX3ssjU	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. SFPO, the largest producer organisation, recommends 3 000 SEK per seal and 1 000 SEK per cormorant, which I think would be reasonable to protect our seas and lakes. This would pay off fairly quickly from a socio-economic point of view. On 23 November 2017, new research was presented in the South East Atlantic that showed that the cormorants take at least as much eel as humans catch. There is fierce competition for fish between humans, cormorants and seals; we know that. This was a study from Stockholm University and SLU that was presented in November 2017. In the debate that the eel is endangered, fishing and hydropower are painted as villains, as the Government knows for sure. Professor Sture Hansson at the Department of Ecology, Environment and Botany at Stockholm University said that we must assume that cormorants eat very much eel. It's no coincidence that through the centuries the cormorants have been called eels– it takes a lot of eel. It is, in my view, a must to try to influence the European Commission in order to bring about an update of the Birds Directive and to work to create incentives for people to make an effort to go out and shoot cormorants. It is also important to facilitate multi-annual protection hunting permits and the use of other hunting and intimidation methods as a complement to hunting and firearms. We would like to advocate the extension of effective methods such as oil rings and dots. Protection hunting on the initiative of individuals is a good thing, but this will not be enough. There are no strong incentives to go out, because this is a very difficult hunt to pursue. The fact that you don't shoot more when you are allowed to do so is because there is a regulatory framework around it. It's not just about going out and shooting, it's about when, where and how and how and how close to a place you get to be. It is therefore not easy and attractive to hunt for protection – nor on the initiative of individuals. It has to go to other alternatives. Does the Government have other options in the back pocket? What I've heard here is a lot of drops in the ocean. If not, what are the Government and Government waiting for? In the Baltic Sea, the situation has passed seriously; it is chaos and disaster, according to the industry and research. This causes considerable economic damage to the fishing industry. One authority points to the other, and attempts are constantly being made to avoid the debt issue. In the same way, politics does. First, the codfish are identified as the great villains. Then, when they are gone, the blame is placed on large-scale herring boats. Nothing will be better if you are handcuffed or because everyone blames each other. Now it's about being brave and listening to the knowledge of industry and research to make wise decisions. What does the government have in its back pocket to solve the situation?
i-HgyNtEqvaBSUH52cTpatar	Madam President, I would like Of course, we in the government are both listening and very wise, but apart from that we are also taking a lot of measures. I told you about some of them. The new marine, fisheries and aquaculture programme, which contains 2 billion, contains measures. We are also making great efforts to strengthen the marine environment, because we know that it is not just the joints that make fish stocks bad. There are a number of measures that we must take. It is also about how we negotiate. The last time I was down negotiating the fishing quotas, it was about the fact that the derogation for fishing for herring in the southern Baltic Sea during the ban on cod fishing period remains. The aim is simply to strengthen fisheries for the future. There are several different ways forward. On March 31, the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management will return to the government with an account of the mission it has had to look at what further fishing regulations can do to create a better stock, so that our children and grandchildren can also enjoy the good fish. I am not ruling out any measures to ensure that there is an increase in fish stocks in Sweden, so that we can eat more of the good fish, prepare more of the good fish and thus be better prepared. When it comes to bullet money, I can tell you that's not exactly the way we usually do it. We usually try first and foremost to ensure that we have a game management that takes care of the game. We are trying to push questions in Europe about, for example, being able to make something out of seal products, etc. That's how we ethically treat it. Shooting money may be one thing, but it is not a problem, I would like to tell the honourable Member. We look at many different measures. Madam President, I would like I believe that the honourable Member and I want exactly the same thing, namely that we should ensure that we have living healthy seas and an increase in fish stocks that is sustainable in the future. We'll be able to eat the good fish. We should be able to have a fishing industry that works. We will thereby also be able to strengthen Sweden's preparedness.
i-WYTnRwExRWC4SZePDRE1n3	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government again for its answer. It's interesting, but there's a lot that needs to be done. There have been a lot of drops in the sea, but it is not enough. One example is Roxen, the second largest lake in Östergötland after Vättern. The cormorant is destroying the lake. An article in Östgöta Correspondenten 2017 shows that the entire ecosystem in the lake is about to be destroyed and that exhaustion is underway. There were 6,000 to 7,000 cormorants there at the time. There is quite a lot in a lake that is still relatively small. Scarves eat half a kilo a day during the summer. That's 3 tons a day in Roxen. It is then understood that the number of fishermen has fallen from eight to one in a short time. According to the report, lots of nitrogen and phosphorus come out of the colonies. It's like a rug of algae on the bottom of the islands. In all other contexts, such impacts are seen as an environmental villain. I'm sure the government knows that, too. As I said, the cormorants have spread inland. Not only the coastal band but also inland lakes are affected nowadays. P4 Gävleborg– Gästrikland and Hälsingland– testifies that camping owners are worried about losing their camping guests; the stench and the scream scare people away from the places. Accommodation is also affected when the cormorants take over the islands and the coastline with their distinctive scent and knock out all vegetation. There will be ghostly islands where no one but the cormorant wants to stay. We have been able to read news from Sörmland, for example, that cormorants start flying into communities and are completely fearless when you try to scare them away. Comparisons have been made with Alfred Hitchcock's classic thriller Birds given the invasion of cormorants as it has become. Nevertheless, does the Government not think that we need to take measures other than those that have been taken?
i-Q4CHumUo1HFh2ohoXJfB5u	Madam President, I would like I share the honourable Member's description of problems and agree with much of what the honourable Member says. We have a problem with cormorants. That is why I am also saying that I am not ruling out any new measures with regard to cormorants. For example, if the Member looks at the congresses of other parties, he can state that the Social Democrats have a strong decision on reducing the number of inter-groups. It should of course be a tribe that is sustainable for Swedish fauna in general and sustainable from a coastal environmental perspective. We're working on it. We have already decided on the measures that I have presented to the honourable Member. We must also see them working and see what they give. But at present, I am not ruling out any new measures.
i-JmFdjgQyhMRyGW91stPtQi	Madam President, I would like Eric Palmqvist has asked the Minister for Economic Affairs how the Minister and the Government see Sweden's rural potential for development with fuel prices that are among the highest in the world. Furthermore, Eric Palmqvist has asked how the Minister and the Government view the conditions for strengthening the attractiveness of rural areas for housing, entrepreneurship and tourism with fuel prices that are among the highest in the world. Finally, Mr Palmqvist has asked what possible compensatory measures the Minister and the Government intend to take with a view to curbing the negative effects of high fuel prices on regional development in Sweden's rural regions. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The prices of petrol and diesel have increased sharply over the past year. There are several reasons for this, but one important reason is Russia's ongoing invasion of Ukraine, which affects fuel prices throughout Europe. The price of crude oil has also risen over time because the demand for fuel has increased as economic activity rises. It is worth noting that no part of the price increase is due to increased fuel taxes. On the contrary, the government has submitted a proposal to Parliament to reduce energy tax on petrol and diesel (prop. 2021/ 22:84). I understand very well that increased fuel prices affect those who live and run businesses in rural areas. At the same time, it is a fact that we need to switch to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector. In sparsely populated areas, the car is likely to remain the most important means of transport. Electrification and sustainable biofuels will be crucial for rural transformation, and the government is taking a number of measures to promote this. However, the conversion must take place in a way that enables the whole of Sweden to participate in it, even those who depend on the car. For this reason, the Swedish parliament has reduced the tax on residents of more than 70 sparsely populated municipalities, on the Government's proposal. There is also a specific reduction in vehicle tax on cars owned by people in sparsely populated areas. In addition, there is investment aid for fuel stations in areas where the service is sparse. The transport subsidy is another instrument to compensate companies for long distances to customers and markets. In addition to this, the Government intends to announce in the next spring's amending budget that we intend to temporarily increase the tax reduction for diesel in soil, forestry and aquaculture activities by SEK 2 per litre in addition to the reduction that already exists today. The Government estimates that approximately 26 000 companies are covered by the reduction. In addition, in the upcoming spring change budget, the government also intends to propose temporary support of a total of SEK 300 million to the poultry and pig sectors as well as to the greenhouse companies. These companies are particularly affected by the high cost situation. The commitment of the Council to rural areas is very high. Efforts to improve the conditions for rural areas in Sweden include a special operation for rural merchants in vulnerable and vulnerable areas, a continued commitment to state presence throughout the country through the establishment of more service offices, and a special effort on the operation and maintenance of roads and railways. The government also invests in further broadband expansion throughout the country, which enables work at a distance and allows more people to live further from their workplace. The proposals in the Strategic Plan for the EU's Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) put about SEK 60 billion for the years 2023 – 2027 to strengthen the competitiveness of agriculture, green change and rural development. In addition to this, it is estimated that around SEK 4.3 billion will be added over the same period to national measures meeting the objectives of the EU's common agricultural policy. This includes funding for broadband and means to promote access to commercial services. The government also implements initiatives aimed directly at rural municipalities to strengthen their capacity to address societal challenges. From 2020 onwards, there is an updated cost adjustment aimed at taking greater account of structural differences between municipalities. The Government has also contributed historically large general government subsidies to the local government sector, and a permanent increase of SEK 22.5 billion during 2019– 2022, of which approximately SEK 18 billion to the municipalities and SEK 4.5 billion to the regions, and a further SEK 31 billion to the municipalities and regions in 2020– 2022, in particular to alleviate the effects of the pandemic. In addition, in the budget proposal for 2022, the government proposed special support for small municipalities in terms of population size of SEK 300 million per year, i.e. 2024. The aid is to be allocated to municipalities with less than 9 000 inhabitants or with the most support via the municipal economic equalisation system. Today we see signs that may be the beginning of a new development. Among other things, there is an extensive green industrial development in northern Sweden linked to fossil-free production. This development is very encouraging.
i-HJPJvzUMTVUHwkS27D569R	Madam President, I would like I thank the Rural Minister, Mr Sätherberg, for his reply, but I am sorry to say that I take note of it with some disappointment. Interpellation debates often have a kind of fundamental consensus, and the political differences lie in the details. However, I believe that today's response actually shows that we have very different approaches to rural conditions. I note that in his reply, the Minister assures me that the government's commitment to rural areas is very great, and somewhere I would like to express my appreciation for it – although I believe that the government is, in many respects, out of its way in its actions in this area. Sweden is an elongated country characterised by large parts of rural areas and a lot of sparsely populated areas. Around our country there is an outstanding innovation force and entrepreneurial spirit. During my years in politics, I have noted that we have good farmers, a modern forest industry, a hypermodern mining industry, a growing tourism industry – if one ignores the negative effects of the coronapandemine – and a wide range of other companies, large and small, operating far beyond the end of SL's route map. There is much to be proud of as a Swede, and there is much to care for. I would like to think that the Minister for Rural Development agrees with me on this. My starting point, however, is that the best way to protect people, businesses and municipalities in the country is to provide them with reasonable conditions from the start. It contributes to ambition, faith in the future and pride. I do not believe in the Social Democratic model of taxing them first until they almost perish and then throw at them crumbs so that they do not fail. I do not believe that in any way that is a sound approach. Rural businesses depend on the availability of labour and functioning communities with public services and commercial services within reach. The municipalities and regions that provide services are also dependent on labour. The people who demand this service, which is often a little worse than that offered in the big cities, need, despite long distances, to have financial conditions to commute both to their jobs and to a rich social life, and then the car is needed. There are no other reasonable alternatives. The unreasonably high fuel prices are now encroaching on people's social lives. Can we afford to visit Grandma this weekend? Can we afford to take the kids to practice? We even see people starting to quit or not looking for jobs that are too expensive to commute to. This can lead to very negative effects on Swedish rural areas if development is not slowed down. At the same time, the Government focuses on mitigating the effects of various grants and support – grants and support that would never have been needed to this extent if a calm policy had been pursued from the outset. Madam President, I would like Does the Minister for Rural Development not share my view that it is better to create reasonable basic conditions for the whole country to live and thrive instead of forcing people down on their knees and allowing them to accept the government's alms?
i-TD29yxnXo19mDnxCVkAXL3	Madam President, I would like I entered this debate because fuel prices are something that engages me. In his reply to my colleague, the Minister says that the prices of petrol and diesel have increased sharply over the past year. There are several reasons for this, but one important reason is Russia's ongoing invasion of Ukraine, which affects fuel prices throughout Europe. ..................................................... This is certainly true, but the big problem we have to deal with is the obligation to reduce it. I was just looking at how much differs in price between Sweden and Denmark. Our price is 24.32 per litre while in Denmark it is 18.45, converted into Swedish kronor. There's a difference of 5, 87. The competitive situation of companies becomes hopeless, and the answer is found in the reduction obligation that has been decided. Our companies, especially those in rural areas, have no chance of making it. I met skiers in Dalarna yesterday, and I often talk to companies in haulage and construction, such as forest contractors. There are companies that at the end of the working day have lost SEK 18 000. So it would have been cheaper to stay at home. It is not possible to have a relationship where companies lose money every time employees go out and work. It can only end in one way – with bankruptcies. In the Business Magazine Anders Robertsson, CEO of Machine Entrepreneurs, says that prices of energy can go up even more and then you go back at the jobs. This is a serious crisis for the industry and we can count on bankruptcies. The average age in the industry is high so it can also be that many choose to end their career now. ..................................................... Then we are in a situation where companies choose to close down. How, then, are we to cope with the expansion of our society? When building roads, building houses and other things, we need both people who do the work and machines, because it was a long time ago that we left the wheelbarrow and the shovel at home. But now fuel prices make it impossible. In rural areas there are a lot of small businesses that are lego-manufacturers for the larger industries. Transport is needed both to obtain their raw materials and to get the finished products to the end customer. But today they can't afford it. I have a good friend who is an animal transporter. He told me that those who have farms with animal production no longer talk about the high price, because the only thing they discuss is when to close down. What happens then? Animal production, agricultural production, etc., takes place in rural areas. We do not see very many barns and grain fields in central Stockholm or Gothenburg. That is why people in rural areas must be able to live and operate so that we have food production and the necessary industrial activities. Then we cannot have the situation we have now.
i-GJC6u74he8XFRMtWN6YL3b	Madam President, I would like Both Members mentioned what is happening right now with Russia's invasion of Ukraine, and the government is working hard to support Ukraine and is also trying to alleviate the effects of this unjust war on Sweden. Let me make a few comments. I agree with Mr Palmqvist that we have different views on a lot. For example, I do not share the views of the Swedish democrats on market solutions. I live in sparsely populated areas and know that market solutions are not the best friend in rural areas when it comes to labour, for example. Training is required, and you have to decide for yourself where and how they should be conducted. The same applies to the pharmacy reform, where the market solution has not benefited rural areas either, and the car test, which was very expensive. I know that the Swedish Democrats stand up for market solutions at all times. But I don't think there are any Swedish democrats living in Sweden's sparsely populated area, because then they would know that market solutions as a model don't work. Instead, a stronger society is needed. I will come to the initiative that the government presented yesterday. In this situation, we cannot rely on Russia or Saudi Arabia for inputs and fuels – it is even more clear – but the government's view is that we should create new green jobs in rural Sweden that Swedish agriculture and forestry can contribute to in the form of more biofuels. We must remove the dependence we have if we are to have the competitiveness that we want in our agriculture. Yesterday the government talked about various initiatives and proposals. In the short term, there will be, among other things, a temporary reduction in taxes on diesel and petrol. There will also be fuel compensation for private individuals who own a car, and it will be 500 SEK extra if you live in Sweden's sparsely populated or rural areas. It is therefore a clear focus on a longer distance. There will also be additional funding for the climate bonus system and an electricity price compensation for what we see in southern Sweden where there is not enough renewable power, which means that the industry is looking to the north. There will also be a reformed travel allowance presented on Thursday. I would like to hear the opinion of the Swedish Democrats there, as the reformed travel allowance is in accordance with the Rural Committee's proposal. I was one of those people on the committee back then. Then you should know that we were united for a whole day, but the next day the Moderates went out and said, "No, we are not standing up because it is distance that applies, but we must also have the time gain." This is the partner of the Swedish Democrats in budget work and other things, and I wonder if they will stand up for it to be a travel deduction that will actually make things better in Sweden's countryside. It will also be a paused reduction obligation at today's level and a mission, in addition to the mission that already exists to the Swedish Energy Agency for a control station when it comes to the reduction obligation, to return already in September to be able to follow how the impact will be. There will also be a paused bnp indexation of fuel taxes. It is thus a wide and large package that meets Sweden's countryside very carefully, perhaps especially the sparsely populated area where you have the longest distances.
i-AYvNWCJi8AHePA9oqsTNab	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Rural Affairs, for your answer. It is easy in such situations to point fingers and criticize without presenting what you want. I therefore intend to briefly outline our proposals in this area, which were presented earlier today. The Swedish Democrats propose that excise duty be reduced permanently by an additional SEK 2 in addition to the 50 cents that have already been decided, something that we intend to go forward with in the spring budget. We also want to permanently reduce the extremely high level of reduction obligation to 5 percent for diesel and 2 percent for petrol, which would give a fuel price that is several SEK lower at pump compared to today. We also want to reduce VAT on fuels to 6% during a transitional period, starting six months, as a result of the ongoing war in Ukraine. All in all, this would lead to a diesel price that is just over SEK 9 lower per litre than today and to the petrol price being reduced by about SEK 6.50 per litre. I believe that these are strong proposals which, unlike government policies, would create completely different conditions for people and businesses in rural areas. The fact that, as the Minister for Rural Development does in his first reply to me, let me say that it is the government that is taking the initiative to reduce taxes on fuel, is a bit unsightly, given that it is a consequence of the blue-yellow budget that the Social Democrats govern against their will. Nor do I think it is fair to say that the high prices are not due to tax increases when the S-MP governments of the past years have implemented a series of tax increases on fuels. Nor do I think it is fair to say that the high fuel prices are due to Putin's war on Ukraine. For has the Social Democratic Government not given up the right to tax Swedish fuels to Putin? More than 60% of what we pay at a pump is actually taxes. Or does the Minister think that it is Putin who has forced the government to enforce the duty of reform, the decision which by far has had the greatest impact on the high fuel prices? The fact is that we are already seeing how extreme fuel prices are hitting farmers and hauliers. We see entrepreneurs closing down businesses, and last night I read about fishermen who set their boats, this in a situation when there is war in Europe, just 100 km away, in a country that is a giant wheat exporter. At this point, the government should understand that few things are as important as increasing our level of self-sufficiency in all sectors by giving the Swedish countryside the best conditions. We are in an exceptional situation where the government should take every given chance to strengthen morals and production throughout the country, but instead it gives us a policy that results in the highest inflation rate in 30 years. It won't hold. With government policy, there will be no room for investment for rural businesses to make a green transition. If it wants to be really bad, there may not even be any companies or people left who can afford to live outside the cities. Madam President, I would like I wonder whether this is a risk that the government is prepared to take or a victim that the government is prepared to do, all in the name of the green changeover.
i-4mv7XRSXwvJUTYXdEm5SE1	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. Right now I received a message from a company in Värmland. We run a small haulage company in Värmland and have an incredibly tough situation for our company to survive. We want to run our own business. We don't have to make a fortune and live a luxury life, but we want a normal, decent life. This came directly from an entrepreneur in the countryside. Yesterday, an animal transporter left his cars because it was not possible to operate. It's a crisis. When we cannot make food production work because it is too expensive to operate, the government must also react. This is not good enough. How will entrepreneurs survive? How are they gonna produce the meat we need when we get to the store? How are they going to produce the milk? And who will transport it to dairies, slaughterhouses and finally to shops, when it is not possible to operate because we have a fuel price in Sweden that is far above the price in our comparable competitor countries? I can't. It's simple math. I only had a four in math. I'm sorry about that, but I can count enough to see it's not working. It is strange that the government consistently says it is Putin's fault. No, it's not. It is the government's decision that has had consequences for our businesses and for people's opportunities to live in rural areas. That's where the government needs to reconsider.
i-92G3bT9zvJgnsoNqqoF5up	Madam President, I would like I am not going to talk about what different grades we had or didn't have, but if you don't believe that Putin's invasion and war against Ukraine means something to the inputs we're discussing here, I think you have to get back on the school bench. We see that prices are increasing throughout Europe. It is not only in Sweden that we are getting increased prices of inputs, but it is happening throughout Europe. It is a tough situation for many sectors, and one of the Members referred to agriculture. That is why, a few weeks ago, we announced a billion of aid in our amending budget, and with the reduction in taxes and the temporary reduction in taxes on diesel and petrol that we presented yesterday, we have gone down to the lowest so-called reduction that we can have in Europe for agriculture in particular. The measures we presented yesterday were a broad palette. I saw on my phone the proposal presented by the Swedish Democrats today, which I believe amounted to SEK 34 billion, while it was announced, at least in the newspaper I read, that there was absolutely no need for any increase in other taxes to finance either this or the defence, but instead to reduce expenditure. Then I have a question for the Swedish Democrats. What is it that the Swedish Democrats want to save in government expenditure? Are those the pensions? Is it the care of the elderly? Is it school? Is that care for the elderly? Is it health care? If you put forward a package of SEK 34 billion and at the same time say that the increase in defence expenditure, which I believe we will decide in broad agreement, does not need to be financed in any new way, you must also be prepared to show what you want to reduce expenditure. I think this would be interesting for the Swedish people to have an answer to. What do you think does not need to be financed in the way that is happening now? There is a war going on, and the government is making many measures to alleviate the effects of the war that Russia has started as they have invaded Ukraine. Not everything can be done, but it tries to alleviate many of the effects that this entails. It is important to try to do as much as you can. That is why yesterday the government presented the temporary reduction in taxes on diesel and petrol. This fuel compensation is aimed even more at those living in Sweden's sparsely populated areas. Additional funds go to the climate bonus system so that we actually also change and do not make us so dependent on the goods on which we cannot control the price at all. Electricity price compensation is extended in southern Sweden. There will also be a temporary increase in housing allowance for families with children so that they can consume the food we want farmers to produce.
i-3e8XcsxrVced5SQxS5Lwub	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Rural Affairs for this. I don't have time to go into our spring budget here. Nor do I have time to respond to what the Minister for Rural Development has mentioned about market solutions or travel deductions. That was not really what the interpellation was about either. I have an article from the Northern Social Democrat with me here today. The headline reads: They live on the last outpost – has 23 km to the city center. The article is about the conditions for the people in the village Saivomuotka between Pajala and Kiruna in my own constituency. It describes the reality in a part of Sweden that I do not know if the Minister for Rural Development has ever visited. I suggest the Minister for Rural Affairs read the article. I would like her to try for a moment to understand the conditions of these people, and I would like the Minister for Rural Development to understand that Saivomuotka is not the only village in Sweden that has a long way to go. I can also mention Laisvall, Maunu and Ritsem, and the list can be made long. In 2007, when I bought my first diesel car, a liter of diesel cost 9, 90. Now, 13 years later, it has tangled a price that is three times as high. Not any other product, except possibly villas and condos at attractive city address, has had such a cost development. Since Sweden is a country that is characterised by large distances and sparse population that depends on the car in everyday life, it is my firm opinion that the government's proposed measures in this area are far from sufficient. Madam President, I would like Now that I am rounding off this debate, I do so with concern that, despite his declared good intentions, the Minister for Rural Development does not quite understand how bad it is. I wish she could have calmed me down on that front.
i-E4tVJSys6prF1WbZYny659	Madam President, I would like I do not think that any rural people share the view that the travel allowance has nothing to do with rural areas. It is of course a very important condition, especially for the village that the honourable Member is talking about, that there is a working travel allowance for you to be able to travel to your workplace. This is especially true if you have the long distances that the honourable Member told you about. But I can also tell the honourable Member that the government is currently working hard to support Ukraine and to try to mitigate the effects on Sweden, that is, to strengthen Sweden. We need to do both these things right now. These are tough sanctions against Russia that have started this unjust war. We are doing this in a number of areas. The first time that the Swedish Democrats really had the chance to decide on a budget and presented a budget reservation that went through here in the Swedish parliament I could not really see a single rural effort in it.
i-9Tuqu6fiFWB9Qrv94g3dd4	Madam President, I would like Eric Palmqvist has asked me what measures I intend to take to increase the reputation of the state-owned mining company Luossavaara-Kiirunavaara Aktiebolag, LKAB, locally and thus contribute to strengthening the reputation of the industry both locally and nationally. Swedish mining and mineral industries are of great importance to Sweden as a country, in the regional and local perspective and beyond Sweden's borders. It is about jobs, welfare and mining of minerals and metals that are important for the green transition. Among other things, Sweden produced approximately 93 percent of all iron ore, 34 percent of all zinc, 3 3% of all lead, 19 percent of all gold and 11 percent of all copper in the EU 2020. Sve r ige also has a strong exploration potential for innovation critical minerals and metals. It is important for the government that Sweden has modern and effective permit processes. The licensing processes in the mining and mineral sector are regulated in both the Environmental Code and the Mineral Act (1991:45). The Government has appointed the Environmental Assessment Report (M 2020:06) with the mandate to propose measures to achieve a more modern and effective environmental compliance test. The investigation will present its report in May 2022. In addition, the Government has established an investigation into trial processes and regulations for the sustainable supply of innovation critical metals and minerals (N 2021:01). The study will analyse and propose changes to review processes and regulations so that better account can be taken of both a project's local environmental impact and its societal benefits, such as reduced global climate impact, and that a larger proportion of the value generated by the mining and minerals industry can benefit the whole country. The report will be submitted by the end of October 2022. In addition, the Government has appointed a coordinator who can facilitate consultations and assist with coordination linked to the various trial and planning processes required for conversion projects within the industry in Norrbotten and Västerbotten. Sweden is at the forefront of climate change, thanks to major green investments and a clear political direction. We intend to push for an accelerated climate change transition and for our country to take its share of the responsibility for reducing emissions. This is made possible by good access to essential and innovation-critical metals and minerals. For Sweden, this means an opportunity to contribute with metals and minerals that are produced in a more sustainable, environmentally friendly and socially responsible way than in the outside world. Sweden will continue to develop the mining industry and at the same time be a leading country in the mineral industry in terms of sustainable development. Madam President, I would like LKAB, like the other Swedish limited companies, is governed by the Swedish Companies Act (2005:551), which means that the company's Board and management are responsible for the company's organisation and the day-to-day management of operational operations. The government is aware that the ongoing urban transformation in Malmfälten is of a unique nature. According to the State's ownership policy, the Board of Directors of a company with state ownership is responsible for ensuring that the company is managed in an exemplary manner within the framework of the mandate of the company, the legislation and the state's ownership policy. The Government has confidence that LKAB is dealing with urban transformation in a responsible way.
i-YRLoCfcBZSWFQUtiRcMybk	Madam President, I would like I was so eager to debate with our new Minister for Economic Affairs for the first time that I spilled water over my papers, but at least I managed to save my script. The Minister for Industry and I have one thing in common. Then I am not referring to the absence of fair hair, but to the fact that we both express our love for mines. It is a decent prerequisite for today's debate, and it is partly reflected in the response that the Minister for Economic Affairs has just given and for which I thank you. Much of what the Minister for Economic Affairs has to say in his reply is good. Perhaps I could criticise that too little has happened in matters relating to permit processes, but I can't blame him for that – after all, he's quite new to me. That is not what this debate is about either. LKAB is a state-owned mining company, which is a bit of the jewel in the crown of state-owned companies owned by the Swedish people. But jewels can also have their backs, and in this debate I would like to point out one. I believe that the Minister for Economic Affairs and I agree with you on the importance of LKAB for Swedish industry and raw materials supply. I, who also live in one of LKAB's production sites, can testify to LKAB's importance for a whole district's well-being and future faith. I myself have worked ten years underground in LKAB's mine in Vitåfors outside Malmberget and know how the mine lives in symbiosis with society. Despite shaking, setting, mining dust and the like, even though there are rumbles in the house every night when you shoot in the mine and even though the whole house can sometimes shake so that you think that someone has run into the garage gate because of formations, we are generally very lenient with the mining business, which has a long tradition in the resort. We also condone the fact that large parts of society are being torn down to be built elsewhere with all the challenges it entails and the sadness it brings for those who see their childhood quarters being demolished and fenced in. However, when state-owned LKAB is perceived as a company that does not do well, but deviates from the agreements entered into with Gällivare Municipality and goes against it when the municipality calls for negotiations, it is bad, and it arouses bad blood. I will come back to that in my next speech, Madam President. I am convinced that the Minister for Economic Affairs, just as I am well aware of and familiar with the main challenges facing the mining industry, where social acceptance is said to be one. In some places – primarily where there is no tradition of mining – there is strong resistance to mining establishments. This is a problem because at the same time we have a strong ambition to increase the degree of self-sufficiency of a variety of metals and minerals. I believe that in such a situation there is no room for the state mining company to add to the debate and to provide the opponents with concrete arguments and negative examples from reality. I believe that it should be exactly the opposite – that the state company should take the lead and set an example in all respects. I believe that despite his positive response in many respects, the Minister for Economic Affairs has failed to give his view on that particular point, which is why I hope that he will be able to clarify his view on it.
i-SMfH9Uh1KPnoKz76z2aJ1S	Madam President, I would like I would like to remind you that we started the discussion with the enormous work ahead of LKAB with the major transformation that is taking place in Swedish mining management, not least in Gällivare and Kiruna. I share Eric Palmqvist's assessment that this is one of the biggest industrial transformations we have seen in Sweden at all. LKAB has officially told us that it intends to invest a total of almost SEK 400 billion in rescheduling production in Norrbotten. It is not only about increasing mining but also about starting to produce iron sponge as a substitute for iron ore pellets so that Swedish mines can also contribute to the green transition outside Sweden's borders. Since LKAB, as I said at the beginning, accounted for approximately 93 per cent of all iron ore in the EU by 2020, I think everyone understands the importance of the decision that LKAB has made. We can help the rest of Europe to reduce CO2 emissions by perhaps 30 – 35 million tonnes annually. A fantastic development! In addition, LKAB has just announced that it has figured out how to extract residual material from the flows from the existing mines. It is planned to start a new type of mining operation in Luleå, in a company called Reemap, where, in collaboration with Boliden, among other things, will start to extract minerals from what goes out of the flows from LKAB. Amazing finds have been made in the residual materials. For example, 30 percent of Europe's demand for rare earth metals, Sweden's need for permanent magnets and Sweden's need for plaster. It is thus a fantastic development that LKAB is undergoing. Of course, these large investments also have a major social impact. I do not think anyone is unmoved by the great changes. They move whole cities, and I think that many citizens in both Kiruna and Gällivare have been touched on both personally and by the very intense debate and discussion over how this is to be done, how to replace the homes that disappear when the mine expands and how to build new, good communities and cities alongside. I have already replied that I think the company is doing this well, but it is clear that there are citizens who are worried about their housing and how to manage to develop the new places of residence. There has also been some discussion between the municipalities and LKAB. It would be unwise for me, Madam President, to get into that debate, because there will be a trial, among other things, if those parts where there is disagreement. It would be irresponsible for a minister to conduct a judicial review before this has moved on. Our view is that the companies handle this on their own. We have great confidence that LKAB will do so in a good way.
i-Kws7WQjWAbyNqs4a4FgJGU	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Thorwaldsson, for your answer. It is amazing to see this development at home. If I go up on the roof, I can look over to my old place of work. Malmberget, a few kilometres north of Gällivare, has a strong influence on LKAB's mining. Large parts of society have been redeemed and decommissioned, and LKAB replaces municipal premises according to the agreements negotiated between the parties. As far as homeowners are concerned, over the years a few different models have been used to compensate them, and they have not landed quite correctly in any case. For example, two-storey villas have been valued as two-storey villas, while villas with interior cellars have only been rated on the ground floor. Garage has been counted as extensions and not replaced and so on. Some feel cheated and very badly treated in a process where LKAB should safeguard its reputation in the area. In eastern Malmberget, the situation is even worse. It is an area that was identified in 2012 as a development area that would not be affected by mining activities. I remember this and remember how everyone in the area laughed at it when we knew it was already heavily affected by LKAB's operations. Although LKAB has repeatedly revised its plans and made a departure from the cooperation agreement with Gällivare Municipality, it still applies voluntary redemption of the properties in eastern Malmberget to worse conditions than for other interested parties. Although properties in the area suffer extensive damage, such as cracking, doors and windows that cannot be opened and closed, water breaks and so on, the mining company first claimed that it was due to natural causes – and then to back down and feel that it cannot be excluded that the mine is affecting. What is happening now is that 73 per cent of what was considered to be a development area in eastern Malmberget has been phased out, which of course affects those who remain but also the municipal conditions for planning snow clearance and district heating, for example. Problems also arise when 87 per cent of the student base in the school in eastern Malmberget has disappeared. Everyone realises that this cannot be regarded as a development area even though LKAB continues to maintain that it is. Today, there are only fragments of what was eastern Malmberget. Therefore, Gällivare Municipality has since 2017 tried to get LKAB to the negotiating table but got a cold hand, and the people who live there are stuck. These people state in surveys that they want to move, and many of them feel very bad. If the minister had made a study visit to eastern Malmberget and seen what the housing situation looked like there, he would have understood why. At the same time, LKAB seems to be concerned about opening the stock exchange. I am well aware that the Minister for Economic Affairs cannot and must not regulate state-owned companies in detail, but ownership dialogue is, after all, permitted. My hope is that the Minister's party colleague Göran Persson, who is LKAB's Chairman of the Board, is, after all, interested in how the Government views the company's governance. If nothing else, I am, and I would like to know how the government sees the role of our state mining company as an example, even when it comes to doing the right thing when its activities affect individuals and municipal activities.
i-JvGdPiqwCDutocHVtuGJBr	Madam President, I would like Just as you are at Eric Palmqvist, it is clear that we must always look at the individual and how different activities affect the individual. However, the fact that a Minister of Economic Affairs speaks in every detail about the companies we manage is irreconcilable. The government portfolio consists of 45 different companies, and these are activities that quite often affect people's lives. We have a management model where the companies we have in our portfolio must comply with the Companies Act. You're absolutely right that we have an ongoing ownership dialogue with the companies. In this case, the issue has been raised on several occasions. My representatives have been present locally, and I have also been in previous roles in both places to see how the development and work are progressing. However, the assessment I presented at the outset remains, Eric Palmqvist. I believe that LKAB has carried out the major transformation of Kiruna and Gällivare with great responsibility. The conflict raised by Mr Palmqvist in this House is very difficult for me to have an opinion on. As I said, it is a dispute between a municipality and a company. It is not for me to decide in the Parliament's pulpit, but for the courts that are set to do so. The big picture, however, is that the major transformation of LKAB, which began with the announcement that the whole of Kiruna would be moved, has been a huge urban transformation for two important cities in northern Sweden. It is not clear yet, but it is quite clear that the discussions with the municipalities concerned have progressed further and further. Although in some parts it has been conflicted, it has also worked very well in many parts. The emerging new cities are popular among those living there, and many want to move there. Maybe that's one of the reasons why the conflicts are getting deeper between the company and the municipality-- I don't know. But, of course, we will do everything we can, Eric Palmqvist and Madam President, to make it good for all the people who live there. But I am not prepared to go from there to direct the state-owned companies in detail.
i-Ms8NytHs49a35hXpdxZuDs	Madam President, I would like I can begin by saying that I respect the Minister's cautious approach. This is not entirely straightforward. But I think the Minister knows that there is a lot more to be done in order for me to express criticism of Swedish mining operations. On the whole, I am extremely proud and impressed by the Swedish mining companies' operations and leading position in several respects. But if I see that something is wrong, it is justified to lift it, especially as I see with concern the negative and harmful opinion that this kind of thing can give rise to. I would like the Minister of Economic Affairs to come to Gällivare to form his own view of the situation. I am almost sure that our Social Democratic KSO would appreciate such a visit. I can also point out that this is an issue run by all political parties from left to right in our municipality, so I do not intend to make party politics out of this. The Minister will see it rather as a submission from me as a representative of Gällivare and Norrbotten and as a member with a special interest in mining and mineral policy issues. If the Minister makes the impression of visiting Gällivare, I hope that he will also experience some northern lights and that he may visit Icehotel in our neighboring municipality of Kiruna, which is a good example of another industry for which the Minister of Economic Affairs is actually responsible: tourism and tourism.
i-CwYcTMHVuBtt1HNRW8dJfL	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the invitation, Eric Palmqvist, to come to Norrbotten! It is actually in the calendar that I will make a visit to the mining industry in Norrbotten. I'll have to go to Gällivare too; it's quite obvious after what we've heard here tonight. In general, there is a lot of discussion about how we can provide the world with the minerals we have access to in Sweden. It is clear then that the large mining companies that we have, which are fantastic global companies, not least Boliden and LKAB, must also act locally in such a way that it strengthens confidence in mining in general. But despite this, and being sympathetic to a trip, I do not want to enter into the individual conflict that is between a municipality and a company, because it would be wrong for me as a minister to do so. But I welcome the invitation, and eventually maybe we can meet and watch the beautiful northern lights together.
i-FuYhP1SVQ4mySN4Khhmmb9	Madam President, I would like Maria Gardfjell has asked me how I and the government want to invest in Sweden's geological survey, SGU, in Malå. Maria Gardfjell also wonders what measures I am prepared to take to improve the maintenance of the core layer. Maria Gardfjell also wonders if I intend to take some general initiatives to make the museum in Malå accessible and whether the government will make sustainability initiatives related to knowledge development in biodiversity and reindeer nutrition in exploration and mineral information. The Malå Drill Core Archive is Europe's largest exploration information archive. From the Malå mineral office, where the core archive is located, SGU provides ongoing guidance and national exploration information to both national and international companies. It is often through the Malå office that the first introduction to Swedish conditions takes place, at least for the international prospectors, not only in terms of geology, but also in mineral legislation and environmental legislation. The information on environmental legislation also provides some information on sustainability, biodiversity and reindeer nutrition. The small museum in Malåkontoret is a collaboration between SGU and the Georange economic association within the framework of the agency's mission to promote Sweden as a country of exploration. SGU does not really have among its tasks to carry out museum activities for the public. SGU has in recent years built up the capacity of the core archive. In February 2019, SGU opened both new storage facilities for cores and another log room of a total of 4,000 square metres, which also increased the capacity to receive visitors. SGU's image is that the overwhelming majority of the drawers in which the cores are stored are in good condition. Maintenance is carried out on the boxes showing signs of being in poor condition. In recent years, SGU has invested in making the core archive even more accessible to potential prospectors through digitalisation. J u better information SGU can provide at the m ineral office, the more efficient exploration will be, which can increase the possibility of new mines in Sweden and thus reduce our dependence on critical metals and minerals from trading partners that are uncertain even from a sustainability and climate perspective.
i-5c8ZWcEePRCd9THU6JK8sV	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your answer, Minister of Economic Affairs. I know that the Minister for Economic Affairs is extremely interested in mineral politics. It is therefore particularly interesting to discuss the issues from this perspective – SGU's work in Malå. Malå is a small town in northern Västerbotten with approximately 2,000 inhabitants. SGU has its head office in Uppsala, from which I come. I really feel a great interest in the authority. Working with mineral information activities is extremely important for improving and also creating a better environmental aspect in the work with the development of the mining industry. We from the Green Party have pointed out that there have been and are several examples of mining activities that are currently being investigated. They may be inappropriately placed, or there may be huge conflicts with other social interests, such as reindeer farming. In order to be able to find more suitable locations for future mining operations, I think you need to develop the operations with mineral information in several different ways. In fact, in 2015, the government commissioned SGU to describe how the activities of SGU in Malå could be developed. There has also been a solid report on this. SGU has a long history in Malå. The SGU came to Malå in 1918, if I am properly informed. It's been over 100 years. Exactly 100 years ago they started a mine in Adak. And in Adak I have my roots – hence the interest in this place. It is quite right that the SGU has developed in an incredible number of ways. In the 70's, over 200 people worked in SGU, Malå. Now there are 5 people. However, local office facilities are considerably larger, and many more could be accommodated. When I visited the SGU in Malå before the pandemic, they described, among other things, the government mission that they had had and the proposals that had been presented to the government. Even now that I have been in contact with SGU in Malå, I have been told that it is nothing or very little from the proposals put forward to the government that the government has followed up. I think that's very unfortunate. I also think there is great reason to think about how the state authorities meet the demand to create more jobs in rural areas.
i-GQiGfZKKYD2Huw1dhqY1P9	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Gardfjell, for an important future discussion on the amazing mineral layer that SGU has built up for over a hundred years in Malå. It is amazing that we have the largest layer in Europe of mineral samples in Malå. This has come about because we have a long tradition of searching for new minerals in Sweden. The fact that the SGU has gone from having so many employees in the last century to much fewer today is due to the fact that the Riksdag has made a decision to change who has the main responsibility for making test drilling and exploration. It is imposed on private operators, but they have the same obligation to publish the collected material in Malå so that anyone can get samples from the studies made at any time to see if there are biodegradable minerals. It is a delicate task to keep track of all test drillings and catalogue them in such a way that other companies benefit. SGU conducts operations in Malå together with the head office in Uppsala, and the major change that is taking place now is the implementation of a digitization of cores so that it will be easier for future prospectors to find the minerals that can be mined in Sweden. What we now hear, not least from the rest of Europe, is that the need for new, critical minerals is increasing, and it is growing very much thanks to, or because of, the green transition. Many more minerals are needed in the future to enable us to move from being fossil-dependent to not being fossil-dependent. A good example is an electric car compared to a petrol-powered car. An electric car requires about four times more copper than a petrol car does. It is clear that we should make sure to break the type of mineral in Sweden that makes us pass the green transition. Madam President, I would like I do not think that the SGU's mission is different from when the Riksdag made decisions in the mid-1990s, but they try to use more modern methods so that it becomes easier for potential prospectors to see what is in Malå. Of course, the expanded premises also want to take better care of all the mineral samples available in Malå and publish them, together with a voluntary organisation in Malå called Georange, both for prospectors and for people who are curious and want to see what is available. They do not run a museum, but to open up so that the public can get there and watch, says SGU and – not least, I think – Malå has been a good way to use the assets you have to attract more people there. I do not believe what Maria Gardfjell is asking about increasing employment in Malå. I think we should adapt it to the mission that SGU has, and that is to map and put in magazines but not to do the test drilling itself. Then, of course, we will use the resources where they have the greatest impact. I think we have found a pretty good balance there. Then, of course, we are happy to fight for more jobs for Malå. It would benefit everyone.
i-GttqH2sSM4mrtttu8U4WYz	Madam President, I would like I think it is a pity that the government has such weak ambitions for SGU in Malå. One factor that makes it only five people who work there is that some of the employees in Malå have another station. I think that this is an issue that we should be able to discuss with the authorities if we are to work in this way, now that we have an ambition for more authorities to operate in rural areas. I want to return to the government mission that SGU reported to the government in 2016. It shows that it is difficult to find ore in Sweden. One reason is that only 5 percent of the bedrock is visible. So it is really important to have the core bearings and historical information on geological occurrences. Everyone should be able to access information. Many, especially now after the pandemic, from the mineral industry have begun to return to and visit SGU in Malå. But the fact is that I think you could probably make higher demands. If you were to build up the business at SGU in Malå, you could impose a mandatory requirement on the mineral companies to first search and prospect in the archives before starting a comprehensive exploration business around Sweden. It is expensive, it draws a lot of energy and it has a great environmental impact. The report submitted by the SGU to the Government contains a wide range of proposals. There are proposals for investments of approximately SEK 20 million. Some of those things are incredibly important to point out. It highlights the most important proposal, which is to make the core archive even more useful by strengthening skills. It also highlights that public interest in mineral exploration with Mineral Hunting could be resumed with relatively small investments of 1 million a year. It is an activity that has existed before and is no longer active in Sweden – at least not as active as it could be. It also raises issues related to training activities, international work and the strengthening of IT infrastructure with faster connectivity, which is needed to use the digitised services that are now becoming possible to develop. In addition, you lift up the archive of documents and the museum that exists. I know that those who work at the SGU in Malå really think it is a pity that the SGU cannot allow the activity to keep the museum open even to school students. I think it is extremely important to remember that if Sweden is to have an ambition to develop the mineral work, we also need to raise ambition when it comes to how we describe and talk about these issues.
i-XVk6aBp6sL6ae5g7XJkewf	Madam President, I would like It is not that the government does not see the need for increased exploration opportunities in Sweden. We have several investigations that are currently looking at how to make it easier to open new mines in Sweden with regard to the environment and climate. Nor is it the case that the SGU has not been given access to resources. They have received 21 million for 2021 – 2022 to increase opportunities for sustainable mining of minerals. So it is not that we have sat passively and watched and that SGU does not have a mission in relation to this new debate and discussion that exists about the need to take more minerals in Sweden. I say in no way that the interpeller is wrong that it is easy and better to start from the cores that exist. Not everyone may know that there are 3 million meters of cores from 18,000 boreholes stored in Malå. Much of the mineral value also changes over time, so I think you're absolutely right in that there's a lot to get in looking at the drill holes and cores that are already made. It is also sustainable and can reduce the cost of a potential prospector that could open a mine more quickly. However, I believe that this must be done in close cooperation with the SGU and that digitalisation, which the SGU describes as one of the most important things, is what we need to invest very much in, not least because it is difficult for those who want to break minerals to be able to do these studies on the spot. The more that can be digitized, the easier it will be for those who want to break minerals to take part in the hundred-year work in the archive in Malå. I also believe that Malå will have an increasingly important role in the discussions on increased mineral needs in Sweden. We see, just as the interpeller has been aware, that after the pandemic there are more people who have again started to look at Sweden as a possible exploration country. There is an addition, namely that the big giants in the Swedish mining industry, Boliden and LKAB, have in no way reduced their exploration activities. On the contrary, they have been exploring more than ever. In recent weeks we have achieved good results in the exploration around the mines, not least in Norrbotten. There, access to ore has been secured for a long time to come. It is gratifying that mining waste can be reused to open new mines. The initial investigations at LKAB show something fantastic, namely that it is possible to solve up to one third of Europe's need for rare earth metals from the flows that exist at LKAB. Collaboration between SGU and the existing mines, and also for new prospectors, is crucial if we are to succeed in the strategy of taking advantage of more of the minerals needed for the green transition.
i-EKheVpRiXxJM1z2wJgxGjR	Madam President, I would like It is incredibly important that the government invests in SGU's activities in Malå. Malå is a small town in northern Västerbotten, but it is the southernmost forest community. I believe that the greatest opportunity for development lies in creating a commitment to sustainability. The government is currently on its table to decide on a possible mining operation in Kallak. There is a huge conflict with the reindeer industry. Not only do we need to find experience and knowledge from drill cores about where there may be good places to explore, but this must be combined with a clearer and more important knowledge of the conditions of the reindeer industry and the conditions that exist for plant and animal life in different places. In the planning of mines where there are no target conflicts with reindeer nutrients or biodiversity is, of course, something that would increase the efficiency of what the government and the Green Party want to achieve, namely the development of a sustainable society. Finally, I would like to emphasise that knowledge of old mining waste is also important. This knowledge also needs to be digitised and made available at SGU – preferably in Malå. Thank you for the answers to the questions. I very much hope that the Minister will take the issues with him in the work forward.
i-DJm5AhhGjCve4JY2C3C2sX	Madam President, I would like I thank Maria Gardfjell for an important debate on the future. Of course, no one wants us to use more of earth's resources than we need. I myself am encouraged by what we hear from LKAB about possibly starting to break out of existing flows. It's almost too good to be true. We have accumulated mining waste since the 1860s in our large iron ore production. If the residual material from there can solve many of the problems with new minerals needed for the conversion, we should of course prioritise this first. I do not believe that the industry is yet ready, whether Boliden or LKAB, to put its knowledge in SGU's Malå archive. It is quite new knowledge that has come to light in recent years, and I think they are busy seeing what potential there is. Clearly, the investment in Reemap, the new company in Luleå, is really encouraging. The initiative also solves other problems, such as phosphorus and fertilizer for agriculture for the whole of Sweden. These are fantastic opportunities for a better future, and at the same time we can take advantage of our beautiful environment.
i-Fa5cePNSUEK2Qp5kvJE7QK	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me whether I intend to remove or change existing employment subsidies in accordance with the statement in Today's Industry. He also asks when I will invite the companies and what I expect the outcome of the talks to be. Thirdly, he asks how many of the non-self-sufficient foreign born I expect can go from contributions to work in the business world after my phone calls and future meetings. Finally, he asks me what I want to do to create increased competitiveness for Swedish industry so that more products and services can be sold on the world market and thus create wealth and jobs in Sweden. With regard to the question of employment aid, I assume that the question relates to the conditions for aid for short-term work. At least that's what I was referring to in the interview that was published in Today's industry. On 24 February 2022, the Swedish Parliament decided to accept the Government's proposal for a temporary suspension period for short-term work. This means that the employer who has received short-term work support during the period March 2020 to September 2021 may also receive support if the requirements are otherwise met. The amendment will enter into force on 1 April 2022 and will apply to support from December 2021. Madam President, I would like The Ministry of Industry has continuous dialogues with representatives and individual actors from all over society. Dialogues are conducted when it is important for the government to continuously inform about the business policy work and listen to industry organisations, authorities, civil society, trade unions and the business community in order to develop business policy. Dialogue and collaboration are central to overcome unnecessary obstacles and find areas where cooperation is the way forward to develop Swedish competitiveness. The question of how many of the non-self-sufficient foreign born who may go from grants to work is not possible to answer. It is clear, however, that the interest of industry is great in finding ways for better integration in Sweden, and we welcome that. We have said that we should turn every stone around, and then it is obvious to listen to the proposals that come from the business community. There are many good ideas that we will take advantage of. Swedish competitiveness is strengthened by giving companies and entrepreneurs good opportunities to develop their skills, efficiency and innovation capacity. Among all that is being done to strengthen Swedish competitiveness, I would like to take this opportunity to highlight the Government's work for streamlined and simplified regulations. The Government has submitted the letter A simplification policy for strengthening competitiveness, growth and innovation to the Riksdag where a number of assignments for concrete changes are announced. Sweden is at the forefront of climate change, thanks to major green investments and a clear political direction. Our country should take its share of the responsibility for reducing emissions, but also show the world how faster climate change creates jobs and export opportunities. The Government will drive an accelerated climate change transition while allowing for more private investments that contribute to reduced emissions, increased exports and new jobs. This reduces Sweden's emissions and creates more jobs throughout the country.
i-8waZXv6LhGaF1NqFpYMayy	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Industry for his answer. Many people probably read today's industry on December 5 with some surprise. Depends on the glasses you wear, of course. There the Minister for Economic Affairs said exactly what he said in his reply here, namely that the question of integration should be resolved. He's called about 20 directors, and we're gonna do this together. In the article he says that he has been calling the directors on the basis of his broad network of contacts since the time that LO presidents have been calling. We'll see if we can all gather here in the near future, and this was on December 5th, to talk a little bit deeper about it. I guess a little deeper about it, if it's going to have to mean the 700,000 foreign-born who aren't self-sufficient in Sweden. There are 700 000 foreign-borns who are not self-sufficient in Sweden, Madam President – and the Minister for Economic Affairs says in the interview that he has called around twenty directors. Madam President, I would like The business community is Sweden's largest integration engine. Anyone who has visited a grocery store or restaurant, travelled by taxi, seen a bus driver or something else knows that the business sector is Sweden's largest integration engine, Madam President. But it is the government's responsibility to ensure that the business community can be Sweden's largest integration engine. I don't think that you can solve this by calling some twenty directors – just that you have the view of entrepreneurship is a little interesting – but it must be that the Minister for Economic Affairs is passionate about creating conditions so that companies can hire the people we are talking about. That is why I have asked the question of competitiveness. Madam President, I would like I've never seen a job advertisement where it says, "We're looking for you who can't speak Swedish, who can't read and can't write." That ad doesn't exist. When I say that the business community should be able to take on an even greater integration responsibility, my starting point is that the companies are Sweden's largest integration engine, especially the smaller companies. The smaller companies in rural areas, in particular, are taking enormous responsibility. However, they are now on their knees, Madam President, because this government, for example, has pushed the diesel price up to a maximum of SEK 28. How can companies be integration engines when you knock their legs off and give them a cost shock in areas over which the government has direct control? Take the companies in Skåne, who have had electricity bills of 8.50 per kilowatt hour – 8.50 per kilowatt hour! The other day I met a company in Gävleborg, Madam President. The entrepreneur has three stores and quite a few employees. He said: I pay the electricity bill via direct debit, and I don't even want to open it. But it is the last-line money that is now being drawn from his account, instead of he being able to make the small extra bet and hire more people. It is the direct responsibility of the government to ensure that companies can be an even better engine of integration by creating better conditions of competition for companies. As former LO President, the Minister of Economic Affairs knows that the price of all products is put on the world market. We cannot therefore have higher costs in Sweden than in our surrounding world. My question, which was not answered in the interpellation response, is that on 5 December the Minister of Economic Affairs called these 20 directors to a meeting. How's that meeting going?
i-HsoPBsgoqcPUApjHKNaXiP	Madam President, I would like This is the first time that Minister Thorwaldsson and I have debated. The situation is as follows: Small companies are the root of society in Sweden and have been for decades. Better conditions are needed for small businesses to dare to hire. It is a great responsibility to take on by hiring a person; for example, sickness pay is 14 days. If two out of four employees go up to the mountains and one breaks the leg, 25 percent of the strength is gone. This is a burden for small companies, but it is not a burden for larger companies like Volvo and the others. They have HR departments, and they spend money so that they can afford it. However, it is the same regulatory framework for Volvo as for small companies, and there I call for reform. There needs to be simpler conditions for small businesses. I won't tell you if the limit is 20 or 50 employees, but you need to do a review. The environmental code also involves a great deal of hassle for companies. I come from the archipelago, where shipbuilding activities find it difficult to obtain permits. Even if they are granted permission by the municipality, the county administrative board often comes in and overtakes. Shipbuilding is quite important in the archipelago in view of the boats and the life we have out there. I do not think it would be wrong for the government to perhaps steer up the county boards a little better, because I would argue that at times there are rather arbitrary interpretations in certain states. Lower contributions to people who do not work is also a prerequisite for getting more people into work. It's about driving forces – if you go home and have over 20,000 clean you don't have the same engine to start working. After all, motivation must be there. It should always pay better to go to work than to live on benefits. It'll always pay better! A green transition sounds nice, and there's nothing wrong with trying out new technology. It is also good for many companies. But we must have one thing with us, namely that Sweden accounts for one thousandth of the world's emissions and that the forest absorbs just over one thousandth – that is, more than one thousandth. What will it do if we reduce emissions here when China builds 500 new coal power plants and India 200 new coal power plants? The problems with emissions are global. They do not stay in Sweden. My recommendation is therefore to invest in new, modern nuclear power. Not only does it have to be great works, but it can also be smaller works. I think it would be very good in the green transition.
i-B1epo5n9MEgemE2R1YMB9D	Madam President, I would like This was an open Question Time, and we got a long way from the subject. However, I think that both Kjell Jansson's and Lars Beckman's questions are very important when it comes to how we should look at the coming years. A little pessimistic, I think, perhaps, that the debaters are looking at Sweden today and in the future. I do not know if they have not followed the development of the green transition and seen how much new jobs are being created in Sweden right now, not least in northern Sweden. A total of SEK 1 100 billion will be invested in Norr- och Västerbotten, which is also to be welcomed in the unemployment statistics: We have the lowest unemployment rate in Sweden in Västerbotten, and the second lowest in Norrbotten. The green transformation of business creates a lot of new jobs. What we are talking about here is the Swedish model, Lars Beckman, and that we actually talk about solving problems. I've had many roles in that model before. When it comes to integration into the labour market, for example, I was LO President when we negotiated the things that have actually led us to halve the time it takes for a newcomer to Sweden to enter the labour market. However, I do not think you should settle for that, because I think you are absolutely right: everyone should live on their own salary, and we should not have people living on the shadow side or on the side. The work line is very important to me as a social democrat. Madam President, I would like So I do not think we are so unconsensual in substance, but I do not believe in the model the debaters are talking about, that is, the only way to get people to work is to make them poor. It's an old-fashioned sight. No one believes in it anymore. When it was tried over eight bourgeois years, it did not lead to increased employment either, but it led to increased class differences and a great many people – many more than today – ended up in unemployment. On the contrary, make sure that the first job is very easy to go to. For example, a great success during the previous and previous term of office was additional services. I know they weren't at the top of the Moderates' wish list, but a lot of people – even those who didn't know the language, Lars Beckman – took their first steps into the labour market that way. They worked in fast food restaurants or in community care. Of course, many learn the language and the Swedish way of working if they are allowed to try out a job, and many have moved on to ordinary jobs in ordinary sectors. I also share Lars Beckman's view on tourism and the restaurant industry; it is no coincidence that the first company visit I made was to a newly opened Max restaurant in Norrtälje. It was precisely because they are incredibly skilled at finding the skills of young people who, unfortunately, other employers are rattling. Many get to take their first step into working life when they get to go in and try a job. They get working hours, a 24-hour rhythm, and a boss who tells them what to do. That's the right way in. So I think we should invest in making it even easier to get the first job. We will cooperate between the parties in Sweden to make it easy to get the first job – hence the conversation with directors. But, of course, talks are also taking place with the social partners, with Visita and with others who are influencing how we are going to set up policies for the coming years. Your vision is old-fashioned, Lars Beckman. The vision I'm talking about is more modern. Welcome to the future!
i-5HJXrzLdBT7fgCnRqAVS7Q	Madam President, I would like Let's get one thing straight first. The Minister for Industry and I fully agree that we should not have a shadow society in Sweden. I think it's terrible that there was a black cleaning lady cleaning up at the Prime Minister's house. It was a person who was illegal in Sweden, who did not have the right to stay here and who lived in a shadow society who cleaned the home of the Minister for Economic Affairs' party friend Magdalena Andersson. We shall fight this in every way. We're going to fight the crime of working life and turn all the stones around. It's embarrassing that there was a black maid at the Prime Minister's house. However, this is not what we are discussing in this interpellation. In this interpellation, I have asked a simple question. After all, it was very remarkable that the Minister for Economic Affairs went out and thought that the business community did not want to contribute to integration. My picture is exactly the opposite – entrepreneurs can and want. These could be entrepreneurs in Ockelbo, Ljusdal, Hudiksvall, Gnosjö or elsewhere. Of course they want to. They live in their community. This may even be the difference between the director, who lives far away from the local community, and the small business owner, who lives in his locality. The small entrepreneur sponsors the local sports association and contributes to the local community's openness. But, Madam President, for that entrepreneur to be able to take that responsibility, the Minister for Economic Affairs must arrange competitive conditions. Then the diesel price may not be SEK 28 per litre, and the kilowatt price cannot be 8, 50. Nor, as the Minister for Economic Affairs' party friends have now promised, can we increase taxes significantly and weaken the 3:12 rules. You have a box of taxes that you intend to introduce. If this is done, companies cannot take that responsibility. Surely it must be the greatest single failure of the previous LO President that he, together with the parties, produced a package that led to 700 000 people living in Sweden not being able to support themselves. This has terrible consequences. I have spent the day at the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise's big conference. I ended up at a round table on crime and crime. I heard an entrepreneur – it was a haulage company – tell me how the staff were robbed in broad daylight when they went out with goods to a shop in Halmstad. This is not a good basis for achieving better integration. Nor is it a good basis for getting them to hire more people. They even tried to call the police, but they couldn't get through. The female entrepreneur told me they went to the police station. However, the police did not even accept the police report, because the police were not staffed. The police in Halmstad said: Come back tomorrow, and we will try to receive the police report. No one believes that this crime will be resolved. This is the reality out there. That is why I have asked what the responsible minister – the Minister for Economic Affairs – intends to do to seriously ensure that Sweden's integration engine, i.e. the entrepreneurs, will be able to hire that extra person and be able to take responsibility for hiring even those who do not know Swedish at all. Madam President, I would like It was 3% who went on to a non-subsidised job after extra services, according to the RUT report I produced. So 97% failed.
i-MHhyVkHnJywm5okGNtmiwg	Madam President, I would like It is still strange that the view on how Sweden develops can be as different between two people as it is between me and Lars Beckman. I don't really know where you've been in the last few years, Lars Beckman, when developments have actually turned around and employment has taken off. The economy in Sweden has gone – and goes – very well. Sweden is the first country in the EU to have a higher post-pandemic rate than before the pandemic. As far as employment is concerned, Lars Beckman knows that Sweden is an example for the rest of Europe. For example, the employment rate of foreign-born women in Sweden is higher than that of native women in other countries. It is a bit of the political debate that comes up here, of course, and it is not unimportant to discuss different solutions. I first described how many new jobs the green transition creates throughout the country. The major problem described by industry today is to get skilled staff. This year, the government has allocated 9 new billions to further train those in the middle of their lives so that they can take on more difficult tasks. This is done in close collaboration between the parties and began with an agreement between employers and trade unions which has then been taken over by the Riksdag. The Parliament has decided on 9 new billions to supply skills. I was at Finnlätten in Västerås a week ago. Northvolt has put his research activities there. It already has 400 new employees and says that only in the coming years, and only in this one place, should we go to 1 000 employees. When ABB and several others are now also going to build new factories, it is described that the employment at Finnlätten in Västerås will be increased from the current 5 000 jobs to 40 000 jobs. I don't really know what reality you're living, Lars Beckman. Perhaps you should go on some trip to the country, talk to the business community and assess whether the business community is really wrong in that the big problem is how to get our hands on skilled staff. This does not prevent labour market problems. I do not ignore the fact that there are problems with the integration of new people coming to our country. I think the first job is the most important job; it applies both to young people and to new arrivals. We must therefore do all we can to create that opportunity to take the first step in. I remember when, as a 13-year-old, I had my first day at work – that's a lot of men's years since now – and what it meant to be able to follow working hours and learn the value of their own working hours. It is clear that many people who live in our country but have not yet entered the labour market would like to do so. I welcome the fact that Lars Beckman says that he intends to contribute to trying to work against the crime of working life. The Government of Danielsson will present legislative proposals in this area in the coming months. I will follow closely if the Moderates vote in favour of this in this House when the proposals to curb labour crime come. There we seem to agree, but it remains to be seen whether the rest of the moderate parliamentary group will support the new legislation that is on the way to reduce the use of people in the Swedish labour market. In conclusion, I do not think we will benefit from painting the future in rose-red, but we do not benefit from painting it as pessimisticly as Lars Beckman does. You might think that everything is going to hell in Sweden. This is certainly not the case – we are creating new jobs and new opportunities for the future. I'll tell you again, welcome to the future, Lars Beckman!
i-KMJfzFqp72rADpRqbThyvb	Madam President, I would like I think it is important to relate to reality. We're not at the SSU Congress in Ockelbo, or wherever they want it. Sweden has the fourth highest unemployment rate in the EU; that is the facts. If you are satisfied with being a little better than Italy, Greece and Spain, perhaps you can express yourself as the Minister for Economic Affairs did. That is why the interview in Dagens Industri got so much attention, not least in social media. The Minister for Industry was supposed to solve the problem of 700,000 foreign born. This is what this interpellation is about – the 700,000 foreign born. We have not received an answer. In his three speeches, the Minister for Industry has used 12 minutes' speaking time but has not answered the question: When did the Minister of Economic Affairs have a meeting with these 20 directors, and what came out of it? The most remarkable thing in the interview is when the Minister for Economic Affairs answers the following question from the journalist: I don't think so, and I think that's an important thing. ..................................................... Then what happened in these four months? We have runaway electricity prices and runaway fuel prices. We have farmers who alert every day in all the media around Sweden that they will not even be able to afford to set the harvest this year. That's the reality. We have to relate to reality. If you do not recognise a social problem, Madam President, you cannot solve it either. I believe that many small businesses, the integration engine in Sweden, expect the Minister for Economic Affairs to stand on their side and ensure that the Minister for Finance lowers fuel taxes, which means that you can hire, and that restaurant owners who are now getting flashy price increases should be able to hire by the government lowering costs. But now take the last chance and tell the Swedish people about the meeting with the 20 directors!
i-U4P5q5SZeda1Bg3f5gUWoj	Madam President, I would like I thank Lars Beckman for a frivolous debate. Nevertheless, I believe that the development suggests that talks are a good method of working, including talks with directors. At least over the years, I've discovered that directors are very interested in making society better. In view of the last week and the terrible war in Ukraine, we should probably be very grateful for the close relationship we have between government and business and, of course, also between Parliament and companies. Madam President, I would like The ongoing dialogue also allows us to act and react much more quickly to changes in society. All in all, I think that we find the very best ideas over a cup of coffee in a conversation with the parties or with an interest organisation – or even in the Riksdag from time to time. It's easier to solve things if we work together on them. The unique thing about the Swedish model, even when it comes to foreign born in Sweden, for example, is that we can move from words to action much faster. One example is when we introduced fast track at the big immigration 2015 – 2016 instead of waiting for a long time before you could go out in your profession. This could apply to people with a long education. It could be cooks. You could go out in your profession with the language you had with you. We could very quickly ensure that many more of those who came to our country could get their first salary and working time and learn more about the Swedish model and the Swedish companies. I think we have a lot to learn from collaboration and conversation. I talk to both directors and representatives of other interest groups, and I think it is good for Sweden that we cooperate.
i-J76ix4i9s7Disgh1Z71UyE	Madam President, I would like Jonas Andersson i Linghem has asked me what approach I and the government have on whether history should be updated and how this approach will be expressed in government policy. He also wonders whether I would like to take any political initiatives that could influence the issue of the demolition or removal of cultural objects and monuments, such as statues. I would like to begin by thanking Jonas Andersson for the opportunity to develop my view and that of the government on this multifaceted issue. The Government's foundation for supporting and promoting the culture and cultural heritage that exists in Sweden is the goal set by the Riksdag that culture should be a dynamic, challenging and untying force based on freedom of expression, that everyone should have the opportunity to participate in cultural life, and that creativity, diversity and artistic quality should shape society's development. To achieve this goal, the government also works to promote a living cultural heritage that is preserved, used and developed. My position and that of the government is that everyone has the right to participate and participate in shaping the cultural heritage. Cultural heritage is a common heritage. It is constantly evolving and formed by people together. Cultural heritage policy is based on an open understanding of cultural heritage, where cultural heritage is understood as traces and expressions from the past that are attributed value and used in contemporary times. Cultural heritage is not just what we are proud of and represents something positive. Cultural heritage can also be traces of things that we are not as proud of and that testify to times or things we want to distance ourselves from. Here there may be a tendency to forget, and sometimes even erase, errors as well as the more everyday. However, as a basis for what should be preserved for posterity, or for how we can understand what has really been excellent for other times and communities, we need the cultural heritage in its entirety. A variety of traces from the past gives us the opportunity to understand and learn from history. That's why we're never going to erase parts of history. The diverse values of cultural heritage are not secured by removing, but by adding, by constantly seeking new knowledge and new stories, to get more perspectives on history. We cannot undo history, but we can work in every new time not to repeat what we consider to be wrong. Finally, there is no proposal on this issue on the table of the government. The reason for this is that it is neither the government's task nor my task as a minister to take initiatives that can influence the issue of demolition nor the removal of cultural objects and monuments. It is a matter for a wide range of other actors. The creation of knowledge for interpreting and reinterpreting cultural heritage lies with the cultural heritage institutions.
i-DNND6xvMkk4EmDDst7mHtN	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for Culture for the answer to the interpellation. This is an important subject we are going to debate here today, not only because statue carvings and the removal of various cultural objects are something that the Minister commented in an interview in Svenska Dagbladet in February, but also because the issue was on the agenda earlier in the Swedish social debate. A few years ago, when Black Lives Matter, BLM, was very much in the media focus, one can say that there was imported a kind of statue ripping debate to Sweden. It is a debate that has been great not least in the United States, where various radical elements with criminal methods have attacked monuments and cultural objects. The United States has also tried to create political pressure to remove statues across the country on the grounds that the people who are the subject of the debate had the wrong values in different ways. In Sweden, corresponding forces have tried to do the same. For example, attacks were carried out in a similar way to those in the United States. Various calls have been made for statues to be demolished over important historical figures around our country as well. Media reports it. Several left-wing politicians also support these attempts to demolish our Swedish cultural heritage. Mostly in the line of fire in Sweden ended possibly monuments to Carl Linné. In Sweden there have been similar debates in other parts of the cultural field with loud demands to censor and, for example, to remove books from cultural institutions. One example is the debate on Tintin books, a debate that was already held about a decade ago in Sweden. Madam President, I would like The serious thing about this, and the reason it's unpleasant, is that a loud group wants to erase parts of people's history. You want to erase memories and symbols. You want to stop books from being read. It is also a kind of guardianship and attempts at censorship. Some give themselves priority to talking about the culture that people are able to consume, as if they were not old enough for themselves. This behavior is almost an echo of the Chinese Cultural Revolution and Mao. When the Minister of Culture in his interview in Svenska Dagbladet opened up for statue rivings with respect to human rights, many, including me, reacted. That's why I'm here today. The threat of statue rivings also comes not only from activists but is a matter in the Swedish parliament because of the former government partner of the Social Democrats, the Environment Party whose members of parliament have exercised to remove statues of, for example, Karl XII and Gustav II Adolf from the squares of central Stockholm. In the interpellation response, however, the Minister says that we should not erase parts of history, and I agree with that. However, since the Minister answered the question in different ways in the article and in today's interpellation responses, it is unclear what the message is. It is important what the Minister thinks about tearing down statues and removing cultural objects – although she rightly points out that many other actors have responsibilities in this area. However, her and the government's attitude is important as it may characterise Swedish cultural policy. Future proposals and other initiatives from the government could, following decisions further down in the operations, lead us to move more towards demolitions and the removal of statues and more. Therefore, I would like to repeat the question in the interview in Svenska Dagbladet so that we can get a clear message: Can it be right to remove a statue or a painting or a book and if so, when?
i-T2wzrDP9KAUs7973mfzQma	Madam President, I would like How the Swedish steel bites, let's try! Get out of the way, Moscovites! Fresh courage, I lads blue! ..................................................... Now perhaps the Minister of Culture is not a national Romantic, but it is difficult not to think of Esaias Tegnér's poem Karl XII in these times. In Kungsträdgården, just a few hundred meters from where we are right now, the statue stands over our old warrior king. A symbol of pride and grand dreams, but also of pride and fall. In the interview in Svenska Dagbladet referred to by Jonas Andersson, Minister of Culture Jeanette Gustafsdotter has difficulty answering the question of whether to remove statues that some feel offensive. In the answer, the Minister for Culture says, "If it turns out that the person who is on the statue has violated human rights, it can be right, yes." ..................................................... I have not yet heard the Minister for Culture back from this statement, and that is why the answer is worrying. In the United States, cultural radicals on the left have managed to get lots of statues removed – everything from explorer Christofer Columbus to President Theodore Roosevelt. We may have different opinions about historical people and their actions, but regardless of what they are there to remind us of what was once. What is worrying about the reply from the Minister for Culture is the arbitrariness that can arise when we suddenly take into account modern ideas such as human rights in these possible assessments. These rights, which we all support, were adopted by the UN as late as 1948, which makes it difficult for the heroes of the past to be measured against the view of our time on human rights. Karl XII, a statue in Kungsträdgården, undoubtedly broke today's standards against several of the points in the Declaration of Human Rights. Magnus Stenbock, who is standing on Stortorget in my hometown Helsingborg, will probably also be seen as an accomplice. This is where the shoe squeezes. Where is the limit, and who decides what is right and what is wrong? Madam President, I would like When the Minister of Culture was asked to remove statues that some feel offensive, the answer would be no. Instead, the answer was unclear. So in view of this, I would like to ask Jeanette Gustafsdotter the following question: Does the Minister of Culture think that statues depicting, for example, Karl XII or Magnus Stenbock should be allowed to remain despite the fact that the people by today's standards violated human rights?
i-GbNaYpyYLovRc7FQPVjNKp	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by agreeing with Jonas Andersson and Pontus Andersson that this is an important subject. I cannot stress enough how important I myself think it is, not least in view of my previous role as Secretary General of the Swedish Museums. Then I'm sure you can understand how important cultural heritage is to me personally. We can only learn through intangible and material imprints from the past to the present and the present to learn for the future. We'll never forget or hide. Instead of deleting, let's add. Society has in all times erected statues and monuments to remember and celebrate, sometimes as an important element in the design of various urban spaces. What of what past societies have created and what traces of the past are considered worthy of attention and preservation is decided by each society in every time according to prevailing values and rules. This can also be expressed as changing over time what is considered as cultural heritage. We must therefore see that an interpretation and reinterpretation of what belongs to the cultural heritage is ongoing. Working with cultural heritage must be based on a holistic approach, and we need cultural heritage in its entirety in order to understand history as fully as possible. Cultural heritage is not just the good heritage. The preserved extermination camps are a frightening reminder of the unimaginable violence in our modern European history. The national cultural policy objectives adopted by the Riksdag state that culture should be a dynamic, challenging and untying force based on freedom of expression. The freedom of culture is therefore a fundamental principle of cultural policy. A strong and independent profession in the field of cultural heritage has the task of ensuring a diversity of historical tracks and counteracting tendencies to only highlight good cultural heritage. In research and in museums and other cultural heritage institutions around the country, history is constantly complemented by new perspectives. More stories about the same events in the past are added and provide a different and greater understanding. It is in this way that we store knowledge of the past that has a bearing on how we understand and also act in the present. We'll never forget and hide. Instead of deleting, let's add.
i-XnHEzcJqY3oQcQPJz5EYxb	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Culture for his answer, although I feel that neither I nor Pontus Andersson received any clear answers to the questions we raised in our first speeches. A number of Western countries have had problems with radical forces to tear down statues and other cultural objects. One such country is the EU country of Belgium. A few years ago and in connection with the statue ripping debate that was going on at the time, various statues of kings were removed in the city of Antwerp, for example, as a result of the political pressure that arose from various elements. Crimes were also committed and these monuments were vandalized. Initially in the debate, I mentioned the USA as an example of a country where much has been said about statue rites and where there have also been many demolitions of statues. It is not only controversial and less well-known people in American history who have been the subject of these attacks, but also people whose existence and actions have been absolutely crucial to the existence of the United States, such as Christofer Columbus and George Washington. Statues of people like these have thus been demolished in the United States, which shows how absurd it can be when you allow the criminal elements to set the agenda. A dangerous part of the statue-rescue debate is that those who push on in this matter often use crime and various undemocratic methods. When leftist politicians have opened the way for various cultural objects to be demolished and removed, they have not only erased history and deprived people of their cultural heritage, in some cases, but have also met the criminals. These politicians have thus shown the statue-rivators that violence, vandalism and mob rule pay dividends. Madam President, I would like Given that the political debate on statue rivings is largely a phenomenon that has been imported into Sweden from not least the United States, questions are raised about how Sweden could be affected even more from outside in this area in the future. I am thinking of the risk that a debate and a political orientation that exists in international contexts could influence attitudes and politics here in Sweden. In that case, it could ultimately pose a risk that the view that statues should be demolished and other cultural objects should be removed fortified here. Not least given that the government often interferes with the European context when it comes to cultural policy, there is cause for concern, I think. Directly and indirectly, the EU's impact on Swedish cultural policy is clear now. And now we also see that in European countries such as Belgium, not far from us, statue rippings and the deletion of cultural heritage occur in this way. I have some questions about this to the Minister for Culture: How much self-determination should Sweden have in cultural matters? Does the government have any kind of red line when it comes to this issue? Can the government guarantee that cultural political pressure from outside – from the EU and elsewhere – must not set the agenda in Sweden for statue rippings and the removal of cultural objects?
i-6V4AxN4v5WBNHLPJdEoXHV	Madam President, I would like I am perhaps used to the fact that ministers in these contexts find it difficult to answer the questions asked by interpellers and their co-debaters, so unfortunately the answer from the Minister for Culture is not surprising. What surprises me, however, is that Jeanette Gustafsdotter, who has had the role of Minister of Culture since last autumn, has received questions like these several times – only over a month ago in Svenska Dagbladet, shortly thereafter from my party colleague Jonas Andersson and then again in this debate – but, as I see it, she cannot answer the questions in a clear and good way. Another question concerns whether Swedish culture exists at all, as my party colleague Tobias Andersson has asked the Minister on a written question. For a Frenchman, an American or perhaps a Kurdish, it would have seemed highly unreasonable not to be able to answer yes to the question of whether the French, American or Kurdish culture exists, but the Minister for Culture does not seem to be able to give a direct answer about the existence of Swedish culture, which is strange but also dangerous. Madam President, I would like In order to make it more difficult for the Minister for Culture, I will therefore ask one more question, except for the first one to which I feel I did not receive a good answer. These are two short questions. A yes or no is enough, so I hope that the Minister for Culture will not blame for lack of time if the answer is not forthcoming. Question one: Does the Minister of Culture think that statues depicting, for example, Karl XII, Gustav II Adolf, Magnus Stenbock or other comparable persons should be demolished? Question two: Does the Minister of Culture believe that Swedish culture exists?
i-UGbgPWJYoMotMUU86nmRvm	Madam President, I would like Since neither Jonas Andersson nor Pontus Andersson seem to perceive my answers, I choose to briefly repeat some of my previous answers. We'll never forget and hide. Instead of deleting, let's add. In response to whether or not to decide on what is to be demolished, I must also repeat a previous answer. The creation of knowledge for interpreting and reinterpreting cultural heritage lies with the cultural heritage institutions. Cultural heritage shall not be selected to represent any value or be adapted to human rights. Cultural heritage, on the other hand, can help to promote these rights by enabling a greater understanding of the past and thus providing us with tools to shape the future, a future in which we do not repeat the same mistakes as before and where, hopefully, human rights are more respected. Cultural heritage is an infinite source of knowledge and a common asset for all people. Our quest must be an accessible cultural heritage consisting of a variety of traces from the past. But, and here I want to be extremely clear, it is not the political task to determine which parts of the cultural heritage should be preserved, nor how the cultural heritage should be presented and what should be told. As Jonas Andersson and Pontus Andersson hear, it is my very firm belief that the government's governance and political perspectives should not govern the artistic content, to which evaluation and selection of cultural heritage belong. As Minister of Culture, I will work hard to ensure that artistic freedom is preserved.
i-6EDLoRK8DUMGD7rWuxLMkg	Madam President, I would like I think that the Minister may have a conversation with her former government partners in the Green Party, if she thinks that politics should not determine what is preserved from the cultural heritage, given that the Green Party has actually exercised here in Parliament that we should hide statues of, among others, Karl XII and Gustav II Adolf. If there is to be a historical view where statues and other cultural objects are to be squeezed into a template with today's view of human rights to exist in our public spaces, there will be little left after such a purge. There would probably be hardly one royal statue left in the whole of Stockholm. The same would certainly apply to Swedish historical personalities when it comes to science or, for that matter, culture. Many traces of Swedish history could disappear, for it is hardly the case that values from, for example, the Middle Ages, the Great Power era or even the 19th century would fit so well with today's concept of human rights. Historical monuments reflect their time. Like today's people, historical people are often multifaceted. It can certainly be that people who stand statues had values that are very alien to us today in different ways, but they may still have made a decisive contribution to Sweden and the world. Carl Linné is such a person where the statue riffers want to remove various monuments from the public. It's about perhaps Sweden's greatest scientist ever. He is known not least for his system of classifying and naming nature, and the foundation of his system is still used today throughout the scientific world. I therefore wonder how the Minister views the debate and the demands that have been made in Sweden to tear down statues. Carl Linné is such a person who has been very much in the line of fire. There has been a lot of media coverage that he should have had the wrong value. I wonder: Do the people who have shouted that statues of people like Linné should remove a point?
i-CrW5CopBiGeXvcDzvHRbzy	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank Jonas Andersson and Pontus Andersson for this debate and for the issues, which have enabled me to develop my and the government's view of cultural heritage and the importance of cultural heritage work characterised by knowledge, participation and diversity. Governance in the field of culture is based on the professional's independent position and responsibility for the content of the business. This principle is important to establish and protect and also strengthen and develop. There are ongoing demarcations of what is to be included and what is not to be included in the cultural heritage area, but these assessments must be made as far as possible outside the political sphere of individuals in civil society and professionals in the cultural heritage sector. I would like to conclude by reading a short passage from the cultural heritage bill which touches on the issue that we have debated today in a pitiful and beautiful way: Working with cultural heritage is about allowing the past to emerge in its own dynamism and ambiguity. To tell progress stories about how various past efforts have inevitably led to today's enlightened state unfailingly violates that understanding. Instead, it is important to maintain a distance and to assume that the past, as has often been pointed out, is a foreign country that must be understood on its own premises.
i-AftJs9tFjkG9tomYG1obrZ	Madam President, I would like Kjell Jansson has asked me what my plan is to ensure a robust electricity supply and whether I intend to take the initiative to project new nuclear power. As Kjell Jansson rightly points out, electricity prices in the past winter have risen sharply, with consequences for both households and companies. The main reason for this has been the very high energy prices on the continent, especially on natural gas. Electricity prices are now rising again as a result of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. The Government is taking several measures to ensure that Sweden has a robust electricity supply in accordance with the parliamentary energy policy objectives on security of supply, competitiveness and ecological sustainability. The Government has recently decided on Sweden's first marine plans and to commission the Swedish Energy Agency, together with other authorities, to identify new areas for energy extraction. The aim is to contribute to sustainable development and accelerate the expansion of offshore wind power in order to meet the increased electricity demand resulting from the green industrial revolution. The Swedish Energy Agency plans extensive reinforcements of the network and nearly triples its network investments over the next three years compared with the previous three-year period. In addition, the Government has made a decision to give the Swedish Enterprise's Swedish power network the task of extending the transmission network to areas in Sweden's maritime territory. It will significantly reduce the overall costs of connecting, for example, offshore wind power. In addition, the Swedish parliament has supported the Government's proposal in the proposal Modern permit processes for electricity networks (prop. 2020/ 21:188) aimed at shortening lead times and making it easier to expand the Swedish electricity network. The Swedish Energy Market Inspectorate, the Swedish Enterprise Agency, the county administrative boards and Lantmäteriet are all working to streamline methods and processes for permits and trials. As regards Kjell Jansson's question about initiatives for the design of new nuclear power, it is the market players who decide on investments in new production of nuclear power. I might add here that I have no knowledge of any such plans.
i-MyvrxPb4Yhf7Vo22Jv4qBq	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Energy for the answer, or the non-reply. I would like to draw the attention of the Government to the fact that Sweden's prosperity has been built for many years. Some of it has been low energy prices. In the 1880s Sweden was among the poorest countries in the world. People fled to the United States to make a better life because there was so much poverty here. Then Sweden has risen through education, hard work and skilled entrepreneurs. We are living today with an energy crisis. It is said that it depends on Russia and on the gas. That's not true. We have been a country with the world's best nuclear power – the safest nuclear power. It was developed by the great industrial leader Nicolin Nicolin, who was CEO of Asea and built up Asea Atom. It was absolutely world-leading nuclear power. We have dissed this today and are banning the development of nuclear power. The Minister for Energy says that the government has commissioned the Swedish Energy Agency to find places to build offshore wind power. There are no transfer lines out there in the ocean. To a written question from me, the Minister for Energy has replied that consumers should pay for this via network charges. What are the costs? There'll be sky-high costs. It's a completely dysfunctional policy that's going on. The reason is that the government has closed six nuclear power plants in Sweden. That is why we have a shortage of electricity. It's not the gas. Had we not closed these nuclear power plants, we would not have had electricity prices of SEK 8 per kilowatt hour in Skåne and Småland. The Karlshamnsverket now runs full time almost all the time with 140 000 litres of oil per hour. 140 cubic meters of oil an hour, is it environmentally friendly? In addition, we buy lignite from both Poland and Germany to cope with the electricity supply in southern Sweden. Madam President, I would like Is this the government's environmental policy? The answer is yes. Then you talk about green conversion. I'd like to say it's brown conversion. This has caused us to have a great shortage of electricity in the winter. Because when it's really cold it's absolutely nothing. I live out in the archipelago, and I can testify to that. There's been hardly any wind in two weeks out there. It's basically still wind every day. Madam President, I would like In addition, wind power provides electricity only under 60 per cent of this year's hours. We must have energy sources that give electricity 100% of this year's hours. And nuclear power and also hydropower provide it. The government plans for offshore wind power in the coastal area and obscures the costs of transmission lines. It has not been reported how much it will cost. I am in contact with one of the companies involved in this. A leading official there has told us that in the future, when this is built, households will probably have to count on network charges that are 5 000 – 6 000 SEK higher per household per month. This is what people are going to know. What's going on is crazy. The dark is not accounted for. If we expand Forsmark, we have networks there that can be used, and so do Ringhals. There are rumours of costs of SEK 30 billion for new transmission lines. In itself, it is not money when compared to high-speed trains that will cost 20 times as much.
i-WxEFLvY1aU5pQpxVWMFEUc	Madam President, I would like I thank Kjell Jansson for a very important interpellation. Madam President, I would like In 2014, I had a press conference in Sandviken. I warned that there could be a Social Democratic government with the support of the Green Party. I warned against the consequences of the Green Party promising its voters that nuclear power would be phased out in Sweden. And that's exactly how it's been done. The Social Democrats sold away nuclear power in order to be able to rule Sweden with the support of the Green Party. At 19:04 a.m. today, Expressen published an article entitled: "Swedbank's private economist states there that a two-child family in a villa loses SEK 1,900 to 2,800 per month according to our forecast. For those who are interested, it is possible to look at what it means for different households. Swedbank's private economist says this is due to electricity prices and fuel prices. Madam President, I would like These are two issues which the government itself owns entirely. It is the government, the Social Democrats, that has created the elusive prices of electricity when nuclear power has been shut down. It is the government that, with high fuel taxes, is pushing for a reduction in purchasing power. And it is the government that, with a bank tax, increases mortgages. But the most remarkable thing in the energy minister's response – apart from the fact that he does not want to develop nuclear power, a stable energy source that has served Sweden well – is the last sentence: ..................................................... This means we have an energy minister who doesn't read the media. If he had, he would have read an interview in Svenska Dagbladet with a representative of one of the companies that could restart nuclear power very quickly. Should consideration also be given to restarting decommissioned nuclear power, such as the two Ringhals reactors that closed in 2019 and 2020? The journalist asks. I do not rule it out, answer the representative. If the conditions are right, it could be an alternative compared to building completely new ones. Restarting a shutdown reactor is not possible with current legislation. However, according to the responsible Radiation Safety Authority, the government could theoretically make a rapid law that allows for a restart, in the same way as a law was passed that allowed Cementa to continue to break limestone on Gotland. ..................................................... So these are the facts, Madam President. It is the fact that we had an energy minister who wanted to ensure that households in Sweden do not now have a loss of purchasing power of up to SEK 2,800 per month. If we had a government that cared about jobs. If we had a government that cared about the need for energy. The Government devotes 97 percent of its response to talking about wind power – the wind power that the Minister himself does not want in Nacka. I respect that. But I also respect those who live in Söderhamn, Gävle, Hudiksvall or Älvkarleby who do not want the wind power that the Minister does not want in Nacka. I respect that. What I cannot understand is the social democracy that has built this country together with the economy in terms of energy supply. Now that there is information that nuclear power can be restarted, I have to ask why the government is sitting on its hands and not ensuring that we have access to electricity as soon as possible.
i-SNrekRgrtAYdQ6M43Y36Mf	Madam President, I would like Social democracy has built this country strong and continues to do so. Social Democracy – not the Moderates – expanded hydropower, which is the backbone of Swedish energy production. Social democracy – not the Moderates – expanded nuclear power, which today serves us well and will continue to serve us well for a long time to come and which I have repeatedly said that we should be careful and ensure that we maintain as long as we can. Social democracy – certainly not the Moderates – is expanding wind power, which is the fast, cheap way to get a lot of electricity in place for Sweden's households for the future. It is not the Moderates but the Social Democracy that takes responsibility and builds while the Moderates engage in some form of cultural war against the cheapest, most profitable and fastest way to get energy in place here in Sweden, that is, wind power. They engage in the 70s and 80s technology of nuclear power as some old nostalgics who miss their old Walkman Walkman. The fact is that the Moderates today do not have any funding for future nuclear power plants. Despite the rumours that they are engaged in and despite the articles that they refer to, it has been perfectly possible for anyone who wants to build nuclear power in Sweden for ten years. Where's the money? Show me the money! Otherwise, it's just empty talk. Where are the concrete applications to build? Show me! Otherwise, it's just empty talk. I've been clear. This government has been clear. We are not the ones who will stop such an application. If there's a serious desire to invest, go ahead! Unlike offshore wind, there are even transmission networks that the government has funded and drawn up for the three sites that can be built on. The Transmission Networks want the Moderates to give special treatment to offshore wind power, which they do not want to build, while the State paid for the transmission networks for both hydroelectric power and nuclear power. There is that possibility. Show me whoever really wants to build! Otherwise, it's just empty talk. It is said that politics closed down nuclear power. I can admit that at the beginning of the 21st century two nuclear reactors were shut down after political decisions. It was Barsebäck. However, the fact that the latter four reactors would have been shut down by politics is simply not true. If some people understand the profitability argument, it is they who own the nuclear power plants. They say it's not profitable to push on. Madam President, I would like Let me tell you what profitability means because Members obviously cannot. Profitability means that it would have risked raising electricity prices in Sweden if, through political decisions in this noble House or in the government, nuclear power owners had been forced to keep the reactors going. It would have risked bringing up prices much earlier. That is what the profitability argument means. That is what means that, despite the advanced transmission networks, there is not a single one who is prepared seriously to pick up the wallet and send in an application to build nuclear power stations. This while there are companies in line to invest in offshore wind power. Even though a municipality can say no at any time. Despite the great risks. Then I have to say that it is astoundingly realistic to claim at this point, with the terrible war that we see going on in Ukraine, that Russia's invasion of Ukraine would have no impact on our energy prices or, for that matter, all of Europe's energy prices. Wake up! is my message.
i-Myv8kqTAwtnXtVm4f23a67	Madam President, I would like I don't know where to start. That electricity prices go up because of the war, I have never denied. However, I have said that it is not the whole truth. The government blames Putin for everything. It is your dysfunctional policy that has created this, and you have banned the development of nuclear power. There are investors who want to build nuclear power. Jacob Wallenberg has said it on TV. Rune Andersson at Mellby Gård said so in Dagens Industri the other day. The industry wants robust, secure electricity. It's certainly not more expensive than the electricity is now. The price of electricity will certainly not go down in the near future, especially in the winter. We will live with high electricity prices. We will have to live with increased network charges. This is the consequence of the fact that we don't have enough electricity. But the Government must answer whether it is environmental policy to buy coal power from Poland and Germany. The municipal veto is threatened, the municipal self-determination as well. I understand there will be a bill soon. We will do so in the next debate. But it is also a way of attacking the municipalities and Axel Oxenstierna's constitution that we have in the municipalities. The only realistic thing is to start and build nuclear power. Give assignments for nuclear power instead of wind power! You have subsidised wind power with 80 billion. That's why it's built in time and out of time, and it still doesn't work. It stands still 40 percent of this year's hours. The 40 percent, what kind of electricity are we gonna have? The hydropower is enough in summer time but not in winter time – far from it. The Kilowatt price was 8.50 in Skåne last week. It is absolutely unbelievable, and it is not just the war in Ukraine. It affects, absolutely, but the main thing is that we have a lack of energy. What you have to do is get started and rearrange the Ring Neckworks, two of them, and get them moving. I'm sure it'll take a couple of years, but it's still worth getting them started. There's a functional network and everything from there. Then the price will go down in Skåne and southern Sweden, guaranteed. Forsmark also needs to be expanded. We have a shortage of electricity here in the region. Ica is building a new hall in Arninge, Täby. They've been waiting for five years, because Vattenfall says you can't guarantee that you have electricity for them. Ica draws an extreme amount of electricity with all the fridges and freezers. They are extremely dependent on electricity, and Vattenfall says that power cannot be guaranteed. It has delayed construction by five years – in Sweden. You might wonder where we live. Are we in Africa? Don't we have power? It's crazy, everything. The consequence of not building nuclear power is that we must continue to burn with oil in Karlshamn. We'll have to continue importing lignite. And the Minister for Energy says that nuclear energy costs too much. But you want to build high-speed rail, to earn 20 minutes when you go from Stockholm to Gothenburg, for 500 billion. Then there's money. Then nobody cares about money anymore. Then the theories are back on track. I think it is incredible that this has happened. The Minister for Energy said it's the Social Democrats who built nuclear power, yes, and the Moderates. Line 1 was designed to build nuclear power. But the Social Democrats were behind line 2. If the memory isn't there, I can tell you that you did. The Social Democrats and Liberals represented Line 2 and the Moderates Line 1 – that we would have robust nuclear power.
i-W889PspVpQ8ZRRN48gDPb3	Madam President, I would like Thank you for that history lesson, Kjell Jansson! I think it needed the Minister for Energy to hear. It is incredible, Madam President, that we have an energy minister and government representative who does not take part in the news or, for that matter, talks to those who are prepared to invest in nuclear energy, for example. The entire Swedish people could see the interview for 30 minutes, where one of Sweden's heaviest business leaders looks right into the camera and says: Give us long-term rules of play. But what is also incomprehensible, Madam President, is that the Social Democrats deliberately reduce the purchasing power of a family with children by SEK 2,800 a month, according to Swedbank's forecast today. This is due to three things: two political decisions concerning fuel taxes and the availability of energy, and the bank tax, which now pushes up the interest rates on mortgages. These are three domestic decisions taken by this government. Svenska Dagbladet gives clear and clear answers: Yes, we can restart nuclear power. Sweden's companies and, of course, households need planned energy that is available all year round, regardless of the weather. But the Minister will now answer the question: Why is it inappropriate to build wind power in Nacka, compared to Söderhamn? Why should those who live in Söderhamn have their surroundings destroyed, when the minister himself stood in Aktuellt and told us that it was inappropriate to build in Nacka? Is there a difference between those living in Nacka and those living in Söderhamn? The Minister will be happy to elaborate on this.
i-MN7E4rqm5wctM6bRXXGJBz	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Lars Beckman! I'll start with the question of Nacka. Let's look at reality. What were the suggestions for building in Nacka? Were there proposals to build wind turbines in Nacka? No, it didn't. There was a suggestion to unbiasedly investigate where to suggest someone else to come and build, at a cost to be borne by the wind turbines themselves. If there had been a concrete proposal to build in Nacka, we would have looked at it. Now there was no such thing. Yeah, I said no to doing such an unbiased investigation, because it's not going to municipal tax money. This will be done by wind power developers. So let us tell the truth about this! On the other hand, there was a proposal to expand wind power in Nacka by building vertical wind power plants on rooftops. I was the one who put forward that proposal. The one about this! I hope we can put it behind us. I assume Lars Beckman will come back to this. He will receive the same answer in the future. For ten years it has been perfectly possible to invest in Swedish nuclear power. Lars Beckman stood here and mentioned one of the investors, Wallenberg, who has said on television that he wants long-term rules of play. Indeed – long-term rules of play are in place today. In this noble House, there has been a decision that the country should eventually switch to renewable energy sources. I think it's until 2040, if I remember correctly. However, as I have said before and as I see it, all the parties that have voted in favour of this and participated in the energy agreement, regardless of what they have done afterwards, are also aware of this is an objective, not a stop date. Let me say in this noble Chamber: if Wallenberg or any other financier wants to build nuclear power stations ready in December 2039, at least a Social Democratic government will not run and shut them off as soon as we are past that date. It is a target date, it is not a stop date, and this House knows that, even if an election year like this is to pretend otherwise. When it comes to the municipal veto, mentioned by Kjell Jansson, I will start by saying that I am very concerned about it. I like the municipal veto. I think it is important that citizens who live in a municipality can vote for their local politicians and that it has a good effect. However, the municipal veto needs to be developed so that you know on what basis a municipality enters the process and when in the process the municipalities can enter so that it can have an effect. The volatility and uncertainty that exist now, whether it is about building wind turbines or nuclear power plants in any municipality in the future, need to be better addressed than today. That is why the municipal veto needs to be further developed, and that is what this bill will mean. The government is not looking to remove the municipal veto but to ensure that there is predictability in this. I also note that the large companies in this country, which are actually working on these future scenarios today and are investing – SSAB, LKAB, Volvo, Northvolt – are counting on wind power, hydrogen and green electricity, which will be part of their future. As Minister of Energy, I count hydropower as my spine. I am counting on the existing nuclear power, which will remain in place as long as it is possible. But I am also counting on growth in wind power.
i-vMrjaa5VumsmEVbymQ1Qg	Madam President, I would like It is good that the Minister for Energy declares that it does not want to remove the municipal veto, because I know that your former government partner, the Green Party, was looking for it. This feels somewhat soothing. When it comes to building energy, after all, it is the state that is the principal. This is not a market, with the energy taxes we have. Over half of the electricity bill consists of energy taxes, network charges, etc. Everyone knows that. This is the task of the state, which is why the state has responsibility. As well as taking the initiative to build wind power, initiatives can be taken to build nuclear power. I have no views on the fact that the companies want wind power, but then let them pay for it. It is not meant to be paid by taxpayers' subsidies, with the high taxes we have. We have the world's fourth highest taxes and the world's highest taxes on income. It's embarrassing to punish people who go to work in the mornings. It was also interesting to hear the Minister for Energy talking about nuclear power in Agen d a, I think it was. The Minister for Energy said that we should not build nuclear power in Sweden, but in Europe it is okay to build nuclear power. When the Minister for Energy was asked by the reporter, he said that it is perfectly okay to build nuclear power in the EU but not in Sweden. That's pretty logical. The same applies to wind power – everywhere but not in Nacka. And who lives in Nacka? Many of your ministers live there, in the blue moderate municipality that Erik Langby has built up. Interesting! Thank you for the debate. We will have to come back and discuss this. I won't give up. We'll make sure we build nuclear power. We will have robust energy for the business community so that households have reasonable costs for electricity bills. It's the only way to get rid of the other thing.
i-PBW3cSPr4swzDCR5wYygaG	Madam President, I would like Thank you for this debate. It is quite correct that it is not the market alone that is building our future energy system. I have just presented an electrification strategy with 67 concrete measures that will build Sweden's electrical system strong. Part of this is electricity generation, which is the only thing the Moderates seem to be interested in talking about. Electricity grid capacity, flexible electricity systems, smart grids, energy storage, energy efficiency and power and district heating networks need to be built. I don't think I'm either in society or in my party known for being the type of state socialist that Kjell Jansson claims to be when he wants the state to act to build this. But I note that we have very many people who want to invest in our energy system. They're ready to invest in wind power. It would be very stupid if we were to take taxpayers' money and invest in something that someone else is prepared to invest in, when we can steer the market in the right direction. I say in the right direction, and I say again: it is perfectly possible for the market to build new nuclear power plants if they find it profitable. And it is not just to be dedicated to the market, because if the market does not find it profitable, it means more expensive prices for electricity consumers. Look at our neighbour Finland! Building the nuclear power plant there took 13 years longer than they intended. This corresponds to electricity prices that are three times higher than the price of electricity produced by our wind turbines today. Take Flamanville 3 in France! While we're talking, it's nine years late, and it's up seven times higher prices. France, which is Europe's largest nuclear country and wants to build more, has among Europe's absolute highest electricity prices. It's connected.
i-C8AAT1tA7pHYADcutajTGZ	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me whether I intend to give Boverket a mission to guide how wind power expansion can take place without any negative impact on noise and psychosocial living conditions or other factors that have a negative impact on local residents. Lars Beckman has also asked me if, even now, I believe that it is not necessary to guide the municipalities in how wind power expansion can take place without negative consequences for local residents, I intend to change more parts of Boverket's mission that have similar issues. Finally, Lars Beckman has asked me whether I and the government intend to take measures to improve local democracy so that the influence and influence of municipalities on wind power expansion in Sweden is strengthened. Initially, I would like to point out that I am aware that wind power expansion requires good planning in order to reduce the risk of inconvenience and to create good housing environments. I therefore intend to continue to follow this issue closely. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency published a guide on noise emissions from wind turbines in December 2020. In addition to a review of the general knowledge of noise emissions from wind turbines and current benchmarks, this provides guidance for measures to reduce noise. At present, I do not believe that further guidance is required. As regards the question of whether I intend to change more parts of Boverket's assignment that have similar issues, Boverket is responsible according to its instructions for guiding municipalities and others in how noise and other health issues should be taken into account when planning for, and building, housing according to planning and construction legislation. With regard to what I intend to do to strengthen local democracy, I would like to refer to the recent legislative referral by the government – Early municipal position on wind power. The legislative referral means that the regulation of the municipality's position on wind power is clarified. The municipality's right to influence wind power in the municipality should remain, but the forms for this are regulated. I see this proposal as a means of promoting the expansion of wind power while the municipalities retain their right to say yes or no to wind power plants. In this way, we strengthen the potential for sustainable development while strengthening local democracy.
i-QFZH3RPQBnH24yc3Lz2ZQN	Madam President, I would like It will be a very recent language from the Government. They want to weaken local democracy and say that it will be an improvement. Let me be clear: I see no reason whatsoever for us to impair the influence of local politicians over their own municipalities in terms of wind power expansion. Madam President, I would like When Boverket visited the civil committee, I asked Boverket's Director General if they had any mission to guide municipalities in taking into account the impact of wind power expansion on people living nearby. It is Boverket who is the Government's expert authority – the Minister is new in his area of responsibility. Boverket answered briefly: No, we do not have such a mission. That is remarkable, Madam President. So it is not just the Minister for Energy and the Prime Minister, who lives in Nacka, who does not want wind power in their vicinity, that we have heard in other interpellation debates. Of course, very many people are affected by wind power expansion, unfortunately negative. I'm in favour of wind power. The Moderates are for all types of energy. But I'm just as much against wind power when someone gets their habitat destroyed. We can see on SVT from Norrbotten, for example, how those who live in Pajala were in favour of wind power and had their lives destroyed. In order for this not to happen in more places, Madam President, it is very important that Boverket be instructed by the government to take psychosocial and noise considerations into account. This is how we regulate many other areas from Boverket. They guide municipalities and say: This is what you have to do. You can't do this. It must not be the case that the government has ideological reasons for this. Nuclear power has been decommissioned, which means that one kilowatt hour in Skåne now costs 8, 50. We can see that Swedbank today comes with a report showing that the purchasing power of a two-child family in Sweden this year will fall by SEK 2,800 a month because of the government's energy policy. Now, of course, this expansion of wind power affects people's living environment. Then it will not help and it is not enough for the Government to say in its answer: That means nothing, Madam President. What could really matter to the people now affected by wind power expansion is that the government is open, transparent and honest and says: Let Boverket be the national authority that helps guide people so that they don't get their habitat destroyed! When it comes to psychosocial considerations, it can be about those who live along the coast in Gävle and who do not want them to look like a Liseberg. You have settled by the sea because you want to hear the wind. You want to see the darkness. You want to see the horizon. So you don't want to see a carnival. This can be about those who live in Hedesunda outside Gävle and who have chosen to live out in the forest because they want to stay close to nature. If you wanted to live next to Liseberg or Gröna Lund, you would probably have moved there. So people are upset and abandoned. They feel run over. It would be a certainty if there was an instruction to all municipalities in Sweden from Boverket, which is the government's expert authority. For example, the failure to do so could be due to fears that it would hamper the expansion of wind power. But I mean, man has to go first in this. People must be able to live throughout Sweden without the risk of having their local environment destroyed, just like the Minister for Energy, who does not want wind power in Nacka.
i-RS772X757pg9twNKbmkj7u	Madam President, I would like I'd like to bring up the municipal veto. I understand that there will be a change, but will the change be the one Per Bolund is threatening with? Let us say that at an early stage a municipality is taking a stand for the construction of wind power. Then there will be elections, and this will be an election issue. After the election you change the regime, whether it is red or blue, in a municipality. The new regime does not want this. They make a statement that they do not want wind power. What will apply then? After all, it is municipal democracy that voters choose the politicians they want, and certain issues are more sensitive than others. It is also remarkable, I think, that the government is making proposals to simplify wind power expansion when it makes things difficult for everything else, for example for Cementa. Now the government has decided that it may remain for a short time. But you have a complicated environmental code that makes it almost impossible for many companies to establish themselves. We do not want to do anything about this. Reforming the environmental code is absolutely necessary. It is a hygiene factor, I think. If we are to have a functioning business and create new real jobs, we need to simplify it. It's way too complicated. Some establishments take between 12 and 15 years, and the business idea may already be dead. I think the Government understands this, but I still have to ask because I think this is important.
i-VPYF2X7bfWJDd4GmF9AsqC	Madam President, I would like Thanks to Lars Beckman and Kjell Jansson for the commitment they show! First of all, I shall take the discussion back to the issue on which this interpellation debate is based and repeat what I said at the beginning. I am aware that wind power expansion requires good planning to reduce the risk of inconvenience and create good living environments. This is an important aspect of wind power expansion. The risk of noise interference and other environmental impacts should be described objectively and should not be reduced during the process. People's concerns about noise, visual influences and changes should, of course, be taken seriously. I would therefore also like to say something perhaps more specific about noise levels. Generally speaking, noise reporting must always be carried out when testing wind turbines, whether they are individual works or major parks. Estimated noise levels shall be reported for all homes affected by noise emissions from wind turbines but also for other noise-sensitive locations, such as open-air areas. When measuring the guide value, it is important to take into account many factors – everything from changing wind directions to more wind turbines nearby. For example, each park can meet the guide value, but if they are running at the same time, the overall effect can exceed the noise level. The fact that limit values are exceeded is, of course, unacceptable. If, after a wind turbine has been put into operation, it turns out that guide values or noise conditions are exceeded, it is advisable to switch to noise-reduced operation in order to lower the levels so that the values are met. This is important. Having said that, I still wonder a little about the background to today's question as this is not the first or even the second time Lars Beckman has asked the government the same question. Three times Lars Beckman has asked the same question, and three times he has received the answer that what he is asking already exists and is done by the Swedish authorities. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency guides around noise during the construction of new wind turbines, and Boverket guides around noise during the construction of new homes. Why are the Moderates so concerned that Boverket will do what the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency already does? The Government has also not received any complaints or requests from the municipalities regarding the guidance available, neither regarding the Environmental Protection Agency's guidance on the establishment of wind turbines nor regarding Boverket's guidance on new construction of housing. If it is now the case that Lars Beckman has views on how the municipalities then use the guidance, the question should also be addressed there. When testing wind turbines, whether according to the Environmental Code or the Planning and Construction Act, it is included to test the impact on the landscape image, the natural and cultural values on the site, the impact on human health and the interest in a good overall impact. With regard to the recent legislative referral and municipal self-determination, I see the proposal as a means of promoting the expansion of wind power while maintaining the right of municipalities to say yes or no. The fact that companies are given better and clearer conditions to plan and allocate their resources while the municipal veto remains should be in line with what Beckman says he wants to achieve, i.e. that he is positive to all types of energy while municipalities should have an influence in the process. The answer is, of course, also addressed to Kjell Jansson.
i-XQRw9bKTscq2haXp5nrj7R	Madam President, I would like It is natural to put this question to a new minister who comes in with new energy, is responsible for housing and should reasonably be interested in the fact that wind power expansion can take place in such a way that what happened in Pajala does not happen. I understand that the Minister does not take part of Sweden's Television news in Norrbotten, but as a former Norwegian resident I often read Norrbotten media. The wind power park changed the lives of the Pajala family and was forced to shut down camping. Around 30 wind turbines changed the life of the Henriksson family in the village of Kulmungi, south of Pajala, radically. They have laid down their wilderness camping, paid over $100,000 for new windows and seen wildlife around the farm decrease. The only time it's quiet, and you can sit on the large porch of the house, is when it's still, says Anders Henriksson. Anders and his family's farm is closest to Maevaara wind farm with about 30 wind turbines. For 17 years he ran a wilderness campsite with horse riding. But when the wind turbines were installed, he put the company down. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like You might think that Lars Beckman is a tough guy who asks the same question three times. I understand that. But Lars Beckman is on the side of the little man. Lars Beckman is on the same side as the one who has his house in Pajala and has his life ruined. I understand that it is far from Stockholm and Rosenbad up to Pajala. I understand that. But I do not understand why a newly-saved Minister for Housing does not want to stand on the side of man rather than on the side of expansion. So I'm in favour of wind power, I just want to say. I'm for all kinds of energy. But I'm not for ruining people's lives. I am not in favour of anyone who has their house in the Söderhamn archipelago being allowed to live in the middle of a carnival. I am not because those who live in the forest in Hedesunda outside Gävle and who have chosen to do so so that they want to live in nature should have to live as at Gröna Lund. Then I think it is directly irresponsible for the government not to give a mission to its own expert authority to consider how to deal with wind power expansion so that this happened to the family in Pajala will not happen again. If the Minister takes a moment to google tonight, he will see that the story from Pajala is not the only one. There is something that does not work with the Environmental Protection Agency's guidance to the municipalities. If it had worked, Madam President, not so many people around Sweden would have had their lives affected in the negative sense that they have had. I'm starting from reality. Reality is like a good starting point when you are a Member of Parliament instead of starting from something wishful thinking. The reality is, then, that there is now an extension that affects a great many people negatively. It may be that the Minister has full faith in the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and how it works there, but answer the question how this family in Pajala or any other family in Sweden – there are examples in every county where wind power expansion takes place – have had their lives destroyed if this now works. If it works as well as the Minister says and Lars Beckman is so difficult and has asked this question three times, how can so many people have had their lives ruined? It is reasonable that, if you get the same results over and over again, you have to make a change! The government has an expert authority for this. Imagine being a minister in the Swedish government and being able to give a commission to Boverket and say: Make sure this that happened to the family in Norrbotten, or a family somewhere else, does not happen again! That is why I am asking this question. The Government will have the opportunity to debate this issue many more times if the Government does not act.
i-StNDnd4DwX2DyT9izELq5k	Madam President, I would like Thanks to Lars Beckman! I am sure that we will have more opportunities to see ourselves in these seats both on this issue and on other issues. With regard to the issue of wind power, I believe that it must also be put in context. It's about the big green transition that we're in the middle of. The new, green populace that is emerging creates the conditions for growth and new, sustainable jobs across the country. This is why the government is now creating the conditions for significantly increased electricity generation and making record investments in the core network. It is smart for both the climate and our common society and Sweden's competitiveness. We have already started by enabling increased electricity generation, especially in southern Sweden, by facilitating offshore wind power. It is a major challenge that requires everything from shortening permit periods to training the many people who will be working on this record expansion in the next few decades. Perhaps most importantly, we should do this as cost-effectively and cheaply as possible. Industry is clear: you need wind power, and you need it now. But all of this also requires us to create acceptance for the new production. Here Lars Beckman highlights an important city-country perspective on the issue. The expansion of wind power must be sustainable for those living and operating around it. If that's the case, we're on the same page. Few people suggest wind or nuclear power plants at Stortorget in Gävle. Similarly, for rural areas too, the policy must be able to take into account more parameters than just the amount of electricity generation when we build new power plants, whether it be wind, nuclear, solar or hydro. Noise, as I have explained in my previous speeches, is just such a variable that needs to be taken into account for wind power – and which is already being weighed in today. However, it is important that these balances are made on reasonable grounds. Nevertheless, the government does not, as I have the feeling that the Moderates are doing, use people's legitimate criticisms and experiences as an excuse to wage a struggle against a single force. Nowhere do I think it is clearer than when discussing offshore wind power. If the Moderates are really worried about people's environment, why do they stop the expansion of offshore wind power, which would actually also reduce the pressure on land where people live, as in Lars Beckman Gävleborg? This is the description of a place where offshore wind power is planned, 50 kilometres outside the nearest inhabited island: If you have binoculars, you can probably see the tips of about ten wind turbines – if the weather is clear. But then they disappear under the horizon. This opposes the Moderates locally. In this way, the Moderates may be the single biggest obstacle to new, cheap and green electricity. They say total no to at least 50 terawatt hours of new electricity, i.e. about one third of Sweden's total electricity use. In light of this, the three times Lars Beckman has stood in this pulpit and asked for more authority building and more bureaucratic charges for wind power building speaking. In view of this, I would like to ask whether Lars Beckman can explain why the Moderates are preventing not only offshore wind turbines outside Stockholm, which could produce as much as the entire Forsmark, but also a park outside Bohuslän and another park in Trelleborg. It is wind farms that the industry claims to need for the green transition and the new jobs that are emerging in Sweden.
i-Uq2pj55e1HUDDm1WicnmmY	Madam President, I would like I have full respect for the fact that the Government does not read Gefle Dagblad, but if the Government had done so, he would have read my party friend Pekka Seitola's article with the title. It was published yesterday, and I myself signed similar articles. Madam President, I would like The Moderates in Gävleborg say exactly that: Build far away in the sea so that it is not visible. That is the essence of the glorious democracy, of municipal self-government. In municipal democracy, the Moderates of Gävleborg say: Build out into the sea so we don't have to see! That is what our local politicians say. I say: I am happy to build, but it should also be competitively neutral so that we do not see subsidies. I think the Minister should go home and read Pekka Seitola and Anders Fogeus' debate article in Gefle Dagblad. It is an excellent debate article. We Moderates want more wind power. This is how you argue that the beautiful coastline should not be destroyed, but that offshore wind power should be built. Pekka Seitola, Anders Fogeus and myself have written I do not know how many debate articles on this theme: Build offshore wind power. Then other Moderates can come up with other things. It's democracy. Now this interpellation is not about offshore wind power, but in this interpellation I asked three simple and straightforward questions. The main question was: Does the new Minister of Housing intend to give a commission to Boverket, its own expert authority, to guide how wind power expansion regarding noise, psychosocial living conditions or other factors should take place so that there is no negative impact on the local residents? The answer after the interpellation debate is: No, the Socialist Government does not intend to do that. I am sorry, Madam President. I suffer from the people who are now affected by the wind power expansion, who have their lives ruined. I'm sorry about that.
i-Y4pjvkZC8hyK7uWJfyhqWB	Madam President, I would like I thank Lars Beckman for this debate. We hope that some of the moderate-controlled municipalities around Sweden, which are not wise like Lars Beckman and the Moderates in Gävle, but are opposed to offshore wind power, may lose power in their municipalities in the elections so that, just like in Gävle, we may be able to find majorities for offshore wind power. It is a wind power that the industry needs today. As far as the questions put by Lars Beckman are concerned, I was already clear in my first speech to the debate that, as my predecessors have explained, there is already guidance on the issue of noise and wind power. There are also clear processes to follow if limits are exceeded. Other considerations must also be taken into account in the granting of wind power. With regard to the question of strengthening local democracy, I have referred in the debate to the legislative referral recently presented by the government. This means that the influence of municipalities remains at the same time as the forms are clarified. This is really important in order to achieve what we agree on, i.e. that companies have a planning horizon, that they can prioritise where they put their resources and investments so that wind power is put in place. At the same time, municipalities should retain the opportunity to say yes or no to wind power establishments. In this way, I believe we will find a balance in which we safeguard local democracy, while at the same time creating the conditions for the wind power needed in the municipalities where the municipalities so wish. Madam President, I would like Once again, I thank Lars Beckman for the debate.
