i-iJ1qo8sVjnKDjUgsar8JM	Madam President, I would like Now we are here again and are going to make inefficient tax subsidies that do not lead to more jobs. The only party prepared to defend resources for social security systems is the Left Party. It's bad. Instead, the money could be used, for example, to increase pensions widely. Madam President, I would like The part of the employer's contribution to health insurance, unemployment insurance and occupational injury insurance has been significantly reduced. Instead, what is called the general salary contribution has multiplied. It was introduced in 1995, including to finance Sweden's membership of the EU, but was then only 11⁄2 per cent of the salary. Now it's many times bigger. The share of health insurance has been more than halved since 2006. It has never been lower than today. Of course, there is a connection between this and all the insurance of people who are sick and who have actually been entitled to compensation. Whoever says otherwise is not honest, and honest should be. The Alliance gave away our abandoned wage space through huge tax cuts of hundreds of billions. They gave our money to those who had the most. Pensioners, unemployed and sick were punished and even received higher taxes – punitive taxes that only we in the Left Party proposed would be removed in our draft budget for this year. Now the treasure chest is being emptied again. The other parties take the hard-earned crowns and call it bets. The reduction in the social security contribution that we taxpayers have had to cough up for costs a total of around 30 billion. In 2022 it costs 8 billion. Madam President, I would like The current Prime Minister, Magdalena Andersson, said earlier about the Alliance's cuts in employers' contributions for young people that it is an expensive reform without any effect on employment. But it was then. Now she herself has given away 18 billion of our collectively abandoned salary space without creating a single new job, as she herself said. Madam President, I would like Our money ends up in the pockets of employers like McDonalds, who hires many young people in the restaurant business. This term of office became a very Happy Meal to the elite, I have to say. It is quite astounding, of course, that the Social Democrats continue to implement the irresponsible and wasteful economic policies of the Center Party, despite the fact that they have so far received nothing back. The Center Party votes for a right-wing nationalist budget, but the government continues to confiscate and hopes that the Center Party will give something back this time. But doing the same thing over and over again and expecting another result has rarely worked. Madam President, I would like There's a difference between people and people. How do you think when you act so recklessly with our money? This is exactly what it is – our money. It's not a handout, it's our abandoned payspace. The Fiscal Council, set up by the Alliance itself, says that reducing employers' contributions for young people is an expensive and inefficient measure. The Swedish National Audit Office and economists from right to left agree. Several heavy-duty referrals are highly critical of today's proposals. Among other things, the Employment Service, Saco and TCO disagree, as they consider the strengthening of the reduction in employers' contributions to be an inefficient way of increasing youth employment. The Swedish Financial Control Agency and the Swedish Employers' Agency express doubts about the effect of the proposal for the same reasons. According to the Konjunkturinstitutet, there is a significant risk that the proposal will essentially subsidise existing jobs or jobs that had come into existence anyway. Therefore, I have to say once again that it is remarkable that only the Left Party is against this in Parliament. Madam President, I would like Why do we not focus on young people who find it difficult to enter the labour market? The answer is sad but simple: It is not a policy for more jobs you want. This risks further undermining social security systems, but politicians do not listen. There will be billions of people who could have been spent on health insurance or pensions. It is shameful to accept a reduction in employers' contributions, which leads to increased profits in large restaurant chains, while at the same time doubting the decision to be taken here this spring to raise the pensions of Swedish pensioners. The Green Party, the Social Democrats and the Left Party have agreed that 1 million pensioners can get an average increase of SEK 770 per month. Half a million pensioners can receive SEK 1 000 a month tax-free. But it depends on the fact that the other parties, which are now happy to use employees' money for large tax subsidies, are also prepared to open their wallets when it comes to Sweden's pensioners. For the Left Party, which has pushed this and made this demand for the government, the elections are simple. I would therefore like to support the Left Party's reservation.
i-ETvzZxZAjaeCTjMHpvfoMV	Madam President, I would like As far as the matter is concerned, we have heard: a temporary increase in the reduction in employers' contributions for people between 18 and 23 years of age. This happened last year. It was part of managing the economy and managing jobs for young people during the pandemic. We may have to remind ourselves that the pandemic is not quite over yet. In fact, the government and the Parliament received praise from the Corona Commission for Sweden's well-recovery and for the good financial decisions that were made. It is now being assessed that this is also needed this summer, and we Social Democrats support it. I therefore support the committee's proposal.
i-WJkfs8B9UcQQ29TQGssvr6	Madam President, I would like The pandemic has been terrible in many ways. Families have been dismissed by loved ones, people have lost their jobs and people have seen their life's work crumble. Many companies and individuals have had a difficult and tough time during the pandemic. Now we are finally in a new phase. We get hugging, the concert venues fill up, you get to dance at the restaurant and the companies avoid severe restrictions. Sweden has recovered relatively well and stands in many ways quite steady after the pandemic. Nevertheless, we will need incentives for some time to come in order to get to the top of the track again. Since the government presented this proposal, there have been further developments in the world around us, and Putin's invasion war in Ukraine has increased the need for incentives rather than diminished. A reduction in employers' contributions for young people between the ages of 19 and 23 is absolutely necessary. The proposal will meet many of the companies, businesses and industries most affected during the pandemic, industries where students and other young people get summer jobs: tourism, culture, restaurant and so on. It is therefore a good thing that there will be a reduction in employers' contributions in June, July and August this year.
i-V6fD8KYRb4v6n1vk9xVbSD	Madam President, I would like As a Christian Democrat, I am fundamentally in favour of proposals that lead to reduced taxes and contributions on labour, and here we now have a proposal for a reinforced reduction in employers' contributions for 19 – 23-year-olds in the summer of 2022. It should therefore be easy to say yes to this measure, but I would still like to drill a bit into it and ask a few questions. The first reason to problematise this a little is that research shows that it is a relatively expensive measure that has little effect. There are other measures that are both cheaper and more effective. That is why we Christian Democrats have proposed a double tax credit for people up to 23 years of age who have subsidised employment or other labour market policies or are long-term unemployed or newly arrived. For many people who are far from the labour market, the economic benefit of getting a job can be very small. When taxes and job travel have been paid and income-related allowances and compensations have been reduced, it is not certain that there will be so much left in the wallet compared to before. The second reason I asked to speak is that I would like a response from the Social Democrats. This is a replay of a measure carried out in the summer of 2021, and since it has already been done, it would be interesting for all of us to take part in the evaluation, i.e. what the measure led to. Has there been an analysis of the effects, and what was the result? I think it is very reasonable for us politicians to strive to spend time, energy and money on things that have an effect and that take us in the direction we want and that we ensure that tax funds are used in a justifiable way. The impact assessment, which is a basis for whether we should vote yes or no here in Parliament, lacks an account of the positive results that I assume the reform led to because you run a replay on it this summer. However, I think it is important that we in this House are as well informed as possible before we take decisions so that we do not support proposals where we risk throwing money into the sea. My questions to the Social Democrats are therefore: Did the 2021 measure, which is now to be re-run, lead to more people becoming employed? Did it enable people outside the labour market to enter the labour market? If so, where is that evaluation and information? It's missing here.
i-8MUXkUp1DitfShcfn9B4oF	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Eklind for the questions. As I mentioned in my speech, the Corona Commission commended the government and the Parliament for the way in which the financial pieces have been dealt with. We must not forget that there has been a major pandemic, and it is not over yet. A couple of us sitting here were just recently at home for a few days in covid. It's hard to tell how many places it's given. But we can hardly say that the restaurant industry has been doing well during the pandemic. On the contrary, it has been rather poor in economic terms, and we stand by the fact that it needs this.
i-Q5r5HEr4SueopxaVQE5wD9	Madam President, I would like I thank Elsemarie Bjellqvist for her reply, although it was not the answer I wanted. To be honest, the Corona Commission gives the government a slightly different grade. There are things that are meant by emphasic that the government should have done differently and better. But now we are talking about this measure. I am fully aware that the pandemic was part of the reality under which this measure was introduced. Nevertheless, an evaluation is reasonable when a measure is re-implemented that is not completely free of charge. I want the honourable Member to understand that I fully agree that we need to reduce taxes on labour, so basically we agree. What I am asking for is why no evaluation has been carried out so that we can see what this has led to. It is not good enough to say that we have had a pandemic, because the pandemic was one of the reasons why the measure was put in place. It is reasonable that, on the basis of the basis of which the measure was implemented, some sort of impact assessment can be made showing that the measure was correct and correct. If it is correct and correct, it is no problem to implement it again. As I said, I thank you for your answer, but I did not get the answer I wanted. I would have liked to have had some more analysis and figures.
i-P4iXGwyV1yBKHPkyNrnjdy	Madam President, I would like As I understand it, there are currently no figures. But that there was a need for this then and that there is a need even this summer is quite clear. I would like to see the restaurant that says that there has been an over-profit because of this. I don't think it exists. What pandemic measures would the honourable Member like to drive, remove or add instead of this money? Now we have a new situation with a war in our vicinity, and there is also a need for money. And our young people are needed. They need their jobs this summer.
i-4sThmfpYoGh5JriD9G4oyn	Madam President, I would like I believe that the honourable Member and I agree on a great deal. For example, I have raised in this House that the low level of self-sufficiency is a monumental problem. Our common welfare is not created by some secret printing press; it is created by people paying taxes and charges. Basically, we fully agree that we must do something about unemployment, which is hugely high in Sweden. The Social Democrats asked to be evaluated at work when they took office in 2014. I hope that the Social Democrats will be in the electoral movement, because then they will not be allowed to continue to have the power. Today, we are the fourth worst Member State in the European Union in terms of unemployment. What do the Christian Democrats want to do? I mentioned it in my speech. I think it is important to do something, so I am not against the proposal as such. However, if I had been allowed to decide as a Christian Democrat, I would have preferred a double job tax deduction for people up to 23 years old. The reason is simple: on the one hand it is cheaper, and on the other it is more efficient. So there are other measures that can be taken if, like the Member of Parliament and I agree that young people should get to work as quickly as possible. It is not good for young people or for society to go long-term unemployed. This is a situation that we must avoid. I note that I do not receive an answer about the analysis itself and the outcome in 2021, but I would nevertheless like to thank you for the answer.
i-VnBG1mSuyyrSrVwjs78CLP	Madam President, I would like I would like to welcome those who listen. The pandemic is not over but is beginning to feel more distant, so you need to be reminded here at the podium of taking hand alcohol before talking. As I said, Pandemin is not over, but yesterday I could finally read that there is no one in Region Skåne who is in intensive care because of covid. It is therefore moving in the right direction and is beginning to feel more distant, but unfortunately we have had other major problems such as crisis and war. Pandemin hit hard in different ways, both here in Sweden and around the world. Of course, the worst was many deaths with covid and many severely ill and long - term ills. But the pandemic has also been socially affected. A child who is four years old has now lived half his life with the pandemic and its limitations. And it has hit hard economically, not least for many companies. We have put in extensive financial support packages from the Riksdag in many rounds, but nevertheless it has been a tough period, which is not over either. The proposal we are discussing today is to temporarily reduce employers' contributions for young people between 18 and 23 years of age during the summer months. This is something that will make things easier for the companies that have had a difficult time, and it has not become less urgent in the light of the war and the new crisis in which we are in the midst. Madam President, I would like Several evaluations have been carried out over the years of reduced social security contributions, whether it is effective or not and the employment effects it has. We have heard about this in previous speeches. Now that we are in a period like this, I think you need to look at it more broadly. The fact that this can lead to more young people getting a summer job is extremely important, and if it is an effect it is of course great. But there are also other effects in this situation, where business has had such a tough time. There is a broad consensus in the House behind the proposal. There is only one party that is against, namely the Left Party. One could say that the Left Party has been consistent. They have criticised this in the past and are almost always opposed to reduced taxes on labour. The Left Party has changed its mind on a number of other points recently, but they choose not to do this. Madam President, I would like In her speech, Ida Gabrielsson talked about the effects on social security systems, pensions and so on. So it's 11⁄2 billion it's all about. For those who do not know the state budget in detail, it is not a figure that would bring about a revolution in the pension system, but it would have an impact on small companies in Sandviken or in Söderhamn, where I grew up. These are small cities where companies want to hire in the summer, and this proposal reduces the cost of this. However, the Left Party chooses instead to reconsider its policy in other areas. They choose to join forces with the Swedish Democrats and others to lower taxes on petrol and diesel and on oil and emissions. This destroys the climate even more and also locks us further into the dependence on oil. It benefits not only Putin Russia but also other authoritarian regimes, such as Iran and Saudi Arabia. I think this is a remarkable priority, Madam President. With this, I call for the proposal in the report to be approved.
i-8bqHyYnZHrJqozpx39H3Q1	Madam President, I would like I thank the honourable Member, who was on a slightly different track. The Left Party believes that various pandemic measures are important, but that it is good to use the measures that work best. The restaurant industry is one of the sectors that has recovered best from the pandemic. The Left Party believes that support can be directed to small companies, for there are an enormous number of 19 – 23-year-olds who work at the largest restaurant chains. During this term of office, the employer's contribution has been reduced by 30 billion. The honourable Member thinks it is small potatoes, but for 1 1⁄2 billion you could increase the compensation by 1 000 SEK per month for the sick pensioners. You could also invest in those young people who need a job and in those situations where it is very neglected. I am thinking of home care and care, where we could have targeted support to make it cheaper to hire young people who are far from the labour market. I understand that Rasmus Ling believes it is an incredibly important industry support to the restaurant industry. That is, of course, a priority. I note that other parts of the pandemic measures are ending. This concerns, for example, the right to receive compensation when you are ill and the withdrawal from the pension. That kind of stuff should be accepted, and the measures should not be extended until the investigation is completed. Then I hear that Rasmus Ling is passionate about the gas tax. The Left Party is generally in favour of a reasonable petrol tax, and we have exercised it. The Green Party forgot to exercise, so they vote for our motion. In a situation where people are ruined when they are going to work, we want to do it differently because it is effective. Your action today is ineffective, Rasmus Ling, and that is why we are opposed.
i-33HHKCXdbFVLLz6yLMu1pK	Madam President, I would like Ida Gabrielsson thought I was on different tracks, but it was nothing in comparison. We agree on several of the points raised by the honourable Member. We have made reinforcements for the local government sector to improve home care. As far as the withdrawal is concerned, we also agree. But in other parts we differ. When Ida Gabrielsson talks it seems that 19 to 23-year-olds would work only at Max hamburger restaurants or in the restaurant sector in general. That is not what it looks like, Madam President. 19 – 23-year-olds, of course, work in different places just as older people do. I find it remarkable that it is completely overlooked that the money is needed in this situation and instead chooses to target the money to make petrol cheaper. 11⁄2 billion is not small potatoes. I didn't say that either. But this money would simply not be enough for the effects that Ida Gabrielsson referred to earlier. Madam President, I would like I maintain that it is a very bad policy to invest in increased emissions and cheaper petrol instead of investing in measures which, on the one hand, can take us out of what we have seen during the pandemic, and, on the other hand, can enable us now to get away from oil dependence and reduce this vulnerability, and reduce revenues to both Russia and other authoritarian regimes that receive their main funding through oil money.
i-SHfyZ8bs5tNcxEC4Vr7e86	Madam President, I would like That would certainly be enough. We have negotiated the changes to health insurance that have been made. And 1 1⁄2 billion would be enough for 1,000 kronor for the sick pensioners. It would also be sufficient for major reinforcements in terms of regulatory changes. The proposals we have decided on this year do not even amount to 1 billion. We are talking about millions in these parts. What we are now discussing is about this year. It is not a question of taking this money instead and spending it on a reduction in the tax on petrol. It would be expensive for 27-year-olds and 19-23-year-olds if they are to work in Sandviken or in Söderhamn, as Rasmus Ling said- if they are to get to the McDonald's restaurant that doesn't pay very much. The government's basis and the proposal advocated by the honourable Member show that this is sector aid. Above all, the restaurant industry is highlighted and it has been on its knees. And that's where a lot of young people work. That is why I am highlighting this aspect. All research and all the combined knowledge of this shows that, when you want to invest in those who have left the labour market, you should invest in those who are long-term unemployed. You should make targeted bets and not this kind of very expensive and smudged action. The Corona Commission has not in any way said that this particular measure is very good; it has said that it has acted quickly and expansively during the pandemic. There are parts there that I agree with. But this particular measure is ineffective and does not lead to more jobs. This is not just about this additional reduction, it is about 30 billion. They could be used to increase pensions widely.
i-SxJaWHUp8p8HNzSgPRqQFQ	Madam President, I would like We have put forward proposals to increase pensions. So on this issue we also agree. This proposal will be put on the table of Parliament. We will vote in favour of it, and we hope that it will win a majority. But that our two parties will support it I feel safe with. Madam President, I would like Ida Gabrielsson says nothing more about their turn around that the Left Party now wants to increase emissions and tie us closer to oil dependence. She says it's necessary for a 27-year-old to get to a job at McDonald's. Yes, it can certainly be. But the best thing would be for us, Madam President, to have such a transition that we were not dependent on fluctuations in the global oil market and have the situation that we have now, but instead can become self-sufficient and can have cars that run on renewable fuels, on electricity and on biofuels. It would have been a very much better situation. I regret that the Left Party has turned and instead wants to continue to depend on and benefit the countries that I have lined up.
i-LL5AqWGgSm9rx1rrGJRdEP	Madam President, I would like I shall not take so much of this House's time for a matter on which we have fundamentally taken a position on earlier occasions. With this report, we urgently ensure that the final implementation of Swedish legislation is achieved. First of all, I would like to ask for the approval of the Government proposal, which is also the committee's proposal, and for reservations 1 and 2. The matter itself and the EU regulation to be implemented are good and necessary. Basically, it is about how we make the authorities' work more effective in keeping track of who is in the EU countries. What we are now doing is complementing the provisions of the legislation on the obligation to provide biometric data, in this case fingerprints and facial image, for identification and control, and that they should also be able to be left, for example, during automated processing or internal control in the country. When this is implemented throughout the EU, it means that there is greater scope for rapid checks on a person and a person's right to stay in the EU, for how long and under what conditions. Through joint management and digitalisation, opportunities for getting hold of people who are illegally trying to enter the EU are increased. But we also increase the possibility of being able to quickly control people who already exist in Sweden, for example, and who do not have the right to stay here. There is a broad consensus both in the Swedish Parliament and in the EU to improve and streamline the authorities' ability to control that people are not illegal within the EU. Not least in view of the fact that we also have a desire for free movement between EU countries, we need both effective controls at the EU's external border and controls within individual countries. In the report, the committee proposes two announcements. Since, on both points, there is a so-called false majority, that is to say, a majority which means that if this House votes in accordance with the parties' positions in committee, there is not a majority in this House, I am in favour of both our reservations. One relates to the use of the concept of biometric data, and the other relates to the elimination of biometric data. Our reservations suggest that the Riksdag does not have to make these announcements, and for a little different reasons. In the main, however, one can say that the government is well aware of the views that have emerged, both in terms of the concept of biometric data and in terms of culling. And with regard to the question of elimination, the government has announced that it will return to the issue in a regulation. For these reasons, we believe that there is no need for announcements on these issues. The important thing about the proposal that we are now discussing is that we get legislation in place when introducing the system so that we can both streamline border controls and provide improved tools to both the Migration Agency and law enforcement authorities.
i-Sj6wojMR79MhZFtNveA1Lc	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 3. Madam President, I would like Today's debate is about Swedish law being adapted to the EU's new entry and exit system. A prerequisite for the functioning of the European Union is that we have free movement within the Union. It also requires us to carry out checks at our external borders, that is to say, against third countries. In order to make entry and exit more efficient for third-country nationals who are entitled to reside in the territory of the Member States, our authorities, both nationally and within the EU, should have the same opportunities to collect biometric data and data through equivalent legislation. By enabling the authorities to collect biometric data and data, we can prevent irregular migration. We can identify, detect and combat terrorism and other serious crime that wants to enter the territory of the European Union. This requires, however, that Swedish authorities receive legislation that they can relate to. Among other things, the Police Authority has pointed out that there is a need for greater clarity regarding Swedish law and European law when it comes to biometric data, so that the authorities can work effectively. Madam President, I would like We are seeing a growing shadow society in Sweden today, with too many who have been refused their asylum applications. This has meant that the Migration Agency cannot fulfil its task. A growing shadow society is a bad thing both for the individual and for society. It is a country's duty to know who is on its territory for many different reasons. From the Moderates' side, we believe that the Migration Agency is one of the authorities that will be given the opportunity to keep data even when the matter has been closed. We believe that the data should be culled at the earliest either when the person has become a Swedish citizen or when it has been ten years. The reason for this is that the authorities should be able to work effectively and detect persons who have provided incorrect information. I can take an example of serious crime. Georgia has an agreement with the EU that Georgian citizens may remain within the European Union for up to 90 days. However, Georgia has not made use of biometric data. In the past, it has been very easy for people in serious organised crime to acquire a new identity, i.e. a new name and a new personal identity number. What has been done, among other things, is to go to countries in the European Union, one of which is Sweden, and to seek asylum under false identity. You commit crimes, and if you don't get caught, you go back to Georgia and then you come back to Europe with a new identity. The finger always comes along, and so does the face. If our authorities are allowed to take fingerprints and a facial image, it will not help if the person returns with another identity, because the finger and facial recognition do not lie. Therefore, it is important that our law enforcement authorities and the Migration Agency are given the opportunity to save data longer than proposed in the bill. I request the approval of reservation 3.
i-RAiSjzYTBxWNY6NaM4fMgb	Madam President, I would like It is extremely important for the credibility of the Union in general that the rules of foreign law in particular are modern, well-functioning and effective. For the common elements of the regulatory framework to work, all pieces must be in place. With these two regulations, adopted in 2017, the regulatory framework is getting a little better. However, we still believe that it leaves some things to be desired, especially in view of the pressures that the Union is facing in terms of large volumes of asylum seekers and, most recently, a huge amount of people living in the Union under the mass refugee directive. It is also about the EU's general attractiveness as the labour market. Many people come to Europe to work and fill gaps in the internal labour market. It is of course very important that this is done in a way that makes cheating, trafficking and other types of crime more difficult. This may be true, not least in the light of the visa agreements that the Union has with the Eastern Partnership, and I think this was an interesting example that the Member from the Moderates highlighted. The proposal now on the table is, as has been said, based on two regulations adopted in 2017. The matter has therefore already been decided in that part, and this will now be implemented in Swedish law. One of these is usually referred to as the Entry/Exit Regulation, and the other is referred to as the Regulation amending the Border Code. In short, the proposals essentially require a foreigner entering the Union to provide fingerprints and to be photographed in order to verify his identity against the EES database and to change certain rules regarding the processing of personal data. That is, above all, where our proposals come in. In the report, the committee proposes two announcements to the government, but as I said, it is only the committee's proposal; it is not the case that there is a majority in this House for this. This is the case when biometric data are to be culled and the definition of biometric data in legislation, which are two important issues per se. The Member of the Socialist Party has now announced that the government is revising the elimination deadline, and that is very positive. Our party, the Swedish Democrats, also has two reservations in the report. I request the approval of reservation 4. Of course, we support the aim of these rules, namely to improve control of external borders, prevent irregular migration, facilitate the management of regular, legal migration flows and so on. However, we believe that the discrepancy between Swedish law and EU law as regards the definition of the concept of biometrics is not good and that, in order to counter future problems in the application of law, this needs to be clarified. We also think that the elimination period for biometric data should be extended to ten years, which is important not least from a law enforcement perspective. In a situation where we have fewer foreign controls than we would actually need and where we see widespread human trafficking, there is a great value in being able to easily identify people even for some time after they have entered the country. We also believe that biometric data entered in the context of an authorisation dossier should not have to be destroyed until the matter is finally resolved or until the person concerned actually leaves the Union. We also believe that the entry and exit of third-country nationals into the Schengen area should be registered even if they have, for example, a residence permit or a right of residence. The fact that border authorities will no longer stamp third-country nationals' passports is perhaps the biggest change that will be evident from these proposals. Otherwise, information on travel is lost on third-country nationals exempted under this proposal.
i-JuD4Y1pWEYCqAsFAaZXGzm	Madam President, I would like Today, in fact, the possibility of controlling who resides within the Schengen area is being improved. We will have better opportunities to combat illegal migration, as two EU regulations to create a common entry and exit system entail adaptations of Swedish law. Here we simply see how the EU can make Sweden safer, but we also see how the Social Democrats choose to undermine parts that could have made it even a little better. It may seem to be small details, but the details can be of great importance. We, the Christian Democrats, have made some proposals that we believe would mean strengthening Swedish security, and I would like to explain them. Madam President, I would like One question is how long biometric data should be saved. We believe that Sweden should make use of the possibility to save biometric data even after a decision. We have repeatedly highlighted the need to store biometric data. The proposal proposes that many of these data should be deleted immediately after they have been entered, for example when an alien has received a no on his/her application for a residence permit. This is unfortunate for a number of reasons. On the one hand, the individual must resubmit biometric data if he or she appeals against the decision and, on the other hand, the relevant data will be lost if this person chooses to deviate before a deportation has been carried out. We know that people who are refused asylum applications still choose not to leave the country. A serious consequence is that we have a shadow society that is growing. We have a shadow society where people are at risk of exploitation and where there are people who are prepared to carry out actions that cause great harm to others and society. Therefore, we believe that there should be an opportunity to save biometric data after a case has been decided in order to be able to use the data in the execution of an expulsion decision. In 2015, the Finnish Immigration Service wrote as follows: Through information provided by the public and police, we have discovered people who have a residence permit but who have applied for asylum in another identity. We have come across Swedish citizens of foreign origin who have applied for asylum. There are persons who have been granted a residence permit for reasons of attachment and then apply for asylum in another identity. This is why we need to ensure that biometric data can be saved. Few in this House live well in the error that we do not have problems with the identity issue here in Sweden. Madam President, I would like We also have another detail to which I support, and that is the Christian Democrats' reservation number 6 on this matter. We see that there is a reason for continuing to stamp travel documents. If the stamping of travel documents ends, it leads to difficulties for the Migration Agency, for example, to handle citizenship matters correctly as data on the time of stay is lost e, and the time of stay just happens to be one of the criteria to be met by an applicant. We really want a high level of legal certainty. It is important and is based on not withholding tools for authorities responsible for this, for they should be able to create a correct basis for making decisions from outside. The Finnish Immigration Service points out in its referral that they do not have access to the travel history and that it becomes more difficult to investigate residence and previous stay. We agree with the Migration Agency's criticism and therefore want to continue to be able to stamp passports.
i-JTSbtfpvZYfNENvMsqTE6n	Madam President, I would like We are now going to debate the Social Security Committee's report Foreigners in Sweden without permission. According to the committee, the government should come back with proposals as stated by the committee on a number of issues, such as more effective exchange of information between authorities, increased information obligations for authorities and municipalities, DNA analysis in the event of certain family immigration, reporting obligations for asylum seekers, housing obligations and electronic monitoring, extended limitation periods for expulsion decisions, more readmission agreements and agreements with countries of origin. This proposal for a declaration is supported by the Social Democrats, although we would have expressed ourselves in a different way if it had been our proposal from the outset, and perhaps the proposals would also have looked a little different. The shadow society affects not least those people who live in the country without permission because they run an extra risk of being exploited and subjected to violence and other abuse. Taking action to counter the shadow society is also a matter of protecting Sweden's population and its security. We want, as everyone has probably heard us from the Social Democrats say time and again, to reverse every stone in order to break segregation and promote integration. This report describes, for example, that in cases of residence permits on the basis of family ties, in some cases there is a possibility of having a DNA analysis carried out on the biological relationship referred to in the application. The fact that children are abused or mistreated in various ways after being brought here by people who are not their parents is in itself a reason for the action and that this analysis is made more frequently. We can also read in the report about a duty to report when it comes to people providing contact information to the Finnish Immigration Service in order not to lose the right to housing and grants. In this way, the resources available go more to those who cooperate with the authorities. We can also read that electronic surveillance, for example with a anklet, can be used for persons who have a final decision on expulsion or expulsion. Madam President, I would like I would like to point out that the government is working very actively to counteract and counteract shadow society. More than 94 000 former asylum seekers have left the country since 2014, and Sweden's return rate is above the EU average. Detention capacity has doubled since 2016. The government has led several countries of origin to receive their citizens and to work towards a more effective return. The creation of agreements and agreements does not exclude the use of trade, visas or assistance as a tool. The Police Authority has been given increased opportunities to carry out workplace checks and more tools to use in internal foreigner control, such as facial recognition and fingerprints for identification. An investigation has been set up with the task of identifying the possibilities for exchanging information between authorities, municipalities and unemployment funds in order to ensure that they have access to the information on individuals and businesses that they need to make correct decisions on welfare benefits and to combat occupational crime. Based on the review, the investigation shall assess whether there is a need for revised rules to achieve a more effective and effective exchange of information and, if necessary, also propose necessary constitutional changes, such as whether data should be provided through direct access or on automated processing media, as has been discussed several times in the Social Security Committee. This assignment shall be reported by 30 June of this year. By means of a legislative amendment that entered into force in July 2018, it became a criminal offence to intentionally provide incorrect information as a basis for a civil registration decision if it poses a risk in terms of evidence. The number of cases brought for civil record offences is increasing sharply. In addition, the Swedish Tax Agency has received increased funding and more tools to detect, investigate and correct more errors in public records. It can also be noted that the Government has recently submitted to the Riksdag the proposal "Strengthened and improved rules on labour migration". Many measures have therefore been taken, and more are in the pipeline. Madam President, I would like However, we do not agree with the proposal for a notice on financial support for foreigners residing in Sweden without a permit. I therefore support reservation number 2. The draft committee initiative states, among other things, that legislation should prohibit municipalities from providing financial support to persons who withhold enforcement of a expulsion decision. In our opinion, this is the wrong way to go. The provision in the Social Services Act is a valve that allows municipalities to assume their responsibilities for the existence of an ultimate safety net and thus to meet people's most basic needs in emergency situations. Nor do we believe that there should be any restriction on the autonomy of municipalities and, therefore, their ability to provide voluntary assistance to residents of the municipality. The possibility for municipalities to grant individual support and assistance in emergency situations is also a prerequisite for Sweden to fulfil its obligations under international conventions on human rights. For example, the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which now applies as a Swedish law, states that children have the right to social security and a fair standard of living, such as housing, clothing and food. All legislative measures concerning children should take primary account of the best interests of the child. No discrimination regarding the enforcement of children's rights under the Convention on the Rights of the Child may be made based on the status of migration. These obligations also apply in cases where a person has received a final rejection of his or her application for asylum. Anyone who has received such a decision must, of course, follow it and return to his country of origin. However, as long as the person resides in Sweden, the starting point must be that he or she should be able to receive support in order to have his or her basic needs and rights satisfied. A clarification in the legislation of the legal framework applicable to financial support when persons have received a final rejection of an application for a residence permit would be desirable. The responsibilities and obligations of resident municipalities could be clarified.
i-UcEvztT3A3SWKiJdyTxp74	Madam President, I would like When, today, on 23 March 2022, almost exactly one month after Putin's invasion of Ukraine, we are debating issues relating to illegal migration and shadow society, it is difficult to do so without mentioning the difficult situation that Ukraine is in and that it has led to over 3 1⁄2 million people having left the country in just one month. The absolute majority have crossed the border with Poland and stayed there, but the flows of women and children are moving forward throughout the EU. In recent weeks, approximately 19 000 Ukrainians have registered with the Migration Agency, but the darkness figure for how many have actually crossed the border with Sweden is large, as Ukrainians have visa-free. Poland was extremely restrictive and fought hard to maintain control of its own migration policy during the migration crisis in 2014 and 2015 onwards. Therefore, when a crisis now arises in the immediate vicinity and Poland is the first safe country, there is both great will of the people and great resources to receive the brothers from the East. Sweden chose another route in the 21st century. Political parties fought over who could open their hearts most and tear down the most walls to indiscriminately let in as many as possible, preferably men, without identity documents or passports and without protection. They came from far away countries that few planned to return to other than on vacation. Madam President, I would like This makes Poland's and Sweden's ability to help real refugees, women and children fleeing Putin's bombs in Ukraine very different. In a couple of weeks, Poland has protected twice as many people as Sweden did in the whole of the last decade per capita. Instead, in Sweden we have an ongoing crisis of integration, caused entirely by previous policies, which limit our ability to provide protection. Madam President, I would like An important part of Sweden's capacity deficit is caused by far too poor work on return and expulsions. People come to Sweden in different ways, but once they go home they choose instead to stay and be illegal in the country. They become part of a growing shadow society, which has negative consequences for the entire Swedish society. Of course, the shadow society would have been much smaller with a responsible Swedish democratic migration policy at first, but there are also a large number of measures that should have been taken considerably earlier to reduce incentives to stay here illegally. Of course, the way this legislation is designed and applied also affects the willingness to come to Sweden among rational people who are fully aware that they really lack asylum reasons or other legitimate reasons to come here. But if you know that it is safe to come to Sweden for example to work black or be a part of organised crime, it is of course easier to take the chance. In order to have a reasonable opportunity to receive more Ukrainian war refugees, we must ensure that foreigners who do not have the right to be in Sweden also leave the country. Madam President, I would like After all, something has happened on that front. The Social Security Committee has put forward a proposal for a so-called committee initiative with a number of proposals on how to combat the shadow society and illegal migration. A majority in the committee supports the proposals. We in the Swedish Democrats think this is great; it is precisely the policy and the proposals that we have put forward all these years, but without the support of them in this House, of course. Madam President, I would like As usual, we see it coming. We're not naive. We are carrying out impact assessments and thinking about alternative costs. Let me show you some examples of proposals included in this report, which we naturally support. Example 1 concerns the obligation for municipalities and authorities to contact the Migration Agency and the Police Authority when they encounter illegal migrants. This is a principle that the Swedish Democrats have been talking about for many years and have been proposing formally, in this way, since 2020. Example 2 applies to DNA testing as the main rule for strengthening kinship in the event of family migration. This corresponds to a proposal that the Swedish Democrats have put forward each year during this term of office. Example 3 concerns extended limitation periods for expulsion decisions. One should not be able to go underground and hide and then come forward and seek asylum again. This was proposed by the Swedish Democrats in 2018. We went at the same time and are still going further than others in this proposal. There should be no limitation period at all. If you have an expulsion decision, you should go home, no matter how good you are at playing hide and seek. That is why I am in favour of reservation 3. Madam President, I would like It is a bit out of hand that some parties that are today behind the obligation to notify that I mentioned earlier as recently as a few years ago talked about similar proposals as angiveri laws and that it would remind us of dark times in Europe. But everyone must be given room to change – better late than never. Instead of being sour and grumpy because our proposals are being stolen, repackaged and then announced to the government, I am therefore pleased that the token has fallen down with my colleagues in other parties. There are major problems to be solved, and the more people who become aware of it, the better. What is good for Sweden we in the Swedish Democrats want, no matter who gets the credit for it. We are in a crisis, and we must work together for the good of Sweden. Madam President, I would like I'm gonna tie the bag together. Sweden's aim during the acute crisis with Ukrainian war refugees should be to make room for more of those who come by the fact that more of those who do not have the right to be here actually return. Sweden should not be a haven for illegal migrants. The trend of a growing shadow society must be vigorously broken. Madam President, I would like Let us hope that this initiative for more control and order will be the start of a sharper line on the issue of illegal migrants.
i-6PvDZ3ZEPdWQVyd2JsC8kx	Madam President, I would like For me, the whole construction of society is about looking after each other, acting in solidarity and helping the one at the bottom of the steps. It is about taking joint responsibility for each other and helping each other. That is how we build a strong welfare society and a more equal and fair society. However, I note that there are a majority of parties in this House today who view society in a completely different way. It's darker and more brutal. It has handed over power to the market and privatised Swedish welfare, which has increased the gaps between people. Now they are trying to cover their own failures by blaming the refugees, the most marginalised. However, these are not just any refugees. The distinction between Ukrainian refugees and others reveals once again what you want to shape the public debate with, which are described on the basis of a need for protection and which are demonised. The difference made and the way in which the right of asylum is sorted is nothing more than racism, and that is contrary to the conventions. The measures against the shadow society that are being proposed here and which we are debating today are aimed at making life more difficult for the people who live as undocumented people in Sweden. You do it on the basis of the notion that it'll make them leave the country. It is a policy that has been tried in several stages and always with the same result, namely that vulnerability is increasing. A clear example of this is the amendments to the Act on Reception. Anyone who is refused their asylum application loses the right to assistance and housing. You in here have deprived people of their last opportunity for sustenance and shelter over their heads. What do you think happens to them? What do you think happens to people when you take away their safety, their livelihood and their homes? You are talking about a shadow society that you have created here. It is people who have repeatedly fallen victim to your lack of legislation. Instead of building the work on knowledge and what works and does not work, the blue-brown and unfortunately the Social Democrats have chosen to pursue a policy that aims to get people to leave Sweden by making life worse for them here than what they have fled from. You probably need to do a lot with Sweden to make it worse than the world's most dangerous country Afghanistan, war-torn Syria or oppression is the regime's Eritrea. Above all, it is a very problematic and cynical vision to violate people's rights and freedoms in this way. It is also an ill-considered signal policy that will not bring more people back, but will lead to increased vulnerability and to more people living in the shadow society that the parties here say they want to fight. Now it will be about information obligations for authorities and municipalities, among other things. In other words, we are moving towards an angiveris society. It not only limits people's rights and freedoms, but it also prevents some of society's most vulnerable from seeking the help they need. The Moderates say that they might consider an exception for schooling and health care, but in practice there is a risk that this violates the right to education and health care for undocumented people. This is the reality when rights are associated with the risk of detention and expulsion. It creates greater insecurity for children in an already vulnerable situation. It impairs the contact of families with children with social services. It is also contrary to the principle of the best interests of the child. The same applies to the proposals to prohibit municipalities from handing over emergency financial assistance. It will have devastating consequences and make life even more difficult for children in vulnerable situations. The protection of children is already lacking in many Swedish municipalities, especially for children without a residence permit. Now you are not only tightening up children's rights even more, but you are depriving them of the last security that existed. You are violating children's rights in the worst possible way. It is a disgrace, Madam President. The deepest shadow society, which the parties here claim to want to access, consists of those who do not receive a residence permit but cannot be expelled for various reasons. The reason may be that their country of origin does not accept them or that it is forbidden to expel them, for example if they are at risk of torture. Other reasons may be that they have been lured to Sweden to be exploited and exploited as cheap labour. Over the years, I have met Palestinians who cannot be expelled because they are stateless. But they don't get a residence permit either. I've met Afghans who are stuck in a legal limbo because of the legislation. They haven't made a single mistake. On the contrary, they have done only what is right and right. Madam President, I would like Who are we really talking about? Well, we are talking about those who year after year have fallen victim to Sweden's lack of legal uncertainty that push people out in undocumentedness. You'd rather chase them than correct your own flaws. This is not a situation they have created, but a situation you have created. The right is taking this opportunity to make proposals to reduce the rights of undocumented people. The idea is that if we capture and throw out those who reside in the country without permission, shadow society disappears. The problem will be solved. The right does not mention at all why we have a shadow society, nor who is making money from people being exploited to low wages and poor conditions. It is remarkable but not surprising. I think they know what political decisions have brought us here. Labour immigration legislation needs to be reformed and work crime needs to be stopped. Migration policy must be fundamentally changed. A permanent permit today requires permanent work. The right to family reunification depends on employment and housing. It increases the risk of more people getting caught in the clutches of ruthless employers with poor and risky working conditions so as not to be expelled or squeezed out in paperlessness. As I said, it is remarkable but not surprising that the right is focusing on punishing undocumented workers rather than employers who exploit undocumented workers. We know with certainty that once you have deprived people of their rights and freedoms, they will be easier to exploit. They will be easier to silence and exploit. Just regret it, Madam President. I think I have clearly shown that I am strongly opposed to the proposals presented today. I hereby support the reservations 1 and 2 contained in the report.
i-FyqaAvn3cG5nfYgmBQ91Mw	Madam President, I would like I have a very simple question for Tony Haddou. Is the Left Party for or against regulated immigration in Sweden?
i-Kjv8HkpdoGDje9xopVHoW3	Madam President, I would like We want regulated immigration in Sweden.
i-DeFW9zQ2GWcbUCQucxGi9u	Madam President, I would like Then I wonder why Tony Haddou is talking about a paperless person rather than illegal. It is not about people who somehow lack paper, quite the contrary. Yes, they have no right to be in Sweden, but they are here illegally. They choose not to comply with government decisions and to withdraw from the country, even though they have no reason and have had their case examined in probably the world's most legally secure asylum process. But they choose to go underground instead. If Tony Haddou is in favour of regulated immigration, I wonder how he thinks we should ensure that shadow society shrinks and that people who do not have the right to be here leave the country. Tony Haddou and the Left Party show in all their actions and in everything they say, even here in the pulpit, that they want to make it easier for people who refuse to comply with government decisions and who do not have the right to be in Sweden. Why does he want to make it easier for these people to stay in Sweden if he wants regulated immigration? Is it not better to be honest and say that you do not want regulated immigration? You want free immigration. You want everyone to stay. Isn't it better to be honest with that, Tony Haddou?
i-Jnd6fdXW46vtvDTrsRVK9g	Madam President, I would like First of all, there is a lack of legal certainty. It certainly does. I will also explain one thing to the Swedish Democrats. It may be acceptable to them, but Sweden is a democracy. That's what they want to phase out. In Sweden we have courts. Asylum matters are being examined. A no can be a yes. It's as simple as that. However, you are making it very difficult for people with the systems that you are starting from today. That's the problem. There are, of course, shortcomings in migration legislation and in labour immigration legislation today. It's regulations that don't work. And when it doesn't work, you put out cuffs and whips. That's the only thing you can come up with. Madam President, I would like I believe that for the Swedish Democrats it is not undocumented that irritates them so much. It's about where people come from. The Swedish Democrats made that very clear in their speech here. Let me make one thing clear to the Swedish Democrats: you will meet people like me everywhere, with or without papers. They are teachers, nurses, doctors, carers, construction workers, industrial workers, bus drivers, personal assistants, lawyers, students, cashiers and obviously we politicians who build Sweden together. We are over 1 million foreign born on the labour market, and we are the ones holding up Sweden. The project of the Swedish Democrats is, as we hear here today, to divide us. It is this policy of division that I am elected here to fight against, that and that which you come with, so sit down again!
i-3CM8V9DN3mgLdxecSxCRjt	I would like to remind you that we do not use profanity in the pulpit in Parliament.
i-A7krRnsU4fLvvP6XoZsnhW	Madam President, I would like There seems to be a majority behind the proposals in this report, and I regret that. In particular, the Social Democrats and the Center Party have turned around on a number of issues included in the report. It is the Green Party and the Left Party that are opposed. It is regrettable because it is measures that, if they become reality, will exacerbate the problem of shadow society. Shadow society exists, and that's a problem. On this issue, there is no disagreement. People who have the right to be in Sweden but who have a weak position or those who do not have the right to be here are exploited and exploited to a large extent. This group also includes those who do not have a residence permit but who also have no possibility of returning because of enforcement obstacles. You can risk torture and persecution where you return but still have not been granted asylum. In this group, there are also stateless persons who have no state to return to but still have not been granted a residence permit. It's a marginalized but not a small group. Madam President, I would like What, then, are the proposals in the report on which we are to decide today? Information obligations for municipalities and authorities. It is said that the school and care should be excluded, but the main rule is that information should be shared. The meaning is that, for example, librarians, civil servants, should sound the alarm if they suspect that a child who wants to borrow a book does not have a residence permit. Is that really reasonable? Will women who are victims of violence dare to seek care? Maybe if they have an iron check on the regulations. But will they dare to take the help of social services? Probably not. At least the risk is very obvious. Madam President, I would like Another proposal concerns the limitation period. The time before the person who has been refused the asylum application can submit a new one is four years today, which is a long time. There's a lot of time to change in four years. Circumstances change. We have seen in the last month how the world can be turned upside down in a short time, and four years is considerably longer than that. With regard to the issue of banning emergency aid, the Social Democrats are happy to say no. However, since the Center Party supports the proposal, it still has a majority. The Center Party therefore chooses to ban its own local politicians from making these assessments and balances locally. The Center Party is obviously also satisfied that already vulnerable children should not even be given the opportunity for emergency aid. I find that difficult to understand, Madam President. The DNA analysis proposal is also problematic. Not all parents are biological parents of their children. Families look different. With this, Madam President, I would like to endorse reservation number 1.
i-FMvU3GyC4Vsc1wVe6bG4rE	Madam President, I would like Shadow society is growing and spreading. By shadow society we mean simply expressed people who stay here without having the right to it. The latest official figure speaks of up to 50 000 illegal residents. But the figure has a few years on its back, and well-informed assessors say it's about at least double. In 2018, the Finnish Immigration Service decided that a further 42,000 people would go underground until this year. Only half of those who have been turned down on their asylum application leave the country on their own. Last year, only three did. How widespread the shadow society is is perhaps best symbolized by the wanted woman who was on the Prime Minister's private property to clean up and who had been commissioned by a company whose CEO was convicted of a scheme with fake invoices. The seriousness of the threat in uncontrolled shadow society reminds us of the terrible act of terror on Drottninggatan, carried out by a man who lacked the right to stay here. How little is being done to tackle shadow society can be seen from today's very lax legislation. Just take the secrecy, Madam President, which is so strong that it builds walls around shadow society. No authority can get in. If it had been the Swedish Tax Agency that found the woman who stayed illegally at Magdalena Andersson's residence, they would not even have had to pick up the phone and inform the police and the Migration Agency about it. It's absurd! Swedish authorities sit on a gold mine, but we can only drill in it with plastic pipes," says the Director General of the Swedish Tax Agency about the authorities not being able to share information with each other. The truth is that it is far too easy to live in Sweden without permission. Internal checks by the police to detect illegal residents have decreased by 80 percent in the last ten years. Morgan Johansson promised that the number would increase, but it decreased. Once the border police find someone illegally staying here, the police will have to decide whether to release someone else in order for that person to be detained, because the detention centres are too few and the detention centres are overcrowded. The police are even being forced to release the felony out of custody. You can also easily cancel your own expulsion by refusing to take a PCR test. And some municipalities happily pay subsidies to people who do not have the right to be here. Thus, although a court has ruled that a person should leave the country, there are municipalities that counteract the decision by paying grants to the same person. Stones that should have been turned on long ago have grown stuck in the ground. The result is a growing shadow society characterised by crime and vulnerability, where not least children suffer very badly and where ruthless employers exploit vulnerable people. It also extremely affects all those who have actually come here, sought protection and been granted permission to stay, because large resources must be spent on those who do not have the right to be here. On the basis of previous contributions to the debate, it is a perspective that seems to be forgotten. The Social Democrats have soon had eight years to increase the number of expulsions. Just before Christmas, the government called a press conference and said that now they would take a lot of action. But the force turned out to be possibly powerful words but no more – words that we have heard so many times before from the Social Democrats. In fact, the proposals were ineffective. It was about the Migration Agency and the Police Authority being tasked with intensifying their work, that Statskontoret should analyse and that Sida should map. I don't think I was the only one who was rather disappointed at that press conference. We have come far beyond the stage where surveys and analyses are sufficient. What is needed is action that leads to more people leaving Sweden actually doing so. That is why we moderated in the Social Security Committee early this year a series of sharp proposals to wipe out shadow society. I am extremely pleased that a large majority in committee and a large majority in this House this afternoon support eight strong measures. Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the committee for its very constructive work. The Moderates, the Christian Democrats, the Liberals, the Swedish Democrats and the Center Party are behind all eight points, while the Social Democrats are behind all the points except the one on the withdrawal of contributions to the illegal residents. The broad consensus gives me very good hope that these changes will be able to come into place relatively quickly. It is absolutely necessary if we are to begin work to wipe out the shadow society, and to get Sweden in order.
i-3tyzLpZ9r2VqMvAEthPh7K	Madam President, I would like I do not really know what the division of labour looks like in the blue brown, whether it is the Moderates who are to sell the policy of the Swedish Democrats or whether the Christian Democrats are just getting along and so on. But perhaps the Moderates, who claim government power, can clarify and clarify. Hunting undocumented is obviously not enough for the Moderates. It is not enough for ankle shackles, for aid and accommodation to be withdrawn and for us to have an angiveri and control society in the way proposed here in the speaker's chair. It's not enough anymore. Now the Moderates will also kick the quota refugees. Over 4,000 Ukrainians come to Sweden every day. The quota refugees are only 5,000 a year. Quota refugees are the most distressing cases in the world. They are specially selected by UNHCR from war-torn areas or the world's largest refugee camps. It is Sudanese, Somalis, Syrians and Congolese who need protection for their lives. But the Moderates think we only have room for one group at a time. It is now Ukrainians and nothing else. The Moderates also signal that quota refugees are a problem for us. It's the m we don't have room for. I find no more appropriate word than racism for the sorting that the M oderates do and the sight that they have of people on the run. It's a direct sight, I have to say. This is where the Oderatians explain themselves. Why are you kicking at the most vulnerable and marginalised people who run for their lives?
i-EFFhJTLWsSHN9aWnrX4sCq	Madam President, I would like Now this debate is about shadow society, which I am somewhat unsure whether the left-wing party stone has understood. It's about people who have had a trial. It is usually a court order in which they have been given a final decision to leave the country. They have not followed that decision, but have chosen to go underground. Then they become part of a shadow society. That means they don't have the right to stay here. I think, just as Jonas Andersson in Skellefteå said before, that it is incredibly important now to say that we are protecting regulated immigration that it is they who have the right to stay in the country that do so. Those who have had a trial that landed in leaving the country should also do so. Otherwise, it will be very difficult to have order and order in Sweden. But that does not seem to be the main goal of the Left Party. I'm very concerned. This ultimately also affects our ability to help. I still see that the Left Party wants us to help as many people as possible. If we let everyone stay regardless of whether they have protection needs or not, it ultimately undermines our ability to help people who are in the greatest need of help. When it comes to the question of Ukraine, to which I would nevertheless like to answer, one could help many more in the best of worlds. But we have limited resources in Sweden. Then we must give priority to those in greatest need of help. We have a war initiated by Russia in which a democracy that is close to us and where people flee for their lives has been attacked. Then I think we have a duty to help them. Since we cannot help everyone, we must give priority to helping others.
i-FHhFmmtEPg5nP56QQ12G2k	Madam President, I would like A party claiming government power should be able to answer the questions I ask. It's not much harder than that. There are 4,000 Ukrainians coming to Sweden every day. But you're still kicking at 5,000 quota refugees a year that's coming. I understand the Moderates want to talk about return. But then we can also talk about what works and what doesn't work. You've tightened so much you don't know where people live. You've created this shadow society. You have taken away their money, their homes and their means of security and protection. How can you talk to people when you don't know where they are? It is you who have created this when you have deprived them of their rights. How do you do it this time? I think the Moderates should be on the questions I ask. This is because a lot has happened in the Moderates. They've been making major and populist reversals. In 2015, it sounded different. Then the Moderates just wanted to focus on quota refugees. Last year they wanted fewer quota refugees. This year, the Moderates don't want quota refugees at all. With the Moderates engaged in these populist reversals every t and every two years, the question is where the Ukrainian refugees will go when you find another group as an excuse to cut back on reception.
i-UWPJF3MTCH3JXiZzxAjPvB	Madam President, I would like It's not easy to keep up. But I will try to answer the questions, which are rather unclear and rather sprawling. Today we are discussing shadow society and not quota reception. ( Tony HADDOU ( V): These are very simple questions. ) First of all, I would like to raise the question of shadow society. No, the Moderates didn't create it. It is said that by withdrawing aid we make it more difficult to have contact with these people. These people have an obligation to leave the country. They have not complied with that obligation. Then we must ensure by all means that they also leave the country. That is the only way to maintain regulated immigration. I believe that the Left Party no longer wants regulated immigration. There's nothing else you can't tell. In the case of quota refugees, one must be able to think both in the long-term perspective and in the short-term perspective. If we look at the long-term perspective, our policy is solid. We would have given priority to helping more people in a better way if we had switched the entire reception to a clean quota reception. Then people will have a safe journey into the country where they have been granted protection. They don't have to pay for refugee smugglers and put their lives in their hands. In addition, we give priority to those with the greatest need for protection. It is often those who could not afford to even knock on the door of Europe. Before the war in Ukraine broke out, only one in four had protection reasons for those who came to the EU and to Sweden. Let's put our resources on the wrong people. That is why, in the long term, we should move towards a fully quota-based system. But now that we have an extremely high level of immigration from Ukraine but also irregular immigration in general, we must ensure that the municipalities are able to do so. The quota refugees put a great deal of strain on the municipalities. That is why we must now freeze the quota refugee reception.
i-EmPXG69Bn19fze1TcXNcjE	Madam President, I would like I was going to ask you a question about the obligation of information that the majority want to introduce. One can imagine the eight-year-old girl or boy who comes to the library to borrow a book to learn Swedish. I think there are few librarians, if any, who are trained in the profession to have the task of alerting the border police or the Migration Agency if they suspect that a child who comes and wants to borrow a book does not have a residence permit. But this is the consequence of the duty of information that the Moderates and others want. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Maria Malmer Stenergard what she has to say to Sweden's librarians who now, if Maria Malmer Stenergard from the Moderates is allowed to decide, are given this task. What do you want to say to those who, instead of giving reading experiences to children, will be asked to alert the border police and the Migration Agency if they suspect this?
i-D3syN6Z3NF4ZqFW3p964jK	Madam President, I would like I believe that the very, very worst thing for a child is to live in the vulnerability of shadow society. In this case, it is a child who has been tried and rejected. They then have an obligation to leave the country. Clearly, the child is the victim of the parents'decision to go underground and live in the shadow society that is so clearly marked by crime and vulnerability. That is why I believe that society must ensure that it fights against shadow society at all costs. That can be tough for the individual official of the municipality; I really want to say that. But I think it's necessary. We have said in the report that it is reasonable that when it comes to things that are legally entitled to even without permission to reside in Sweden, such as emergency medical care, the performer, that is to say, the health professionals, should not have to alert the police and the migration services. We think that is a reasonable exception. Of course, the precise design must be looked at when drafting legislation, but I think it is an important principle that an authority does not effectively oppose the decision taken by a court or another authority.
i-M6sUZUPhia1gqZLFdD6uo3	Madam President, I would like Then there are limits even for the Moderates. Maria Stenergard mentions emergency medical care, and I have heard that the school has been mentioned before. Maria Malmer Stenergard is welcome to say if the school is excluded. But there is at least one limit, Madam President, also for the Moderates in this regard. So you don't want to do this at all costs, but you want to go incredibly far. Even the Moderates have obviously seen that there is some sort of limit. I wonder whether the school should be the exception for the children who live in this vulnerability – some of them with enforcement barriers so that one cannot actually return to one's former home country. And if they now have the right to go to school, which I hope the Moderates still think: Should the children be afraid when the school goes to the library or visit museums to be caught by someone who is employed by the municipality who does not work at school? Should they be afraid that that person is calling the border police and that they are thus put in custody and allowed to leave the country?
i-FU3ffA86VmLoPjdQZKue5Q	Madam President, I would like If there is a right to schooling, the school staff shall be exempt. This is clearly stated in the report. The exact design must, of course, be looked at. Once again, however, I would like to point out that it is not the child's best interest to live in a shadow society. There are also children who come here to seek shelter and who are protected. Nor is it the child's best interests that we contribute in parallel to building a shadow society that takes resources from them that we should actually help get into society for real. Because it actually works that way; politics is about prioritising. The resources are limited, and so we must choose to really protect those who have been protected in a legally secure process, while those who have not been protected must leave the country. I fully understand that it is very tough for the individual official who has to pick up the phone and call the police or the Migration Agency. But in the end, I am convinced that it is better than a child being forced to live in shadow society year after year.
i-7y7WQEe3ZZr86KDhKHYFXQ	Madam President, I would like It is not possible to launch a migration debate without commenting on the terrible things that are happening in Ukraine at the moment. Putin's invasion war has led to a terrible humanitarian disaster. For all those who are now forced to flee Putin's bombs, Sweden will be an open arms with a warm reception. I will admit that it feels a little strange that in this time and in the context that we are currently living in talking about return issues. But we must be able to keep two thoughts in our heads at the same time. When you hear the debate, it doesn't seem to be about the way you see people. For me, it is quite simple: it is about whether or not you want regulated immigration. As regards, for example, the question of anklet, on which harsh words have been said here today, we actually have detention in Sweden, as I would say, is a more far-reaching and integrity-defying measure than the anklet. It seems to me that this is a debate which today has absolutely no sense of reason. Those are very big words. There is also talk of children who do not receive emergency aid not being given shelter or food on the table. If you make yourself known, you get exactly that in a single return. The Center Party has long highlighted the importance of achieving coherent, effective and legally secure return, where the focus must of course be on the need to increase voluntary return. I truly believe it's best for everyone. Why, then, are return issues so important? One of the cornerstones of my political commitment is to safeguard people's right to protection. Sweden should be an open arms for people on the run. It's part of what I'm fighting for every day. For me and the Center Party, the right of asylum is inviolable. The person entitled to asylum should be allowed to stay and receive the best possible reception. One of the cornerstones of effective migration and long-term sustainable integration without exclusion is that those who have been granted a residence permit get the best possible opportunities to establish themselves, get their first home, enter the labour market and learn the Swedish language. Equally important is the return to the country of origin of the person who has been refused an asylum application. This is how we get a long-term sustainable and legally secure migration policy that combines humanity and humanism with order. Last summer, Parliament decided on a new migration policy. It's pretty good in large parts. However, the investigation left two important questions unanswered: how can we further increase legal certainty in the asylum process? And how can we bring about a coherent, effective and more legally secure return? It is good that Parliament is now taking the initiative to answer one of the questions. And I hope that eventually there can also be a majority in Parliament to answer the question of how we can further increase legal certainty in the asylum process. On return issues, I think it is important to look at what is best in substance. It is not always what sounds best when it comes to return issues. Proposals can also have the opposite effect. That is why I think it is a good thing that we should now look at these issues widely, investigate it all and then discuss the legislation further. The answers and details are not in place, nor should they be today, but now you need to look at this widely and then be able to take a stand. That is something I wish we could have done within the framework of the parliamentary migration committee. But that was not the case. I hope, as I said, that this is a first step towards a better and more effective return. I also hope that we will eventually be able to take similar decisions on a more legally secure asylum process in the future.
i-J4EAAZtJrPaDo3DSmtRFga	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jonny Cato, for your speech! I thank you with a lump in my stomach, but it is expected anyway. The Center Party is asking for a discussion on humanism here. I think that's good. At the same time, we live in a country where the Processors of the Migration Agency argue for women from Afghanistan to adapt to a life under Taliban customs. We live in a country that wants to expel women to Afghanistan. I will not go into detail about what happens to women who are deported to Afghanistan, but this is a result of the migration policy that the Center Party is involved in driving and supporting. If this woman is now trying to go underground so as not to be expelled, the Center Party with this proposal wants to make it a hell for her in Sweden too. That is what we are voting on today. My question to the honourable Member is: What would you have done, Jonny Cato, if you had been given such a expulsion decision as a woman – to be deported to one of the most dangerous countries in the world, where the Taliban rule?
i-BoxiJPWE4Je9gEqvhBJXZL	I would just like to remind you that there are no doubles in the speaker's chair.
i-2NXfr8vNEHYos48jnpEbPN	Madam President, I would like The Center Party is, of course, behind the definitions of alternative need for protection, refugee status and so on. It is those definitions that determine whether someone has the right to stay and stay in Sweden or not. Many people are forced to flee for various reasons. Right now we are seeing how Putin's bombs in Ukraine affect people so that they need to escape. We also see that the situation in Eritrea is terrible. In the long term, if we are to be able to be an open arms for those people who have protection status, then people who have been rejected also need to leave the country. In my world, I do not think that it will eventually work for Sweden to be an open arms for everyone who has the right to protection if people who have been rejected by the authority and further through the entire legal chain will also stay. Then neither integration nor the migration process will work in the long term. If you want to be a party that really wants to help people who have protection reasons and the right to stay, you must also be able to make it clear that those who do not have protection reasons should return.
i-Q4j6LWHEVvz6B9Br7gfztg	Madam President, I would like Jonny Cato is probably the most honest politician in this House. He just said he's sending women to Afghanistan, and it was clear that they're going to adapt. You don't seem to think there's anything wrong. You do not see these errors and shortcomings in migration legislation. The fact that Sweden wants to send women to Afghanistan, which is governed by the Taliban, does not see the Center Party as the major problem in what we are discussing here today. But I appreciate the honesty. The Center Party has been involved in driving Sweden to a migration policy that is among the hardest in Europe, which causes people to die on the Mediterranean or, in the case I raised, to send women back to Afghanistan in the Taliban. I mentioned women's rights and freedoms because they are being violated every day. That is the level and direction that the Center Party is involved in exposing people to. It's just a matter of regret from here.
i-LJU1a72MLtiyBehVbdgpu8	Madam President, I would like I don't like it when other people put words in my mouth, especially when it's a left-wing party. For me, we can have a discussion about who has the right to stay and not. It is a discussion I am happy to have, as well as the way in which you can stay, how long the residence permit should be, what kind of reception we should have and who has protection reasons and not. I'd be happy to have that discussion. But when you've got a rejection, I think you should go back. That's the discussion we're having right now. The discussion is not about who has protection reasons and not, as the Left Party Member wants it to do. If you have received a rejection, I think it is reasonable for you to return to your country of origin, so that in the long term we can manage to be an open arms for all the people who need protection in our country.
i-EhgSNxfe7rYipLU4MXWuLc	Madam President, I would like I was a little curious and confused when I listened to Catos Jonny's speech. He talked about these proposals as being new and not having been debated and discussed earlier. They have, in all possible contexts. In the Migration Committee, if not all, the vast majority of them were raised by other parties. On that occasion, the Center Party was against. Now you're in favour. My question is really what has changed. What makes the Center Party now in favour of these proposals? Jonny Cato talked about the fact that regulated immigration requires a return. Was it the case, then, that a year ago, the Center Party did not provide regulated immigration? That's not my picture. I stand for regulated immigration, and my picture is that Jonny Cato has done it before. My question is very simple, Madam President: what has caused the Centre Party to change its mind on all these points?
i-GBAPdeHoyToNvTbGfpW69Z	Madam President, I would like I have to say that I do not really have the same memory picture as Mr Ling. The Green Party was also not part of the forums where we negotiated the Migration Committee. We can also look at the follow-up motions that the parties raised in connection with the report that we decided on last summer. The Center Party was then the only party to follow up on a coherent and effective return, and we also received an announcement of that. So we have not turned, but we think the same thing now that we thought both one and two years ago. The details of these various proposals can then be discussed. I do not think anyone has an answer to exactly how this is to be designed now, and we did not have that in the Migration Committee either. Then we did not spend much time on either the issue of return or the rule of law – that is my picture and my opinion. We now need to investigate, discuss and take a position on this in due course.
i-4WJYqbinbMYFZE3dfbxUYA	Madam President, I would like The Green Party was a member of the Migration Committee. The work went on for a year and a half, and it was for some week that the Center Party closed up with other parties. For the vast majority of the time, all parties were involved and were also able to put forward the proposals they wanted. There was a proposal from the Moderates to extend the limitation period. There were proposals for the exchange of information between authorities. The DNA question was up. On that occasion, the Center Party opposed these proposals. So it has obviously turned around. However, I note, Madam President, that Jonny Cato cannot tell us why it has turned around. I've heard the arguments back and forth. I do not share the position, and we can discuss that. But the fact that you have turned around but you don't want to tell me what the reason is, I find it strange.
i-MNBX1biqYPTVh529kCPFBL	Madam President, I would like Even then, the Center Party felt that we needed to look at how we could achieve a more coherent and effective return in a broad investigation. There was no majority in favour of this. Now, instead, there is a majority to look at a lot of different proposals that had been looked at in such an investigation. I think that's good. As I also said in my speech earlier, the Center Party, like all the other parties, will have to take a final position when we have seen the investigation of the individual proposals. However, the fact that the Center Party has for a long time wanted to see a better, more efficient and more coherent return cannot be news for the Green Party.
i-MMVJwfMXwXDhWRvJFRGZTh	Madam President, I would like In this debate on shadow society, a number of different approaches can be taken. I just wanted to say that it is far too easy to stay and live in Sweden under false identity or alongside society. I would like to take an example for those who follow the debate; it concerns coordination numbers. It is a kind of temporary social security number issued to people who are registered in our country. The police and the Swedish Tax Agency estimate that about half of the more than 800 000 coordination numbers, i.e. 400 000, have been given to people who have not proved their identity. Add to this the following statement from the border police: and we have a parallel society that is only growing and we have lost control of who is here. Then I think we all understand that this shadow society is a de facto problem that we have and that we have to do something. Then there are various measures that can be taken. For example, we Christian Democrats have proposed that we have a national census – not a cat census, on which a majority here in Parliament recently decided. We want to cancel the coordination numbers issued. We also want to ensure that the coordination numbers are limited in time. We want to link them to biometrics. And we want to ensure better functioning civil records. These are some measures that can be taken for those who want to get a little more order. I would argue that the Swedish shadow society is now approaching the breaking point. Then someone, perhaps everyone in this House, asks the question: how many are living in this shadow society? The normal thing in Sweden is that one has guessed, and that has been done for a long time. It could be up to 50 000 who are in our country illegally. But how big the figure really is, no one can say. A journalist recently arrived at 200,000. In any case, for me as a Christian Democrat, the most crucial thing is not how many they are but what a life in shadow society leads to. With shadow society, people are forced to work black. Many people are being exploited. Crime is widespread. The working environments are not the best, and living situations are often completely substandard. In view of this, there are many reasons to curb this. For seven and a half years, this government has now ruled the country. For seven and a half years, the extent of shadow society has not diminished, on the contrary. Madam President, I would like Those residing here illegally have the legal right to seek support and have their case examined in accordance with the Social Services Act. However, the fact that a municipality finances the livelihood of someone who has been tried, both by migration services and by courts, and is not considered to be for protection reasons and therefore no right to stay sends, of course, completely contradictory signals. On a human level, I can very easily sympathise with Sweden being a solidarity-based and open society where we show kindness and empathy. Of course, no one should get hurt in our streets. Everyone should be entitled to emergency care and care that cannot be tolerated. But somewhere I think everyone understands that we cannot have a system in which the Migration Agency and the Migration Courts are to ensure that we uphold the right of asylum and, at the same time, allow municipalities to financially support people who choose not to comply with the decisions made. I have tried this before today's debate on some people in my environment who are not involved in politics but are outside the bubble of politics. They don't think it's true when I say it's like this – that someone who has been given a no and chooses not to follow that decision but chooses to be here illegally can get financial support for this. Madam President, I would like During these years in the Swedish Parliament – it is approaching a full term of office now – the first matter I encountered was about detention places. This is something that has persecuted us in this House. Although we all seem to agree that detention places are not enough – we do not even have half of the places that the police and the Migration Agency think are needed to manage regulated immigration in a good way – little happens. Now KD, M and SD have a budget where we make sure that there is a little more money, but the problem with detention places is also that it takes time to build them. It's not done in a flash. For this reason, I am very pleased that the KD-M-SD budget also provides for an increase in this with electronic monitoring. I think that is a good alternative to detention sites pending their expansion. This is something that we Christian Democrats have argued for a very long time. We think it is reasonable that when it comes to people who are suspected that they are in danger of deviating, make sure that they have some control to facilitate the deportation or deportation. I also think that the anklet is a good option, given that the person can then prepare his own journey home with electronic surveillance. The housing obligation is another way of trying to get some control over things. The person who has received a removal decision must then register, which can take place several times a day, or be on a specific accommodation at a certain time. Madam President, I would like I think this is a good day, because we are now getting a majority that is willing to take a first step. We are putting forward a series of measures that will help us actually to tackle shadow society in various ways. It is, I believe, important that this decision is taken here today, not least because we have huge integration problems in Sweden, which we have not been able to deal with. One example that I often come back to is that, although Sweden is spending large sums of money on integration and on reducing disparities, we still have the greatest difference within the EU in terms of the employment gap between domestic and foreign born. Anyone who has either lived abroad, as I have, or knows how it works understands that when you are unable to get a job in the new country you come to, it is difficult to break what we call economic exclusion. We Christian Democrats are not only interested in saying welcome here, but we also want to be able to say welcome home to the people who have been given the right to have Sweden as a new place to be. Then we must ensure that the shadow society is cured, but also that we have the time and energy to ensure that integration works better.
i-JXHMPxEXDuABYrCYYm3ajP	Madam President, I would like I never received an answer from the Moderates to the question of the Rules of Procedure of the blue-brown – who is in charge and who is in the back seat of the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. A question I would like to ask the Christian Democrats is that the Moderates write in their text like this: The Christian Democrats do not want to give their views on this picture? Then I have another question, about the converts to be expelled. You don't believe them. For example, people who have converted to Christianity know that they will die if they are sent back to their homeland. They have been given a legal test; we know that. Should the police be able to enter, for example, the churches that help converts? Should the police or the Migration Agency behave that way? Should you go into churches and pick out converts? Is that what the Christian Democrats want?
i-R24bqE2jZ6JKcFHvzmmvYS	Madam President, I would like My party leader once said, "Don't call me blue-brown." I'm a Christian Democrat. I am thinking that the Member of Parliament could raise the level of his speeches a little and put an end to this kind of smudge, which feels very silly.
i-FwcJhU6YWF24CP9hhpn8Ww	I'm a priest. I am not derailed because I am in Parliament, but I am still a priest, but on leave. As my very first task when as a new Member of Parliament I felt a bit like Bambi on slippery ice – you meet a lot of new things in the Swedish Parliament – I chose the question I felt most confident with, namely the one about converts. I saw a flaw, and I am not saying that it has been remedied, in the process of dealing with converts. There I saw clear shortcomings, so I chose to involve myself with great commitment on this particular issue because I knew it. It was part of my reality. I was very pleased when the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats were the two parties that actually supported a committee initiative aimed at increasing the rule of law for converts. The committee initiative fell, but I know – I have been told – that precisely that the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats chose to stand up actually made the government subsequently in March 2019 make sure that invoking religious beliefs would be better taken into account. But as a priest, I can tell Tony Haddou that I have also met people who come to me and who say: I want you to baptize me. I'll say, "Well, that's nice! How did that happen? Yes, but let's talk about the Christian faith first. You're not interested in that. You want a baptism certificate to be able to stay in Sweden.
i-MUaPPkkwU2wPVTe5kmjL9N	Madam President, I would like Today, these people are suffering very badly. They will suffer even more from this proposal. I'm not asking you because you're a priest, but I'm asking it because the churches today are helping these people. You vote for the police to come in and take them. But you did not answer the question: Do you think that the police should be able to storm into churches where people have their sanctuary? That's the question. Don't call me blue brown. I'll answer that anyway. That is a series of proposals that we are voting on today. One of them is about angiveri and control society. It's in that direction we're going. Totalitarian states do that. Russia does that. I call you blue brown because you are moving towards a policy that we have seen before in the world. It never turned out good. That is why you are called blue brown in every debate, and we in Sweden will not be silent about it either. You will face the whole election year. You will be called blue-brown throughout the election year, because we have seen the results of this policy. We have seen what happens to that policy. Here you are voting in favour of policies that are in the direction of control functions and angiveris society. That's why we call you blue brown.
i-4cHy7NkDNbhS8Ysmvzeq7L	Madam President, I would like Comparisons are made between proposals. Hopefully, the initiative now supported by the parliamentary majority will be followed up by various tools to ensure that regulated immigration is effectively maintained. If you have received a yes, this should be a country that gives you protection, but it should also be a country that ensures that you become part of the community that we know many today are denied because of the shadow societies that are spreading. But if you don't, leave the country. It is the reasons for protection that are being tested, nothing else. I really do not want a different order, where anything other than the reasons for protection is being tried. As far as converts are concerned, we must be honest and say that there are people who claim to have converted, that is, that they have changed from one religion to another. They hope that it will be a reason for them to stay. In my role as a priest, I have met people who have not been interested in sitting down and explaining their Christian beliefs. They have been interested in one thing, to get the baptism certificate as quickly as possible because they may then have a chance to stay. I can understand that they think that way and that they do, but I cannot sanction it as a priest or as a politician. Perhaps that is the biggest difference between the Member of Parliament and me.
i-UD5PgXRMdRZcULR8QZ59HF	Madam President, I would like The pandemic and pandemic consequences remain. But the laws that give the government far-reaching powers are due to expire on 31 March. That assessment was carried out by the Committee on Social Affairs in January, and when we approved an extension it was subject to that reservation. The Government apparently made the same assessment as the Riksdag and has produced a bill proposing that the Covid-19 Act and the Temporary Serving Act should expire on 31 March. At the same time covid-19 also ceases to be classified as a generally dangerous or socially dangerous disease. This brings us back to normal legislation. But it was and is necessary, we Christian Democrats believe, that a government can take action and thus have the power to act in the event of a crisis. It took a long time before the pandemic laws were developed and could be used. Perhaps it affected the consequences of the pandemic in the early stages. The Corona Commission has delivered its final report, and it is urgent that it is widely discussed and that we then take the necessary decisions that will make us better equipped. My view is that the Commission has captured many essentials and that we need to continue to work on their proposals and considerations. The pandemic has brought consequences, Madam President. Public health has been affected. In a recent report, the Public Health Agency showed that those groups that already had an increased risk of ill health before the pandemic have been most affected in schools, in the labour market and in society as a whole after the first pandemic year 2020. Similarly, physical activity has been reduced and sedentary, while many public health-relevant interventions have been cancelled and replaced by other options during the pandemic. The Christian Democrats therefore believe that a search is needed. It will lead to a broad public health programme, based on research and proven experience. This should be implemented over a longer period of time in liaison with relevant stakeholders, including civil society. Similarly, the government should make an assessment of the remaining consequences that have affected individuals, households and businesses in an economic sense following the application of pandemic laws. This examination should also be followed by concrete proposals aimed at ensuring that the affected actors can benefit from an effective economic recovery after pandemic laws have ceased. Unfortunately, we have not received support for this. I would therefore like to endorse Amendment No 2, which deals with both the need for action in the field of public health and measures in the light of the economic consequences of the pandemic. The Pandemic teams will cease. Can we therefore refrain from protective measures or vaccination? No, not at all. It is still necessary for elderly care to have the resources to cope with manning and good quality. The financial support of 4 billion annually decided by the Riksdag following an initiative by the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Left Party must be used to the full in each municipality. The shortcomings that exist must be addressed jointly. You're supposed to be able to trust the care of the elderly. Vaccination is still just as important. We know that vaccines are a good protection against measles or flu. But now we also know that the excess mortality dropped when vaccination against covid-19 started. Vaccines give life and health, and I am pleased that the entire population is offered vaccines against covid-19, both as basic protection and as refill doses. Right now it is important that we also offer vaccines to those who have fled the war in Ukraine. Russia's invasion means that many people are on the run, mostly in the immediate area, but some also come to Sweden. To offer them vaccines is important. We should also offer the children who will have the basic vaccine protection available in the Swedish vaccination programme for all children.
i-Q2sciJVT2itpH1SeoTs6vU	Madam President, I would like The Temporary Covid-19 Act cannot under any circumstances be used as a basis for more general legislation on extraordinary powers and limitations in the event of peacetime crises. Now we have come to a position that is stable enough to continue the phasing out of the disease control measures, and the Covid-19 Act and the Act on Temporary Disease Control at Serving Sites can now be repealed. We are all happy that we are in that position. Madam President, I would like The vaccinations made and make a difference. It is very important that information on the importance of vaccination reaches out to all parts of society in order to promote equal public health. A pandemic requires information and communication on a very broad basis. We believe that the government should intensify communication on pandemic control and the importance of vaccination. The spread of infection is still high. More must be vaccinated, and the anti-waxes must be treated. That is why we are in favour of reservation 1. We can't let this go. In 2020 almost one million travellers returned to Sweden during the winter holidays. They came from Italy, Austria, London, Paris, Barcelona and New York, yes, everywhere. What happened was that Belgium, the Netherlands, France, Spain and we got a lot of infection from all around the world. The infection went under the radar. The spread of infection in these countries was not properly controlled. Many came back by air and landed at various airports, coughed in the taxis and carried covid-19 on to taxi drivers who passed it on home. It was a very rapid development. Madam President, I would like More than 17 000 people have died with covid-19, and so many elderly people and people in retirement homes have been affected. The macabre was initially – for all of us, I think – that for quite some time there was not enough infectious protection equipment in a country like Sweden. On the one hand, there was no national stock, because it disappeared when Apoteket AB was sold out, and on the other hand there was no anti-infection equipment in stock in the regions – although they would have it. It is distressing for regional politicians to ignore this fact. Elderly care has been cut in the municipalities for a long time. There were so many hourly workers during this period, and only 50%, Madam President, followed the guidelines for hygiene in the care of the elderly before the pandemic. Because of the spread of infection and, of course, also because of political omissions at national, regional and municipal level, the elderly could not be protected. Madam President, I would like Of course, this is also about class. It does everything; health and class are connected. We could see a clear excess mortality in areas of low health in general. How did the testing work? For example, in the Stockholm region, testing has not reached out to all population groups that really needed testing, while the experience of 2020 shows that people with shorter education and low income groups were more likely to become seriously ill and die from covid-19. Sometimes parties on the right, as I say, have lifted the fact that it was a slow handling by the state when it comes to protective equipment. But then I would like to return to the fact that, since 2009, there has been a clear call in the pandemic plans of the National Board of Health and Welfare to the regions to keep a layer of protective equipment. It was therefore the responsibility of the regions to keep these stocks, but they did not exist. In Stockholm, which was the epicentre for the spread of infection, it turned out to be hard hit. It affected the care of the elderly, who did not have access to protective equipment, but it also affected the health care system, which had to fix it at home itself. Who is responsible for what, one wonders, Madam President? Sometimes it may sound like the government is responsible for everything. It's not like that. Municipalities and regions are responsible for testing, health care, vaccination and care for the elderly. I would like to thank all those in health care, those who have saved lives, comforted and stood tall under an unreasonable workload. It was applauded from the balconies very much at first, but what is required is exactly what we will be talking about later this afternoon: good wages, reduced working hours while keeping wages and good working hours. A well-being for all requires investments in health care and care for the elderly. There must be more money for welfare in order to make these personnel efforts. It will not work with tax cuts, contributions to, for example, screwing up furniture or excessive profits in health care companies. Madam President, I would like Now that the applause has stopped and we are in the spring of 2022, we can still see brutal cuts in public health care around the country. Throughout the pandemic, one thing was crystal clear: it is public health that has saved lives. It is not the market and the net doctors, but it is the staff at Stockholm's emergency hospital, where over a thousand people were given notice last year. They're the ones who worked 12 hours a day. What we want to see if there is a new pandemic, as it will unfortunately do, is national governance in the event of major pandemics and disasters and a reference group from the regions. Other reference groups are needed in the case of researchers, and all private healthcare companies with agreements with the regions are legally required to be included in the emergency preparedness of the regions or the state. There is a need for a sufficient number of care places. Production of protective equipment and consumables for health and social care must also be ensured within Sweden. We want to investigate the conditions for the publicly owned manufacturing industry of vaccines in the Nordic countries and for a national stock of medical equipment and relevant medicines to be introduced. In addition, we want legislation for regions to have pandemic stocks of protective equipment for three months' consumption. As I said, hold on to the vaccinations, because it is vital! We don't want to go into a new wave.
i-3Ck3MkMyYqat1r9pxhudLW	Madam President, I would like I reacted when Left Party Member Karin Rågsjö gave her support to the Government not having to do anything during the pandemic, despite the fact that municipalities and regions did not have the preparedness they should have had. It is quite correct that municipalities and regions should have been prepared by law. But when it turned out that they didn't have it, a government, no matter what, had to come in and do what you're supposed to do. The government rules the kingdom, and you still have to have the ultimate safety net. However, Karin Rågsjö believes that one cannot blame the government, but it was okay that nothing happened from the government at first. Does that mean that the honourable Member would have been in the same direction if it had been a left-wing party government? A left-wing government would not have acted if municipalities and regions had broken, but they would have let it roll on – is that how I should perceive it?
i-DqfyUEGDUoisAapDYJd2iU	Madam President, I would like In my speech, I made it quite clear that because of the spread of infection and, of course, also because of political omissions at national, regional and local level, the elderly could not be protected. ..................................................... As far as infectious protection equipment is concerned, we all thought that there were stocks regionally. That's what I thought, because it's written down that you should have it. Then you have to have some kind of control body to check: Does Värmland have protective equipment? Does Stockholm have protective equipment? I believe, for example, that at a state level, this was thought to run smoothly. We have had a very poor pandemic preparedness in Sweden, both nationally, regionally and municipally. It was noticed when the pandemic rolled in. When it comes to protective equipment, the National Board of Health and Welfare tried to take responsibility in various ways by purchasing large stocks. But I mean that in a welfare country there should be such obvious things as protective equipment that lasts more than just a few days. It was a painful situation that the care of the elderly experienced, namely that there was no anti-infection equipment. That's where we all learned something. I hope that the next pandemic will have another crisis preparedness and another crisis management. It should be made clear that it is the government, the state level, that is driving forward in such crises. You can't put the responsibility out and hope that things will be great in the 21 regions – if you can't point with your whole hand. They chose completely different approaches for testing, for example. I'm sorry to hear that. The recommendations made by the Public Health Agency, for example, should have been followed.
i-k4nMyJoBhHh5sbwBQAAwK	Madam President, I would like I thank the honourable Member for the clarification. In the honourable Member's speech, we were told that the government cannot be accused of anything because municipalities and regions were responsible. But now the honourable Member says that the government actually has to take up the takpin. I totally agree with that. According to law, they were responsible for providing the necessary protective equipment. But when you do not have the equipment – it was missing – a government cannot stand by and say that it is someone else's responsibility and assert the principle of responsibility. That is an important part of the discussion, and then a government must step forward and do what you can when it has broken. Then, in the long term, you have to discuss how to fix the alert. That is precisely the discussion that is going on now. I will return to the question: if it had been a left-wing party government, would you also lean back on the principle of responsibility, or would you step forward and do what was lacking in municipalities and regions?
i-2644b3hF1zyyVMPfEecbvb	Madam President, I would like What did the government do when it turned out that 21 regions did not have infectious protection equipment and you had sold out Apoteket AB and not recreated a warehouse? Well, they gave the assignment to the National Board of Health and Welfare to buy the material, didn't they? I think it was pretty hard. It was not just us who wanted protective equipment, it was the whole world. That's where we got into a huge crisis. I think that this crisis can be highlighted here and now. That is why we want to legislate for regions to have protective equipment. It can't be a free workshop, it's just supposed to be in place. I believe that at this point the government could not have turned the wheel around. I do not agree there with all the parties involved who have said that the government should come out to the 21 regions and everyone should do as they say. Would it have worked? I'm not sure. The regions have a responsibility; they had their responsibility for the protective equipment, and they had their responsibility for the testing and vaccinations. We have not looked at how the vaccinations have worked. It's a little hi and good with the vaccinations around Sweden. You have completely different concepts based on management, think and who will do what. It's bad in a crisis. In a crisis of this nature, I believe that one must point with the whole hand. No one, not even SPR, should be able to say, "We don't do that."
i-8fyBPv4hoX7BnFEaTZvyty	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the repeal of the Covid-19 Act and the Act on Temporary Disease Control Measures at Serving Sites. Madam President, I would like Let me take this opportunity to take us back to the time when the temporary law came into force – January 2021. We have seen the virus sweep the world and Sweden for over a year. There have been weekly press meetings with both government and authorities. Restrictions after restrictions were introduced with the motto: Hold on and hold on. A pool of force in the development of the vaccine produced results, and the first were able to vaccinate at the turn of 2020/ 21. It's amazing! At that time, however, both in care and in care for the elderly were completely exhausted. Stress, fatigue, and sometimes fear were brutal. For a long time the Swedish people had taken responsibility for following the restrictions, but another wave of contamination came and people's endurance began to fail. Then it became absolutely necessary to get the legislation in place in order to avoid a collapse in care activities and in health care. Madam President, I would like Let me remind you that the overall aim has been to save lives and to reduce the ultimate burden on healthcare and care. The drafting of the law has taken place precisely against that background. It is an artefact to strike the fine balance between doing what is necessary and doing as little harm as possible, that is, using the powers of parliament and government without abusing them. It is a question of producing balanced legislation, and of doing so quickly. The Pandemic Act is a framework law that has provided a temporary opportunity to intervene in order to reduce the spread of infection by limiting congestion in, for example, public places. It is important that it has been a framework law for the relevant authorities to be both fast-footed and flexible. Madam President, I would like Have all the balances been perfect? Probably not. It is an issue that will occupy both us here and others outside the Chamber. We will have good help from them. However, one lesson we have learned relatively early is that there should be constitutional readiness for future pandemics. In September, an investigation was set up to review the CDC for this very purpose. The study will cover both issues relating to clean disease control measures and financial compensation and vaccination coordination. There should be well-prepared provisions that can be put into service in such emergency health situations without the need for specific legislation to be brought forward. Madam President, I would like If there's anything I've been proud of, it's that we haven't forced people to be trapped. Our children have had to leave home to go to school or other social contexts. School canteens have also served food for older children who have had home-schooling periods and who come from families who have not been able to afford an extra lunch at home. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I would like to take this opportunity to mention the historic economic crisis packages and the 14 amending budgets that have resulted in many remaining jobs. I would really like to emphasise how important it is from a public health perspective to feel needed, to have a context and a livelihood. Discussions on the effects of the pandemic on work have often focused on domestic work. There, large groups of workers have been obscured. These are groups that have borne much of the consequences of the pandemic. However, I am proud that we have at least been able to alleviate and mitigate the consequences through an active economic policy, that is to say, the protection of jobs. Madam President, I would like This does not mean that we stand without consequences in the tracks of the pandemic. Mental ill health is widespread in both younger and older people. It has been isolation and future plans that have gone awry. We know that children and women are trapped in destructive family relationships, and it is now up to society to catch them. We will live a long time with the consequences of the pandemic, but it is probably still too early to really review them. Madam President, I would like We stand by the need for the Pandemic Act to be implemented, but we shall show an understanding of when it is equally necessary to repeal it. There has been a concern and debate about whether the government has taken far-reaching action. It is an important discussion, and we need to continue to have the discussion in connection with the work on the constitutional readiness for future pandemics that I mentioned earlier. We will probably not fully agree on the necessity of this law or on how far the rules should go. But I think we agree on one thing, and that is that we should not normalise that type of interference in people's rights and freedoms. That is why it is also important for us to dismantle this law when we make the assessment that it is no longer needed. This does not mean that we can breathe out because the pandemic is completely over. We see that the omitron variant is still pushing up the spread of infection. A high level of vaccination continues to be our tool for combating the pandemic. Last week the national vaccination campaign was carried out, and much is being done in the regions to ensure that more people are vaccinated. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved and taking this opportunity to say: finally!
i-S8TXhVbrk8V5pNcKcCeVqs	Madam President, I would like I'm thinking. In itself, we ended up in a war right after the pandemic, but I have to say that this vaccination week I have had a bit of a hard time seeing. When it comes to information and communication about vaccinations, I think there would have been a need for a more manifesto of government communication that went out clearly in different ways – a little more popular, perhaps. Perhaps it is not enough for the Public Health Agency to inform on Thursdays. Not everyone's watching it. It would have needed better, more fine communication that penetrated. All right, it's the regions that are responsible for vaccination. I am fully aware of that. But the communication, this manifest communication about vaccinations, I've missed. It is also about the conditions for dealing with anti-waxers. I was one of those who received 30,000 cozy emails before Christmas, Madam President. They ended up in my junk drawer, but if you go in and look at their sites, you can see that this is not a small organization. I think that the state had a greater responsibility to respond to this nationally. I wonder what will happen, if Sofia Amloh and the Social Democrats have any idea, because I think it is important. We can't let go of this vaccination thing. There is a need for a concerted national information effort, and I have missed it almost all along.
i-X6C3grsUwzaa7D1tucoXU5	Madam President, I would like Vaccination is what has led to us being where we are today – that we can stand here today and that we can move forward through this pandemic. I'm thinking back to how they really gathered together to get to this. We talked about how long it would take to get a vaccine. We talked for years. We hoped it could be done sooner. Then, in an unbelievably short time, the whole world could gather together, and we could produce a vaccine. I remember that it was in the middle of the day that the first bags of vaccine were carried into retirement homes and that the first elderly people received the dose before it had been in 2021. The vaccinations are incredibly important. We must continue to get more people to vaccinate themselves, and I think we are many to bear the responsibility of constantly talking about the importance of it and showing that that is what is taking us through the pandemic.
i-JSsaWi2nfrAtQjGH9tDrPy	Madam President, I would like In the answer, I did not hear anything about the need for better communication on vaccinations. We all cheered for the vaccinations. There is no one – perhaps some – in this house who does not love the vaccinations. It was a fantastic breakthrough, and that's why we're here now. If we hadn't received the vaccinations, we would have been in a lot of trouble, in pure Swedish. However, in such a major societal crisis, 21 regions cannot be expected to push forward their own small information efforts. Another government impact is needed. It's missing. I miss it. It would have been so important to tell us about the vaccinations a little more popular, and by popularly I mean that you get there. If you look at which ones have vaccinated themselves you see very big differences between certain areas. In any case in Stockholm, Västra Götaland and Skåne it can differ between 50 percent who have vaccinated themselves in some areas and 90 to almost 100 percent in others. You have to work on this. I believe that the national level must take greater responsibility for it, because it cannot carry 21 regions – or all of us by talking about vaccinations. Something else is needed. There would also have been a need to respond to the enormous myths, lies and so on social media and some kind of communication around it. What are the vaccinations? Do the vaccinations die? Is my child dying of the vaccinations? There were lots of really strange claims that one might have been able to respond to in a slightly better rigged, perhaps a little costly, information effort that one can return with the pandemic remaining. There is a need for information about this that is better rigged, so to speak.
i-aCDsW3h5n8KEtHE3nVcTg	Madam President, I would like Of course, I agree with much of what Mr Rågsjö says. We need to keep this up. But we also know that there are an incredible number of good examples out there in our regions. It has outreach activities and informs. You do a number of things that matter, that get more people to vaccinate themselves. Vaccination buses are also set up in residential areas to make it as accessible as possible. It was a national vaccination campaign all last week. It may not have had a full impact, but I still think it went out quite clearly among many other things. I think it's good that it's made, but it doesn't stop you from doing it again. We've had a national vaccination campaign. I'd like it to come back.
i-A6bHzZooeiQ52EoBfyANk8	Madam President, I would like I thank the honourable Member for his speech. I am pleased that the honourable Member shows the humility that needs to be brought about if you really have taken the right steps. Regardless of government, you do what you think is your best, but afterwards you will see that maybe everything wasn't really good. I appreciate humility — it is needed when sitting in the lead. I have two questions for the honourable Member. One is about the Corona Commission, which has submitted its final report. What conclusions does the honourable Member draw about what needs to be done forward in order to reduce the risk of errors occurring again? The second concerns public health. I listened carefully and understood that the honourable Member too sees a need for public health intervention. It is possible that the demand of the Christian Democrats did not fall to the liking of the Member, but what does the government do instead? It is true that the Social Democrats are interested in public health measures, so what does the government intend to do to restore better public health?
i-BEAmgkzDVkFyeJfnoYM7w	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Ankarberg Johansson for the questions. Public health work is extremely important. Even before the pandemic, there was a great need to boost public health work. The pandemic has made it even more visible, and we definitely need to do a post-pandemic job to raise this work higher on the agenda. I see that we Social Democrats can and will do so, and I look forward to creating those conditions even more. A whole world will somewhere be interested in evaluating, researching and looking at the comparisons of the consequences and effects of this pandemic. I am absolutely convinced that we will be deeply interested in sharing most of what will be, seeing what needs there are and looking at comparable countries. Such things have already been done, but we can look at this for a long time. The consequences and effects of this, as well as the precise public health efforts and the work that needs to be done in order to have the greatest impact, will be debated and proposed on a number of occasions.
i-YHGcKno87nJzak6FCpZCpr	Madam President, I would like I thank the honourable Member for his reply. The fact that we are debating here does not change anything, I can tell you. The world does not stand still; it will continue to do what it wants no matter what we debate. What affects something is making decisions. With today's decision to end pandemic laws, we also need to take responsibility for the consequences of the laws we have used. That is why my party proposes that we actually deal with public health. This is something that the Christian Democrats believe is extremely important, because this has had consequences for public health. The honourable Member replied that this is important, that we need to do something and that we should do it, but she did not say anything concrete. Where and when will it happen? Will it happen in 20 years, or will something happen in the near future? I think we need concrete proposals. I also have another question after listening to the honourable Member's point of view. What does the Corona Commission need to do now, so that we have not only had an investigation but that it also leads to action? It is well and good to speak and debate in this House, because one understands ideological differences, but action and decision-making are what counts. I am happy to hear what the honourable Member thinks about this.
i-HQB45MZQDMJsCTeqPVki5J	Madam President, I would like Of course we will continue with this work. The government has definitely done it. After all, the government has even set up a Corona Commission because it wants to see this and have these proposals. It is not very long since the final Corona Commission report was presented. There have also been a number of hectic weeks after these proposals were put on the table, or after the Corona Commission's evaluation came. We will come back on the basis of what the evaluation says. We've had to wait for it and see what it shows. We are humbled by many of the elements presented there. I believe that all representatives in this House need to take responsibility for this and take it further. We welcome this and we will look at it. The Corona Commission has had an important purpose.
i-SWe1yY3jkJn51d9hGoekoV	Madam President, I would like Today's debate is fundamentally extremely gratifying. The temporary laws – the Covid-19 Act and the Act on Temporary Disease Control Measures at Serving Sites – expire with the end of March. We have lived with these very laws since 10 January last year. They are extraordinary laws that have limited people and that have allowed restrictions to be placed on our mobility and on our fundamental rights and freedoms. Madam President, I would like With Russia's ruthless invasion of and brutality in Ukraine and the laws introduced in Russia to control and suppress protests against the war that should not be mentioned, these issues are all the more topical. The fight for democracy must always be fought, and democracy must never be taken for granted. Freedom of opinion and freedom of expression are part of it. The right to exercise this freedom of opinion or expression through demonstrations and crowds is another. Sweden is one of the world's strongest democracies and will remain so, but the need for these laws in a country like ours really says a lot about the pandemic. While freedom of opinion and expression was not threatened, there was a great need to stop the spread of the disease. However, we Moderates take all kinds of restrictions on democracy very seriously. That is why we proposed the subordination mechanism which was then also worked in. This meant that the Riksdag was able to lift a law that the Government had introduced if the Riksdag considered that it was not justified. This subordination mechanism would have been even more far-reaching. Madam President, I would like The virus that forever changed the world has been forced back by vaccines, an amazing health care and people who have lived in isolation for a long time. The importance of washing hands has certainly been impressed, and digital meetings are here to stay. The situation in Sweden is now deemed to be so stable that disease control measures are phased out and these special and temporary laws are abolished. At the same time, we note that Parliament's demand for the government to apply the laws only until the end of March was an important demand and something the Moderates ran in the Social Affairs Committee. Covid-19 also ceases to be regarded as a generally dangerous or socially dangerous disease under the Disease Control Act. This means that we are now handling this virus more like a seasonal flu. However, this does not mean that we should not have the greatest respect for its future development. For example, we are seeing an alarming increase in infection in parts of China, and we have seen the virus's ability to mutate. The need for vaccination is unchanged. In order to avoid the virus finding new routes to mutate and to prevent serious disease, we still need to vaccinate ourselves. Not least those who are still completely unvaccinated need to shoulder their responsibilities. Only then will we avoid a new autumn with higher and serious spreads of infection and tragic deaths that could have been avoided. Madam President, I would like When the pandemic struck, many deficiencies were revealed. One was the law in civil crises. Norway had about the same deficiency at the start of the pandemic, but in April the Norwegian Government had such a law in place. In Sweden, however, the government did a half-measures that were never used in spring and early summer 2020 before the current covid-19 law came into place on 10 January 2021. At that time, the government had taken an absurdly long time to work out this law, for which the Corona Commission also rightly criticised it. As a result of the government's slowness, the infection became widespread when a second wave hit Sweden. Madam President, I would like The government has failed in leadership and crisis management. The Corona Commission's judgment on the government's lack of crisis management is very harsh. According to the Commission, the government has not taken the lead in all aspects of crisis management and has failed in its leadership. Although there was an obvious need for clear national leadership, the government actively chose to get in the back seat. The government's lack of decision-making power and unwillingness to rule in crisis is particularly serious at a time when we are facing a new major crisis in our surrounding world. The government did not take strong enough action in spring 2020. About 17,000 people have died in the pandemic. The situation was at its most serious in 2020. The Commission points out that the government, as well as the governments of our neighbours, should have applied a precautionary principle. More forceful and intervention measures in February – March 2020 had slowed down the spread of general infection. Responsibility falls heavily on the government. That is why it became almost absurd when, in January of this year, restrictions were imposed on the big sledgehammer, even without having had a discussion with the parties of the Riksdag. Madam President, I would like Moreover, the government has darkened the Commission. The Commission explicitly points out that, due to the unwillingness of the Government Office to share, it has been difficult to access documentation. This is, to say the least, an irresponsible way of managing an independent review commission whose main task is to ensure that we can learn from what has happened to strengthen Sweden's ability to deal with crises in the future. When we Moderates called the Minister of Social Affairs to the committee, the Minister said on an explicit question that all documents were submitted to the Commission. Curiously, a few days later the government told us that it would now cooperate and submit the documents requested by the Commission. Possibly there were a number of documents that the Minister of Social Affairs did not know about. Madam President, I would like It is also thanks to the Moderates that the financial support packages have been put in place. The Commission's conclusion is that the economic crisis measures have generally been successful and have generally produced good results. This is largely due to the fact that the Moderates have been driving these very issues since the start of the crisis. Without the work of the Moderates in the Riksdag on this matter, several of the grants had not been put in place at all. Sweden currently lacks legislation on civil crises. In order to meet the problems and challenges posed by covid-19, there was therefore a legitimate need to supplement the legislation so that the necessary measures could be put in place in a timely manner. We Moderates have also consistently highlighted the need, when the current crisis is over in calm and elaborate forms, to develop legislation that can be used in civil crises, in the same way as there is legal support in the context of increased preparedness or armed conflict. In conclusion, the Corona Commission has established that the government is in charge of the country and that the government did not assume its crisis management responsibilities, but put too much into the Public Health Authority. There are several examples of the government not taking the responsibility it should have taken, not least communicatively. Madam President, I would like But this is still a day of joy. This afternoon, the Swedish Parliament will decide on 31 March this year to abolish the temporary laws relating to the pandemic. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-HgQPGc2d8Yfn6VKduaqcb4	Madam President, I would like I'm not in the government, but I still have some questions. Humility is a virtue, I think. It sounds to the honourable Member like without the Moderates, we would all be in the ICU at a rapid pace. Madam President, I would like You have to see the shared responsibility. Did the regions have no responsibility? Did Region Stockholm have no responsibility for not having protective equipment and for doing the least testing and vaccination in the country? It is not Magdalena Andersson who advises around with testing, vaccinations and more in the regions. In Region Stockholm, it's Irene Svenonius, and she's moderate – if I'm not completely out riding. When we went into the pandemic we had a pretty broken welfare because there was too little resources spent on health care. It is also part of the pandemic and something we can learn from. But many residents in the care of the elderly died of course because of the high spread of infection. We were in a worse position than our Nordic neighbours because we didn't know the million people who came in from other countries. I hope, of course, that we get a better pandemic coverage in the world and in Sweden so that we know about where the infection has landed. I think you should always try to take responsibility. The government governs the kingdom, but it was not the one who armed down in the 13 regions governed by the right. The SKR is not controlled by Magdalena Andersson, but by the right parties.
i-5eE63QSW2x1a54F5koPY2L	Madam President, I would like Member Rågsjö says she's not in the government. No, I don't, and unfortunately the Moderates don't either. But it has not prevented us Moderates from taking a major responsibility during the pandemic. In front of me in the Chamber is a gang that has worked very well together. Regardless of the party, we in the Committee on Social Affairs have really worked together. The honourable Member can examine this in Parliament's documents if she does not believe me, but the colleagues in the Committee on Finance deserve to be mentioned for the great amount of money they have put into dealing with the various financial aid. During the first critical months, two committees were in Parliament's premises all along. It was the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on Finance, and it was quite natural that these were working hard in the first few months. We have been working hard for two years, but I believe that none of us in the Committee on Social Affairs will ever forget the first few months. Madam President, I would like Member Rågsjö has a pathological fixation on Region Stockholm. Perhaps it is time for the honourable Member to stand as a candidate for the Regional Council, because it is going on a run-off if we are constantly to discuss and debate precisely Region Stockholm. I think there is another place and another time to do this. I would be happy to come back in the next line and develop this further, but I think that Mr Rågsjö should raise his eyes.
i-99amXxPVahZRPTauUmAz7L	Madam President, I would like I'm not often considered pathological. Maybe that's the new one. Instead of having the Communist card thrown at me, I am now pathologically interested in something. At least this is a development in moderate politics, I have to say. I can also mention Västra Götaland and Skåne. There you are, too, touching the pots, aren't you? What it's all about is that when you go into a pandemic, it's always better to have more employees, for example – where we agree these days – and that you have an elderly care where not 50% are hourly employees. I mention Stockholm because it was the epicenter. Nowhere else in Sweden were so many infected, and nowhere else was there such tangible protective equipment. In principle, a chief physician at SÖS came to work in his diving equipment because of the lack of protective equipment. It was macabre, and the responsibility for it was with the regional politicians. It has been an incredible journey, and the Social Affairs Committee and the Finance Committee have really worked. I also attended all the party leaders' meetings with Jonas and Nooshi and listened, and no party had any fantastic basket of measures in those first months. We have learned a lot from this pandemic, and, yes, responsibility for this lies with the government but also with the regions and municipalities. We have obtained fantastic material from the Commission, and other investigations are being carried out. I hope that vaccination will also be followed up on how, where and when. I hope that it can also really be said that the government is leading the kingdom on these issues, not SPR.
i-XDopTZvPa4QhEQF5AQvhV	Madam President, I would like I would like to take us back a little in time, and then perhaps Mr Rågsjö can also remember that we in the Committee on Social Affairs pushed forward on a number of issues. We were met by a government that was rather asking the first time, when both Mr Rågsjö and the undersigned asked why we had not got started with the testing and why we did not see the need for protective equipment to a greater extent. There were many parts where we pointed out the lack of responsibility and why Sweden was so far behind, for example, our Nordic neighbours. The spread of infection and testing were part of this, but there we met with a government and a public health authority that was questioning and almost lulling about why it should be introduced. It is clear that Stockholm is mentioned again. I note that this is one of the favourite areas when Mr Rågsjö takes the line, but I would like to point out that the Stockholm region took a great deal of responsibility. Even the purchase of protective equipment and other parts was coordinated when the National Board of Health and Welfare and the Government broke into taking a national responsibility. The Stockholm Region took a great responsibility, not only for its own region but also for many other regions when a coordination responsibility needed to be taken. This information may be investigated by Mr Rågsjö. Finally, the document submitted by the Corona Commission shows that a clear national leadership is needed in the event of a social crisis, especially when it covers several sectors of society and therefore several actors with their respective responsibilities. Then it is not enough to rely on rules on organisational arrangements for interaction between authorities and levels, but it is the country's government that has to clearly assume a management responsibility.
i-Bskv5wpRr8poaQa74GL3h	Madam President, I would like Now we are back in the Chamber debating the Pandemic Act. Today, a unanimous Social Committee is in favour of the Government's proposal that the Covid-19 Act and the Act on Temporary Disease Control Measures at Serving Sites should end on 31 March. This is also something that the Committee on Social Affairs agreed to announce to the government in January, when we last debated the law. It's kind of nice that we don't have to have this as an issue. We also say yes to the fact that covid-19 should no longer be considered a public or social disease in Sweden. The repeal of the law therefore means that it is no longer possible for the government to notify regulations under previous mandates and authorizations. This is good for Sweden. Madam President, I would like We can also note that a number of the regulations issued by the Government have been justified, but far from all. During a considerable period of time, the opening hours at restaurants have been limited by regulations in a way that in practice made it difficult for many restaurant owners to carry out their core business. Similarly, theatres and cultural scenes were banned, and sports facilities and libraries were closed. Several consultation bodies have argued that these restrictions had a major and difficult impact on industry, the restaurant industry and, not least, the labour market. There have also been no analyses or evidence to show that these limitations have actually had results in terms of reducing the spread of infection or that they have had an effect. On the other hand, a recent John Hopkins report has found that closures have had a marginal effect on mortality. Madam President, I would like The investigation that the government is now preparing to develop more tools to deal with pandemics in the future, which has been given the name Constitution readiness for future pandemics, we verigedemocrats will carefully analyse and watch. It may be assumed that the government wants to deal with it urgently here too, but we will take our time to look at it. Madam President, I would like In the debate today, we have also mentioned the final report by the Corona Commission. It mentions in particular the situation of care for the elderly, health care and public health in general. It can be interpreted and read throughout that the criticism of the government has been about the slowness, as we Swedish democrats have pointed out. At times, it has been difficult to understand what the government means. At first it was reprehensible to use masks even though the rest of the world advocated it. In the eleventh hour it suddenly became good with mouthguards, and so the people should trust it. Such leadership has been bad for Sweden. The government also received criticism from the Commission for having left too large a mandate to the Public Health Authority to take decisions that have an overall impact and are basically made by a very single individual, such as the Head of Authority. It is, of course, convenient for the government, but the question should still be asked whether it was correct in a crisis situation with such an authorisation – that the parliament pushes power over to the government, which places a great responsibility on an individual and an authority. The Swedish Democrats have always wanted the decisions to be submitted to the Riksdag after the government has made decisions. It would open up for scrutiny and a parliamentary decision by the Swedish Parliament. I believe that this would have been preferable, not least from a democratic perspective, but it would also have given us the opportunity to analyse and deal with it in a more correct way. We would have had more transparency. Madam President, I would like More parties became aware of this proposal at the eleventh hour. In our view, it is a pity that it did not happen earlier in the process. Then I think we had a better political dialogue, not least on the issue of the vaccination certificate, where no parties apart from the government parties had room to influence or express themselves on the substance. This was also bad for Sweden. Well, now I'm gonna do a little ralliing. We're usually right. We have had this on many political issues over the years. I am both happy and proud of this, although it has sometimes cost to be a Swedish democrat. Sometimes it is tough to rake the manegen for others, Madam President, but so are we also a bunch of ordinary snogs in my party. Madam President, I would like Today, we in this House agree that we are happy to see the end of the pandemic, that Sweden can put it behind us and that we can really live again, socialize, take part in cultural offerings, enjoy the fantastic range of restaurants and travel and experience again. After all, we have also learned some positive things from these years. The digital development, not least with digital meetings, has been fast and positive, and we will probably take part in it in general in the future, which streamlines and enables meetings that have been difficult to achieve in the past. Madam President, I would like However, Sweden has a very difficult nut to crack when it comes to staffing in health care. It was tough even before the pandemic, but now, if possible, it is even more strained. People in several professional groups choose to leave care, and the country's care queues continue to grow. Madam President, I would like Sweden has a lot to work with, and we are, of course, prepared to shoulder a greater responsibility in these matters. We still have a great deal of work to do in the Committee on Social Affairs, and I look forward to that.
i-B9MhKjxRNKS7W9YkTZYfyN	Madam President, I would like As early as spring 2020, the Center Party, as the first party, highlighted the need to rapidly develop a temporary pandemic law in order to limit the spread of infection. This was needed in order to be able to deal effectively with restrictions, to limit the spread of infection, to change society, and to compensate companies and industries severely affected by restrictions imposed. The tools available to the government at the time, i.e. the alcohol and order legislation, were not sufficiently effective and accurate and did not guarantee compensation to victims. The government replied after a few months that a temporary law could be in place only after a year. It was after the Center Party gathered a majority in the Riksdag and pressured the government that the work intensified. After intensive work on Christmas 2020, we in this House were able to decide on the first Pandemic Act which has since been extended. This legislation has given the government extraordinary powers to restrict people's freedom. It has been clear from the outset that it would be temporary. Although the covid-19 virus still causes disease and also yields lives, there is no longer a need for such powerful tools. It is therefore entirely right to decide that the law should cease. The report has two reservations. The Left Party proposes that the Riksdag state that the Government should initiate a comprehensive vaccination campaign. The Public Health Agency already has this task, Madam President, and all the regions are working intensively on this issue. The Christian Democrats have proposed a follow-up to the Pandemic Act's impact on public health. Pandemin and the Pandemic Act have had a significant impact on Swedish society. How it is affected will be followed by both the Public Health Agency and a large number of research projects. We therefore see no need for further parliamentary decisions on this issue. Madam President, I would like I therefore support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations.
i-Df7D5uPX649uAGDy6Bc3K4	Madam President, I would like According to the proposal, pandemic laws will finally expire on 1 April, and we will get freedom back. I support the proposal. Is it going to be normal now? I hope so. But it'll be a new one, as usual. We need to make use of all the lessons we have learned in these years. All that we could do better, we need to do better next time, because there will be a next time. All that we have been reminded of, we now need to carve into memory. It is about the importance of being prepared and being able to act quickly when it comes to. It is about the value of vaccines that dramatically improved our odds against this virus, just as vaccines have so many times protected us in modern history. It is also about the importance of a strong healthcare system that is there and receives us when everything collapses. But it is also about the danger of forgetting senior people and people with risk diseases. We must not forget that danger, nor must we forget the danger of overprotecting these people as compensation and making them so lonely and perhaps so isolated that they eventually do not want to live. We'll never do that again. On several of these points, I think we can be proud of ourselves. As far as other points are concerned, I think we really need to remember and bring with us the harsh judgment of the Corona Commission on what we did not and on what we as a country should have done better. Above all, of course, now that we are getting our freedoms back, I hope that we all carry these things with us, not least in the light of what is happening in Europe here and now and that we carry with us the value of our freedoms – our freedom of movement, our freedom of business and our freedom of assembly. Let's take care of them in the future. Sweden's powers really need to deal with what has been with great respect. A follow-up Commission is something that we Liberals have demanded to review how people's future has been affected, especially the future of young people. How has their lives changed in a way that will not be made over? We need to do the best we can there. Of course, we need to take care of all the research results that will come in the years that follow – all the knowledge that we can get about how we can do things as well as we can. Madam President, I would like A great deal of effort is needed to counter the loneliness and vulnerability to violence and illness that children and adults have had to live with during these years. This also applies to economic vulnerability when small businessmen and cultural practitioners have not even been able to pay for their children's fritis without a lump in the stomach. Medical overload and extremely heavy conditions are a serious problem. This is not over, Madam President. Health care needs to be strengthened. Long-term government efforts, strategic Decennie initiatives, more care places and better working conditions must be pursued. But in all of this that we need to do – all this shoveling that we need to engage in together for many years to come – in order to build a strong society with a strengthened preparedness, it is nevertheless amazing that it now looks like the pandemic is over. Now that everything is going into a new one, as usual, I look forward to working together with you for this new and better, as usual, and for a strong preparedness for the future.
i-KNCsCN5n35qf6dC11msyXh	Madam President, I would like In the letter that we are going to debate, the government reports its assessment on the Swedish National Audit Office's observations and recommendations in its report Mesta possible health for tax money. First, I'll give you a brief background. Medicinal products prescribed on prescription are included in the medicine benefits. These medicines are subsidised with tax funds and are subject to high cost protection for patients. The task of the dental and pharmaceutical benefit agency, TLV, is to choose from the medicines that pharmaceutical companies want to be included in the pharmaceutical benefits. TLV uses different models and calculations and is based on an ethical platform to assess whether new drugs meet the needs, such as the cost in relation to health benefits for different treatments. With the accelerating development of new and innovative medicines and the approval of new treatments in an increasingly early phase of drug development, TLV faces major challenges to be able to evaluate the benefits in relation to the cost. Here, the Swedish National Audit Office, but also other actors, highlights difficult problems that need to be improved. We have all been able to follow the debate on new medicinal treatment of cystic fibrosis, where the stakeholders have different views on the right evaluation. Of course, it is gratifying that new and effective medicines are being developed and will benefit patients no matter where they live in the country. However, this must be done in an orderly and resource efficient manner. It is the authority of experts TLV that has the mandate to evaluate which medicines should be included in the benefits. The report proposes a number of improvement measures. I will concentrate on a few of the proposals, Madam President. The Swedish National Audit Office points to the need for increased cooperation and communication. The government's assessment is that there are already platforms for dialogue and cooperation. There are also agreements with SKR, Swedish Municipalities and Regions, and since before there is also the national drug strategy to lean against. Of course, organisation can always be developed and dialogue always improved. The Swedish National Audit Office also points out that the bases for pricing and subsidising different types of medicines need to be developed. These are, for example, new, expensive medicines aimed at small groups of patients. That is why, among other things, the medical investigation was set up at one time. The committee proposes a declaration to the government on a specific strategy and funding for medicines for rare diseases and diagnoses. We Social Democrats believe that there should be no announcement, and I would like to comment further on our written position, Madam President. Recently, an evening newspaper has noted what life can look like for people with severe diagnoses. It was about Kasper and his family. Kasper suffers from a serious brain disease that limits his life in doubt. The report described the difficulties for Kasper and his family in accessing the right healthcare and treatment. This was a story that touched me deeply, and I also have personal experience of it. That is why I cannot stress enough how important it is for people to have access to good treatment in an equal way throughout the country, Madam President. The Government's objective is that all patients should be offered good care on equal terms, and the government has therefore significantly increased the funding for the pharmaceutical benefits. In five years they have increased from 25.9 billion to today's level of 34.4 billion, Madam President. The aim of the increase is to meet the rapid development of new drugs. The National Board of Health and Welfare also mentions in its forecast that this will increase significantly. It is gratifying that new, effective medicines are coming quickly and that there is a broad commitment in Parliament, but it must be a good solution in all parts. Madam President, I would like As I have said, this is a complex issue, but we are fundamentally in agreement. I can inform the Riksdag that the Ministry of Social Affairs has today, via Lena Hallengren, sent an invitation to a dialogue meeting with TLV, SPR and Lif – the researching pharmaceutical companies in order to make the treatment available to patients with rare diseases. Interest groups will also be invited. Hopefully, this is the beginning of the solution to the problem. A further step would be a review of the current system. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to comment on the possibility of good access to health data, as highlighted in the report. It is an important issue, among other things, for the pharmaceutical research companies to be able to access quickly and efficiently the unique register system we have in our country. It would contribute to the desire to expand clinical studies in healthcare, which would benefit patients. That was one of the reasons why the life science strategy was developed. This is a priority for us. Madam President, I would like Here the government has a palette of measures aimed at increasing and simplifying access to data. The E-Health Agency has an exciting mission to look at a national digital infrastructure for Swedish registers. The mission has recently been reported. I commend our reservation number four.
i-Rn6Tp4tHgLDaqKdDxthh2B	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating an important report from the Swedish National Audit Office, namely Most Possible Health for Tax Money – State Subsidisation of Medicines. In its report, the Swedish National Audit Office has examined the work of the Swedish Dental and Pharmaceutical Benefits Agency to assess which medicines are to be subsidised and included in the high-cost protection and the Government's work to provide the conditions for this work. The Moderates welcome the Swedish National Audit Office's report and believe that the Government should implement the recommendations proposed by the Swedish National Audit Office. I am pleased that the committee is proposing a declaration on a specific national strategy and funding for medicines for rare diseases and diagnoses. The audit's overall conclusion is that the government and the Dental and Pharmaceutical Benefits Agency, TLV, can do more to get the most health for the tax money that the public spends on drugs. For example, the Swedish National Audit Office believes that the Government needs to create the conditions for one or more agreements with industry and regions on, among other things, new criteria for pricing and subsidisation that are adapted to the development of the pharmaceutical market. The agreements need to be followed by additional constitutional regulations in this area. In addition, the government needs to make it easier for the regions to manage and follow up the medicinal product sales. In addition, the government needs to provide TLV with the conditions to systematically follow up on decisions made. Madam President, I would like The Government writes that it welcomes the Swedish National Audit Office's review and that it partly agrees with the overall observations. The Government also writes that the Swedish National Audit Office's review report is a valuable basis for further development work regarding, among other things, subsidies in the field of pharmaceuticals. In fact, however, the Government notes that the criticism that the National Audit Office makes in the form of conclusions and recommendations is unnecessary as all necessary work is already underway in the Government Office. Nor does the government draw any concrete conclusions regarding the overall message from the Swedish National Audit Office regarding the need to achieve the highest possible level of health for tax money more methodically. That is deeply regrettable. Medical progress places new demands on old systems and structures, which need to be developed and changed. That is absolutely necessary, and for us Moderates this is an important and priority issue. It is an important political responsibility to ensure that new, more effective medicines come to all patients in need quickly and equally throughout the country. Medical breakthroughs throughout history have had a great impact on people's quality of life and life. The Moderates propose that the Government give a mandate to rapidly renew and update the current national pharmaceutical strategy in order to highlight that equal and good access to new, more effective pharmaceutical treatments should be a high priority of the strategy. The national pharmaceutical strategy needs to be updated more frequently. This is fully in line with the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendation to the government to systematise the work regarding the most health for tax money. The strategy must be developed broadly in cooperation between all relevant actors in the field of pharmaceuticals and medical technology, not only through the agreements between the Government and the Swedish Municipalities and Regions concluded at the beginning of each new mandate. The Moderates propose that the National Medicines Strategy should focus and prioritise measures to facilitate the rapid introduction of new, more effective and safe medicines. The top priority in that part of the new updated drug strategy should be on how new drug treatments to combat childhood cancer can be introduced more quickly, in an equal and systematic manner. So much is happening so quickly in the field of pharmaceuticals and medical technology that the government must quickly change its attitude that all essential work has already begun in the Government Office. Madam President, I would like We Moderates always work constructively to get the best effect on tax money. This should also be done by the government, and in this case it means following the recommendations of the Swedish National Audit Office. To conclude, Madam President, we naturally support all our reservations, but for the benefit of time, I only ask for our reservation 1.
i-3b7fRDwpvX5K3xBY1Cr2hh	Madam President, I would like I usually stand here in the speaker's chair in Parliament and commend the Swedish health care system and say how proud I am of it. But there are some areas where I am not proud. I can say that I am even ashamed when I meet people suffering from cystic fibrosis. Cystic fibrosis is a congenital disease, and about 700 people in Sweden have it. It is an incredibly severe disease because the mucous membranes produce a tough mucus that causes problems both from the airways and from the gastrointestinal tract. It is usually the lung injuries that cause the biggest problems. Those suffering from this disease are allowed to spend hours each day in respiratory therapy and to inhale. They get antibiotics that relieve each other, but yet many so severe lung damage that transplantation is the last resort. Unfortunately, many die far too young. Until recently, there has been no really effective, curative treatment, despite the fact that for a few decades it has been known exactly at the molecular level what is wrong. But a few years ago there was a fantastic breakthrough with an effective, curative treatment with a new drug called Kaftrio. It's a tablet you take three times a day. The effect is often quite dramatic. I finally got a healthy mother, said the daughter of a woman who has cystic fibrosis. Recently I met a young man who said: My lung function has gone from FEV1 23% to 64%. FEV1 is a very good measure of lung function where we who are healthy are around 90 percent. Madam President, I would like Here is the reason why I am ashamed of the rules in Swedish health care. Although there is now, in principle, a curative treatment for a disease that can be fatal, and that very few Swedes are affected by but where those affected have been affected all the more, this medicine is not provided in Sweden. In the United States it has been available since 2019. Most other EU countries, apart from Malta, I believe, ensure that these patients receive Kaftrio. Today, 30 countries have taken this into the subsidy system, but not Sweden. This is not done in Sweden because we, which is actually one of the richest countries in the world, think this is too expensive. Yes, you heard correctly: in Sweden this is considered too expensive. Like a lung transplant would be cheaper. Like a life with severe lung disease would be easier. As if an abbreviated life could be valued in money. How does this relate to each other? Well, the model that we in Sweden use when new drugs are to be priced is based on the assumption that new drugs will be used by a lot of people. It costs 10 – 15 billion to produce a new medicine. If this cost can be offset by thousands or hundreds of thousands of people, the price will be low. But that model does not work, Madam President, with a medicine to be used for a very small group of patients. Then it's wrong. Then the cost is too high according to the Swedish way of counting, but not according to how you count in other countries. The lung and pediatricians who care for patients with cystic fibrosis are now totally despairing of not being able to offer a revolutionary, almost curative medicine to their patients. It is a group of patients who, without Kaftrio, are slowly facing death because of their illness. I have received a letter that says: It is almost incomprehensible that Sweden does not provide such an innovation quickly. In Poland, their minister of health congratulated their CF patients on the fact that they were now given effective medicine. We had, they further write, looked forward to spring when we could prescribe pills to our CF patients and thus dramatically improve their lives. For the hundreds of patients who have this disease, the manslaughter rate has become even worse, and they are beginning to find their own solutions. Myra, 38 years old, has moved to Denmark. There medicine is provided in high-cost protection. Myra says: Denmark has received me with open arms! In Östersund-Posten this morning Daniel, nurse from Ytterån, who has CF: I'm desperate, really sad and walk with a lump in my throat. I feel betrayed. I paid more taxes last year than this drug would cost. I quit my job and quit my lease. The move to Copenhagen will take place on 1 June. There I am welcome, both as a nurse and as a CF patient in need of Kaftrio. Another patient told me that she had capital from her parents who sold her house gone to Argentina - and she is not alone - because there you can buy the preparation in the open market. 500,000 kronor, she says, is enough for one year's treatment. Madam President, I would like It wouldn't have to be like this. That so-called orphan drugs, that is, new medicines used by few patients, so late comes into use in Sweden is not a new problem. I have chosen to tell you in this House about Kaftrio and cystic fibrosis but could have chosen from a number of other examples. The fact that it is so bad in Sweden is due to political decisions, or more right is to say that it is due to the lack of political decisions. The government has repeatedly received reports and briefings that have lifted the problem but have not fixed the root of the evil. Inaction has been striking. This is such a contrast for me when the government is now to produce a bill at lightning speed that makes it difficult for employers who choose to take out private health insurance for their employees, metals and construction workers. Then it is quick to come up with a proposal that can be used in the election campaign but that will in no way improve health care in this country. But when it comes to enabling severely ill patients to have access to modern orphan drugs, the problem is pushed to the future. The reason we have this debate is that the Swedish National Audit Office has come up with criticism of the government's slowness. R apporten has made that we in the Social Affairs Committee now have a majority in favour of a sharp order to the government. There is, Madam President, a party and a person who can choose to make a difference for this group of patients. I do not agree with the Social Democrat who stood earlier here in the speaker's chair – we do not agree. I would therefore like to call on you Social Democrats and, above all, Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren from the House of Parliament: make sure that the problem is resolved! Make sure that people with cystic fibrosis can get their Kaftrio and do not need to sell the house to buy the medicine on the market in Argentina, move to Denmark, be forced to a lung transplant or at worst face an premature death. On behalf of the Centre Party, I support the committee's proposal in the report, but I also support reservation 3 where, unfortunately, we have not obtained a majority. It concerns an area which is further diluting this problem, namely that if you are in need of precision medicine, it is not a question of a few hundred patients needing the medicine, but it is one or two, and that is exactly the same problem.
i-FuBKmjXEBQZPYNi8GsbTng	Madam President, I would like Member Jonsson is addressing one of the problem areas that I also mentioned in my speech, namely the issue of orphan drugs, special medicines, and their fantastic development, but also their costs to society. With today's system, as you know, Madam President, the TLV values the benefit versus the cost. However, I do not agree with the honourable Member's description of the passive attitude of the government, as he puts it, or the approach of the Social Democratic Members of the Committee. For us, this is an equally important issue. If any party in this country has fought year after year for the equal value of all people, it is the Social Democrats. Madam President, I would like On this issue, it is primarily a matter of legislation. TLV has a law to follow that we in this House have said okay to together. No minister can go in and steer this matter in five minutes. Then you'll be reported to the KU. I would therefore like to emphasise that the government's initiative via Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren is due to the desire to solve this particular problem. Stakeholders are now invited to dialogue, to review how we deal with this complex issue. We must also remember the back of this coin. It's very difficult to assess matter. In the individual case, I have no opinion, because I do not know the question. I just note that there are different opinions. With my heart, I say exactly what you say in your speech, Anders W Jonsson, that patients should of course have this. Madam President, I would like My question to Anders W Jonsson is as follows: You have until recently been a member of the government. How has the Center Party acted on this issue?
i-8CRVimykpC72o6KYFpbx3T	Madam President, I would like I may wish the Center Party had joined the government, but we have not. We have had budget cooperation and also a January agreement. Mikael Dahlqvist just puts his finger on the problem; this is about legislation. It's not about the TLV making bad decisions. And I certainly do not ask the Minister to go in and direct the authority's decision. But something needs to be done about what has been evident for a large number of years, that the model we have for valuing medicines and discussing pricing is not working with regard to orphan drugs. The only party and the only person who can initiate such a fairly comprehensive legislative change, which could correct the problem in both orphan drugs and perhaps even worse precision medicine, are the Social Democrats and Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren. I certainly do not ask her to go in and try to do something contrary to the form of government, but it is only she who can change the relationship by ensuring that we get new legislation. It is great that a majority in the Committee on Social Affairs is behind the proposal for an announcement. Unfortunately, however, this will not change the reality of the people affected by this. Cystic fibrosis and Kaftrio are an example. However, there are a number of other examples that the model we have for calculating the price of medicines is outdated in relation to this type of medicine. Here we say it is too expensive; it costs 1 1⁄2 million. At the same time, however, one might ask what a lung transplant costs. Legislation must be produced here, and the only ones that can do so are the Social Democrats and Minister for Social Affairs Lena Hallengren. Make sure you do it!
i-DiYUeDQibn6hQDJHUELnoa	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your reply, Mr Jonsson. I note that we are fundamentally in agreement. I believe that we have the same ambition and objective: that all patients should be allowed to take part in the new medicines. But I also note that until recently, the Center Party was part of the government, admittedly in terms of budgetary cooperation. But on a lot of issues dealt with in our committee, the Center Party has been successful in many negotiations and has also raised other issues. Sometimes, then, Madam President, it feels a little like the honourable Member is pushing the case over. My final question to Anders W Jonsson remains. Why didn't you act on this issue until recently when you were in the government? The question has not arisen today or yesterday. It's been up to date for at least one to two years.
i-BcAGbu41vsPgTJVFV4V2T7	Madam President, I would like I must again correct Mikael Dahlqvist's view that the Center Party or I should have been in the government. It hasn't been like that. However, I can tell him that the problem was partly known also during the time of the alliance government. That's when you started to discover it. But it does not deprive the Social Democrats and, above all, Minister Lena Hallengren of responsibility today. The only one who could take the initiative to solve the problem is the Government. Then it is not enough to have a common ambition, and it is not enough to give assignments to various authorities and try to consult. What is needed in this matter is a change of law, so that we get a model for evaluating orphan drugs and even more precision medicine. The cost of developing a new drug is SEK 10 – 15 billion. If only 100 people are going to use that medicine in Sweden and the equivalent in other countries, it will of course be a very expensive medicine. But it is still cheaper in relation to the alternatives. We are one of the richest countries in the world. It goes without saying that we should be able to pay for this part. It is not enough for the Social Democrats to say that we have a common ambition and that we are in agreement. Now it's time for a workshop. It is you who can ensure that these patients have access to orphan drugs, Mikael Dahlqvist. I am very pleased that later today we will be able to decide that Parliament is making a strong call for this. But at the end of the day it is the Social Democrats and Lena Hallengren who are sitting on the key and who have the opportunity to really do something about the poor people who have now had a hit with cystic fibrosis being forced to go to Argentina to buy drugs or sell the house and move to Copenhagen. That should not be the case in one of the richest countries in the world, Madam President.
i-yRMeXzquNhTMG2sfKVSGd	Madam President, I would like Equal care requires equal medication. On the issue we are now discussing, there needs to be a little hands on. I am addressing the Social Democrats. For expensive and specially designed drugs and long-term treatments aimed at small patient groups, operating cost models are currently lacking. That is why we need new financial solutions for this type of medicine. As the situation is now, people with severe and serious diseases are at risk of not being treated because they are not considered sufficiently cost-effective. Madam President, I would like Instead of giving, new medicines can make patients healthier for real. We'll try to protect that. For those with cystic fibrosis, the rules that exist mean that the patient group sometimes chooses to pay out of their own pocket or to move to Denmark to get medicine and have the chance to see their children grow up. The situation in our neighbouring countries and the rest of Europe is different in terms of access to these medicines, Madam President. We get a little odd in this context. It feels, to say the least, unworthy, extremely unworthy. Recently, a new application was submitted to the Dental and Pharmaceutical Benefits Agency – I will continue to talk about TLV – about subsidies for a drug for those who have cystic fibrosis. In assessing which medicinal products are to be included in the benefits, account shall be taken of needs and solidarity, the equal value of people and cost-effectiveness. However, it is important that cost-effectiveness should be subordinated to the other two principles. Severe diseases with marked deteriorations in quality of life should therefore be given priority. But that is not the case today. It's about having the right disease. For the Left Party, it is important that everyone should have the right to equal and good health care. The basic principle is that care should be provided according to people's needs. It should not depend on whether you have, for example, private insurance or own funds that enable private solutions or move abroad. However, in another debate we may also have to point out that pharmaceutical companies should review their unfair profits in certain contexts. According to the benefit law, TLV must have a socio-economic perspective when assessing whether or not a medicinal product should be included in the benefits. How TLV assesses the severity of the disease has become more important for the willingness to pay for new medicines as more medicines are launched against severe and unusual conditions. We now need to review the system. It simply cannot cope with these new preparations entering the market. Therefore, it is important that TLV has clear principles for the assessment to be made. There are a number of partially unresolved issues related to the assessment of the severity of a disease. How should you deal with diseases that come in relapses? How should you weigh premature death in relation to a long life with poor health? Should you count reduced life expectancy in the number of years lost or as a percentage of the remaining expected life expectancy? How should you view treatments that prevent severe illness? Are the effects on relatives to be included? There are quite a few issues we need to take into account. Everyone should be able to trust the healthcare system in Sweden. As a party, the Left Party wants to invest more money to get better health care and has proposed that the government investigate the conditions for the state to have special support for regions for those treatments and medications that are extra costly. Equal care requires equal economic governance. No matter where you live and who you are, you should get the best care and treatment. The assessments of treatments that prolong life must be reviewed and made more transparent, clear and fair. Madam President, I would like I request your approval for reservation number three.
i-PokExCfDq36yAsUMXrKycP	Madam President, I would like A week ago, I stood here in the speaker's chair and was very pleased that a majority in Parliament had finally supported the Christian Democrats' proposals that could save personal assistance. I am grateful that more parties have finally realised that the only worthy thing is that personal assistance should be given to people with extensive disabilities during an entire toilet visit, not like today just the time it takes to dry the butt, and to put on all the clothes, not just the clothes closest to the body today. A week ago, I was also pleased that a majority here in Parliament had supported the proposal of the Christian Democrats and Moderates that national guidelines on rehabilitation, habilitation and aids should be drawn up. It is an important step towards equal health care, where rehabilitation and habilitation are of high quality and are seen as a natural part of the treatment chain. Today, Madam President, I am pleased again, this time that a majority in the Committee on Social Affairs has supported a proposal tabled by us Christian Democrats and by the Liberals as the only parties. It is a proposal that, when it comes to reality, can be life-changing for people living with a rare disease. I therefore wholeheartedly support the committee's proposal for a declaration. I would also like to extend warm thanks to the parties – the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats, the Left Party, the Green Party and, not least, the Center Party – who have supported the proposal from the Christian Democrats and the Liberals. In fact, I would also like to read out the whole position that you have supported, because that is very clear. 中 Patients throughout the country need to have access to the best available care in an equal way. In the case of medicines which generally reach very small groups of patients and are produced in smaller quantities, the Committee would stress that it is of great importance for the patients concerned to have access to these medicines. Concrete measures are needed in this area. According to the committee, a specific national strategy and funding is needed for patients across the country to have access to medicines for rare diseases and diagnoses. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like Sweden is one of the few countries that do not have a national strategy for rare diseases. Today's position of the Committee on Social Affairs is long awaited for many families and for parents who today do not have access to medicines that can literally prolong their children's lives. But, Madam President, as with the issues of assistance and rehabilitation, the Social Democrats will vote against this proposal. It is therefore uncertain whether the government will realise the parliament's will and make sure that these important decisions are put in place. The actions of the Social Democrats are regrettable. Living with a rare diagnosis often involves complicated care and a great need for support throughout your life. Rare diseases can also be associated with a severe severity involving reduced life expectancy and reduced quality of life. I can therefore only imagine what it feels like for the families affected when the Social Democrats are not willing to act to ensure that all patients throughout the country will have access to the best available medicines for the treatment of rare diseases and diagnoses. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats believe that it is not good enough for the Social Democrats to refer to the fact that they do not want to anticipate the work and preparation that takes place in the Government Office on the basis of the proposals of the pharmaceutical investigation. The final report of the pharmaceutical investigation was presented in January 2019, Madam President. It has therefore been more than three years without the government moving forward with the investigation's proposals. It clearly shows that this issue is not a government priority. But the families affected can no longer wait. In desperation, many even feel compelled to move abroad to access orphan drugs. As a Christian Democrat, I believe that this is an unworthy situation. The actions of the Social Democrats show once again that they do not give sufficient priority to issues affecting people with disabilities or serious illnesses. There is therefore a need for a new government with a strong Christian Democratic influence. Madam President, I would like The families affected are being torn apart here and now. They cannot wait until the September elections. I therefore assume that the Social Democrats will reconsider and urgently implement the decision that we will take in this House later today. Madam President, I would like I would also like to ask for the approval of reservation number 3. It is a proposal from us in the Christian Democrats as the only party. The proposal concerns the financing of precision medicine. These innovative treatments bear high costs, but may also allow patients to recover after only one or a few treatment sessions. We must therefore find forms of payment models for precision medicine where the initial high costs are related and take into account the overall socio-economic perspective based on the fact that patients can have a significantly improved quality of life after treatment. Finally, Madam President, I and the Christian Democrats believe that the government should act promptly to ensure that the recommendations presented by the National Audit Office in its current report are implemented. When life is at its head and people suffer severe illness, the safety net of the public must be strong. That patients should be able to access the best treatment at a reasonable cost regardless of where in the country they live is a prerequisite. For that to happen, the government must act.
i-2Qrtpk4JUF4rWzXVMYqYye	Madam President, I would like I think I was very clear in my speech about why we say no to the announcement. We have also written a special opinion explaining why we believe that the issue should not be pursued through this tool, which Parliament and the committee have the opportunity to do. Pia Steensland knows very well that announcements are a tool that is used, above all, when the opposition wants to push the government on some issue. It's worked that way all these years. But in the last parliamentary term, this tool has been used a little too much. It is not always a question of having a different view of the government in the announcement, but of the government dealing with the matter in a different way from what the opposition is proposing, Madam President. The government has been very clear when it came to ensuring healthcare during the pandemic. As I said in my speech, billions have also been paid to ensure the availability of new medicines. It has gone from just over 25 billion five years ago to almost 35 billion at present. They also have a lot of missions and discussions. Last but not least, the Minister of Social Affairs has today announced that she is having a special dialogue with the parties concerned to find a way forward for us to finance these new medicines, which today may not be properly calculated by the TLV, the Dental and Pharmaceutical Benefits Agency. My question, Madam President, to Mr Steensland is this: how does Pia Steensland believe that an announcement will speed up this issue in March?
i-6jMdnD4MxmgANGNz8jLzy9	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mikael Dahlqvist, for the question! That's very clear. The announcement has forced the government to do something so as not to stand completely empty-handed in the debate today. The dialogue initiated today is a good first step. It's beautiful, but it needs more. When the government does not deliver sufficiently powerfully and quickly and when people get hurt and do not get the medicines they need to live, it is our duty as opposition to act. The reservation referred to by Mrs Dahlqvist states that we do not want to act now because the matter is being prepared in the Government Office. It has been doing so for three years, Madam President. Three years is a very long time when a life hangs on a thread and then it's about getting the drugs needed for you to survive. It is not good enough for the government to take the issue in the long term. You have to act. I am very grateful that the Liberals are involved in calling for a national strategy and a review of funding. I am also grateful to the other parties for supporting this. But I am very disappointed with the Social Democrats. Can you not see that there is an opportunity here to find a consensus in Parliament so that we can move forward in the best way and on a strong front on this issue?
i-VsKspFCryfKxbiCAyq4dSS	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Pia Steensland, for your answer! The government has acted forcefully, although the honourable Member has a different view. I just announced how much more resources have been added. With regard to the pharmaceutical investigation to which the honourable Member refers, Madam President, it is true that it is still being prepared, and it has been a few years. However, this is also due to the fact that there are strong forces against the investigation, including Sweden's Municipalities and Regions. It includes the Christian Democrats who also have views on the investigation. Unfortunately, there has not yet been a consensus. So there is a story behind why some issues take longer, Madam President. I would also like to emphasise that we Social Democrats are not heartless. As I said, we are guarantors of patients who are having a difficult time, and we are guarantors that those who need society's safety net also get it. However, on this issue, which is primarily of a technical and assessment nature, we believe that it should be dealt with properly. A correct way is not an announcement. An announcement only means that the government will start a new investigation, but the government is already dealing with this problem in the department. This is also shown by Minister Hallengren's statement today when she specifically calls on the parties. This is not because you in the opposition have pushed forward on this issue. There are also Social Democrats outside the Government Office who work with various issues in the party. Finally, my question remains. How do you think an announcement will give faster workshops than what the government is already doing?
i-3SbjqZAcVV62DBMbQrcdsh	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mikael Dahlqvist, for the question! An announcement to the government from a majority in the Riksdag that has set its foot down can not least give hope to those families that are now having such a difficult time because their children or other relatives do not get the medicines they need. Perhaps it is a bit of a coincidence, Madam President, that the initiative of the government came just today. I welcome that. That's good. But it is incredibly important that we in Parliament are clear. More needs to be done. There is a drug investigation that has three years on its neck without any concrete results. By emphasizing the importance of the issues, I hope that the government will get a little more momentum under its feet and move forward on the matter. You don't have to take all the suggestions from the Pharmaceutical investigation and deal with them right away. Some parts can be removed to meet Parliament's will that we need to act urgently in a particular area. This is about families, Madam President. People's lives are being torn apart. We can't have that. We need to find a way. Sweden is one of the very few countries in the world that lacks a national strategy for how to deal with rare diseases and their funding. I think it is very important that Parliament now says that this is a priority issue and that the government should implement it.
i-Syd4vG2BbJ8aezimrkXbf6	Madam President, I would like Today we are making a very important decision for people with rare diseases. It is a question of human rights, which the Liberals have been working on for 20 years. But, as you all know, politics takes time in a democracy. On the other hand, one then has a solid basis for the positions one makes. Today we are proposing an announcement to the government on a specific strategy and funding for medicines for rare diseases or diagnoses. Why is this so important? It is a question of human rights that people with rare diagnoses should have the same right as people with common diagnoses to have access to the treatment that has been approved. In this case, the medicinal product that has been approved by the European medicines control and the Swedish medicines control system, but without access to the funds, is considered to be too expensive. It is not that we in our society lack money for drugs. If we prescribed drugs to people with common diseases more effectively, we would have money for people with more rare diagnoses. How has it come to this? The drugs developed in the 20th century concerned public diseases and large patient groups. But by the end of the 20th century, this injustice began to creep out. People with rare diagnoses had no treatment at all other than symptomatic treatment. At that time, the European Union went out and invested research funds so that we could also raise funds against the rarity. European medicines control was given specific means to improve the effectiveness of clinical trials of these medicinal products. It is a question of clinical trials that extend globally. The patients are so few. If a sufficient number is to be collected, patients must be sought in different countries, and this requires a specific approach to the technique of comparability. The assessment process for the benefit and risk of these medicinal products was also rationalised. This has been useful when assessing the covid-19 vaccines in the near future. This is what has been achieved. At the same time, consideration began to be given to how these drugs would benefit the patients. It was felt that the EU should create the Centres of Excellence, because specialist centres are needed, partly for clinical trials, and partly for proper treatment and follow-up of these patients. We have partly pursued this in Sweden, and this is precisely where this strategy comes in. What is currently worrying the EU and the European medicines control is precisely funding, which the EU cannot interfere with because it is subsidiary. But will the high prices mean that it does not pay to produce medicines for these diseases when they are not put on the market? A thinking and discussion is now emerging here on how to ensure – and this also applies to precision medicine – that you do not get promising research results that then do not benefit the patients. Then it is not anyone who is interested in researching the drugs. There would be serious consequences. That is why I very much hope that this will now be a start. The dialogue initiated by the government must not become a long bench. We urgently need to resolve the problems of patients moving to another EU country or buying the funds far away. We must also have a stable funding system based on a knowledge-based strategy to ensure that there is equal care in Sweden worthy of the name. I would like to conclude by saying that long ago I attended a workshop in chief, where there were elements of ethics. As decision-makers, you would always change your mind with the one before you. How does it feel, in this case for a patient with spinal muscle atrophy or some other rare disease, to know that you are not worth living, that society cannot afford you? How does it feel for the person's parents, siblings, workmates or classmates to also hear that some people we can't afford in Sweden? What we as chief executives then learned was that if we felt that this is not the way to act and say, we would go to the government and say: We need to change the legislation. And that's exactly what we need to do for these patients. I am very pleased that it is a clear majority for this really crucial decision that we are going to take today for people who feel: I am not worth anything. Society doesn't want to bet on me. From today on, they should feel that we all – because I think the Social Democrats are also in the pipeline – think that everyone is worth investing in.
i-5WfuoNpuoq4iewJmFdnGQa	Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office's report on state subsidies for pharmaceuticals highlights many important and relevant aspects and views. The Swedish Democrats share the Swedish National Audit Office's conclusion that both the Government and the Dental and Pharmaceutical Benefits Agency can do more to get the most health for the tax funds invested in pharmaceuticals. In the letter, the Government describes a number of measures relating to the observations and recommendations presented by the Swedish National Audit Office. According to the Government, these measures concern inter alia consultations between the State and SKR and also with stakeholders within the framework of the work on the national pharmaceutical strategy. The work on the pharmaceutical investigation's proposals is certainly ongoing. There is also a new investigation into long-term and sustainable legal regulation regarding the disclosure of pharmaceutical sales statistics and, in addition, a number of government assignments to TLV, the National Board of Health and Welfare and the E-Health Agency. However, this is not enough. The fact that the pandemic has meant that work on the national pharmaceutical strategy has not been possible in a desirable way is, of course, regrettable, but it is something for which we can have some understanding. However, it is important to point out that we expect that work on the strategy will now take off and that many of the views expressed in the Swedish National Audit Office's review will also be taken into account in the further work. Having said that, we will follow the Government's continued work on the basis of the problem descriptions that we have heard. And we are certainly no stranger to coming back on this issue, if there is any reason for it. Madam President, I would like Due to the rarity of individual diagnoses and the high number of rare diagnoses, it becomes impossible for individual doctors to have knowledge of all the diagnoses that exist. For this reason, patients with rare diseases will have to wait a long time for diagnosis if they are diagnosed at all. In fact, in addition to this, there are also no targeted treatments for many of these diagnoses. Our view is that patients with rare diagnoses and diseases throughout the country should have access to the best available care available in Sweden in an equal way. The aim must be to create the conditions for better care of all children, adolescents and adults with rare diagnoses. Similarly, we need to work to ensure access to orphan medicines. Orphan medicines are produced in small amounts and are medicines that generally reach small groups of patients. Therefore, it is incredibly important that the current patient group be given equal opportunities for drug treatment. We therefore find it problematic that TLV's regulatory framework is allegedly making it difficult for patients in need of orphan medicinal products. At European level, the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products (EMA) has adopted measures such as reduced fees and more efficient management in order to speed up the approval of new orphan medicinal products. The Swedish Medical Products Agency also works effectively to approve new substances. Unfortunately, the TLV is the brake ball in this respect. Improved access to orphan drugs can mean both reduced suffering and a longer life. We therefore take seriously the fact that this group of patients is being squeezed in this way. On 8 June 2009, the Council of the European Union issued a Recommendation on rare diseases, which called on Member States to draw up and adopt by the end of 2013 as soon as possible a plan or strategy for the management and structuring of all relevant measures in this field within the framework of Member States' health and social security systems. The recommendation aims, inter alia, to ensure that patients with rare diseases have access to high quality care, diagnostics, treatment and guidance to learn to live with their disease and, if possible, to ensure that patients have access to appropriate orphan medicinal products. It is therefore gratifying that a majority in the committee is now proposing a declaration to the government on a specific national strategy and funding for medicines for rare diseases and diagnoses. The Swedish Democrats therefore support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-5gPJ7PKem7SCPGneNfQcH9	Madam President, I would like Just as we debate these important issues, there is a family stay at Ågrenska for families who have children with epidermolysis bullosa, abbreviated EB. It is a collective name for some thirty different hereditary diseases that cause blistering in the skin and sometimes even in mucous membranes. In Sweden there are 400 to 500 people with the disease. However, mild forms are unlikely to be always diagnosed, so the number can be significantly higher. If there are audiences who do not really know what Ågrenska is, I can inform you that it is an idea-based organisation that works for the development of skills and the exchange of experiences between children, young people and adults with rare diagnoses and disabilities, their families and the staff they meet. Living with a rare diagnosis often means having both a disability and an additional problem because the disease is not fully known. It can sometimes be very tough to both have a disability and also have to act as your own lawyer or to have loved ones who help and act as mouthpieces. For example, a large part of the meeting with the healthcare profession can be spent merely informing about the disease. The drainpipes we have today in health care are not fully adapted to the type of collaboration that these individuals need. There may also be difficulties with continuity when we have high staff turnover. Then you get to meet different individuals all the time. In some cases it may be difficult to find the right expertise in the country, and sometimes you feel very lonely. There is also often a great need for several different collaborative actors in the healthcare sector, in the authorities and in the municipalities with the various support available there. I would like to take this opportunity to highlight the Green Party's proposals. We think that you should be able to call a SIP yourself and not have to wait for the region or the municipality to call. Since a regulation in the EU came into being a little more than 20 years ago, the drive for pharmaceutical companies to produce medicines has increased. Although the momentum has increased, many diagnoses today lack approved treatment. I can take this opportunity to express my thanks to Mr Westerholm, who gave us a very solid background on drugs. Today we have a situation in our country where we accept a high cost of medicines when the patient group is small. However, there are patients who do not get access to treatment because the treatment is not considered sufficiently cost-effective for the least sick in a group. This certainly applies if the patient does not pay himself. But that cost is very high. For the group of rare diagnoses, the cost of drugs is rarely high. I believe that we need a system in which everyone who needs the medicine should have it as well. Patients throughout the country need equal access to the best available care. That is why I share the point of departure of the Christian Democrats and Liberals that a specific national strategy and funding is needed for patients throughout the country to have access to medicines for rare diseases and diagnoses.
i-A1n8iJa8v9ygGrKrvHip4v	Madam President, I would like The goal of Swedish healthcare is good health and care on equal terms for the entire population. Care should be given with respect for the equal value of all people, and priority should be given to those most in need of care, health and medical care. The Health Act is also clear on another issue, Madam President: it is the regions and municipalities that are responsible for health care in Sweden. This includes, of course, ensuring access to an appropriate number of care places and ensuring adequate staffing, a good working environment and occupational health care. Nevertheless, it often sounds from large parts of the opposition, which governs the majority of all the regions of Sweden, that it is the Social Democratic Government alone that is responsible for the human resources crisis that is now prevailing in Swedish health care. It is a false picture but, of course, a perfectly conscious strategy. For it cannot simply be, Madam President, that, as a parliamentary politician responsible for health issues in this House, we are fighting for more places of care, better staffing and shorter care queues when the party comrades who run the regions are imposing major saving requirements on hospitals while going with large surpluses. That is why, Madam President, today's debate can in all likelihood be perceived as confusing to the listener. The debate is based on a so-called committee initiative, i.e. a call from the Riksdag to the Government, to increase the number of care places, to shorten the care queues, to improve the working environment and to prevent and remedy physical and mental illness. That is to say, the government should do what their party comrades in the regions themselves are unable to do. Nevertheless, I would like to point out, Madam President, that I think it is extremely important and good that health care and its important staff are a high priority for Members of Parliament, from all parties. And, Madam President, although responsibility for the resulting human resources crisis in health care rests primarily with the regions, the government has, of course, an overall responsibility. That is precisely why, not least throughout the pandemic, the government has provided the regions with historically large economic contributions – in fact, so large that several regions have not even used all the extra funds, but instead gone with large surpluses. But we are seeing a crisis in Swedish health care. This is, above all, a human resources crisis, and although it has become increasingly evident during the pandemic, it has been built up for a long time. It is therefore quite clear that Sweden needs more care places and more extended primary care, that the staff need better working conditions, that they need more colleagues and that the care queues need to be shortened. It is an important and, to say the least, a high priority work by the government. In addition to the historically large contributions to the regions, the government has also initiated an extremely important reform of primary care. Strong primary care increases the possibility of preventing severe illness and thus prevents unnecessary hospitalisation. In addition, the National Board of Health and Welfare has been tasked with paying more than 400 million to the regions in order to increase the number of care places. The government also contributes through several measures to increase the attractiveness of becoming a specialist nurse and creating more career paths. We know that this is extremely important and requested and crucial for maintaining existing staff. Among other things, SEK 500 million is allocated annually for more nurses to want to further train as a specialist nurse. In addition, SEK 100 million is allocated annually to the regions' important work in creating development and career opportunities for specialist nurses with in-depth expertise in key areas. It was also the government, Madam President, that set up the National Council for Health Care Competences, precisely in order to promote strategic work on the supply of skills. The government has also increased the number of training places and allocated funds to more places for placement training, known as the VFU. The National Board of Health and Welfare has been tasked with, among other things, analysing and proposing target and guideline values regarding the number of care places and occupancy rates, including specific targets for the severely strained intensive care. The E-Health Agency has been tasked with conducting a preliminary study on how a national healthcare search system can be developed in order to increase accessibility and make optimal use of existing capacity. This can also shorten waiting times for patients and improve the working environment for staff. The government also wants to make it easier for patients to list themselves on a health centre and that everyone should have the same opportunities to list themselves at the health centre they want. The level of ambition in the field of work has also increased in recent years, and the Swedish Work Environment Authority has received increased resources that have led to more inspections being carried out. They have also, fully in accordance with their mandate from the Government, conducted a targeted supervisory effort focusing on sectors that are exposed to the risk of transmission of covid-19. Finally, the Agency for Safety and Health at Work has been tasked with obtaining and compiling knowledge about occupational health and safety risks among health professionals. So, as you can hear, Madam President, the government is doing a tremendous amount of work in many of the different areas that the parties that are today behind the proposed announcement are lifting, even though in most of the points the responsibility lies, in fact, with their own comrades in the regions. We are also clear that this work is, and must be, a high priority – in the regions, in Parliament and in the government. Madam President, I would like We also see a risk that Swedish healthcare will become more unequal if the proposals in the committee initiative go through. For example, a recent report from the Swedish Agency for Health and Welfare Analysis found that freedom of choice is appreciated but also risks leading to a more unequal treatment. According to the report, the regions should take into account the risk of the conflict of objectives that may arise from freedom of choice when organising and managing health care. We believe that it is extremely important that all decisions we make are based on making the Swedish healthcare system more equal, not the other way round. Then it is particularly important to take into account the knowledge that exists about how healthcare becomes more equal, that we all have different conditions and that care should be available to each of us according to needs, no matter where you live, what conditions you have or how big your wallet is. In view of this, Madam President, I would like to endorse our reservation number 1.
i-Cy95LcNM3ofEiebHvvaKm3	Madam President, I would like The government governs the kingdom and has overall responsibility. But the regions control health care. Let's not forget that. And in the regions, the Moderates and the KD rule in 13 regions, if I have counted correctly. The center operates in 19 regions. It is not Magdalena Andersson who rushes around in the regions and rigs, it is politicians of other colours. Madam President, I would like When we have contacted our regional politicians in the country – and we have contacted them all – they say that there are cuts in g everywhere, this despite the fact that the regions have spent money on high. You can think about that. Nor should we forget the municipalities and regions of Sweden, which are not an authority but an employer organisation. Right-wing parties are in charge right now. We submitted a proposal for a committee initiative a few months ago, when we saw that the large loss of public health was only continuing and that the staff took the beatings and thus the patients as well. The crisis we are now seeing in health care is a clear human resources crisis. The situation has been strained for decades, I would say. It is about the bloodletting that has occurred precisely in public health care. This is a lack of care places due to a shortage of staff, for example in the area of iva, intensive care. It is a question of the regions not being able to resolve this human resources crisis. It requires higher wages, more employees and better working hours in the form of reduced working hours for those on call. It is necessary for the state to take greater responsibility for education in all health professions. Equal national economic governance is needed in health care. The whole health market needs to be regulated in order, for example, to ensure that the net doctors are not able to ski more at the expense of the regions. There is a need for review and follow-up so that the regions cannot spend money on top of the money received from the state. Health professionals must be able to see that the efforts made are long-term, not just short-term. I think that all parties must take responsibility for the fact that there have been very short-term initiatives over the years. There is also a need for space and opportunity to be created to find solutions here and now in order to bring in more staff, for example, to raise wages and restructure in order to improve working conditions. It is extremely important when we see many people leaving public health services in the regions. There is a need for a national plan and analysis of the need for the number of care places. There is also a need for a long-term national economic plan for initial, continuing and continuing training for health professionals, such as offering nurses the possibility of paid specialist training throughout the country. And so on. We would also like to look at the consumption of care, if you may say so, and compare a little between the regions and see who does what and why. In the motion for a committee initiative submitted by the Left, a few days before the second group submitted its own, we wanted to: 中 that the Government immediately appoints a national crisis commission for better health and safety at work which takes account of the above points. In the near future, the government will draw up a plan to address the shortage of care places. In the short term, the government ensures that funds for health care go to operations and not to surpluses. In the near future, the government will review the working environment in healthcare. That's what we did. Many of these points matched the second draft committee initiative, which came from the other parties. However, there were parts of it that we could not support, and that is why we have also reserved ourselves. I'll get back to that. Now I'm reading a little from these points. The overall aim of the government should be to increase the number of care places. The Government will therefore develop a national plan for how to address the lack of care places. We thought that was great. The committee's proposal paragraph 2: a.k.a. The government will review the issue of coordination of care queues. Unnecessary administration should be avoided, and easy accessible information for patients and their relatives should be given priority in order to make use of available capacity in healthcare. Good! The Committee's proposal, paragraph 4:中 The Government shall instruct the National Council of Health Care Competences to develop a plan of measures to dimension the number of training places to the need for staff. Particular attention should be paid to the need for specialist nurses, biomedical analysts, X-ray nurses and general medical specialists. Very good! The committee's proposal paragraph 6:中 The government will review the issue of health and safety at work in the healthcare sector. An appropriate authority should be given the task of carrying out a monitoring of health and safety at work. The government should then take action. Good! The committee's proposal paragraph 7:中 The government shall review the issue of strengthening occupational health care with a view to preventing and remedying physical and mental ill health. Good! It sounds like I agree with everything, but I'll get to what we don't agree with soon. It's like the essence of this. The Committee's proposal paragraph 8:中 The Government shall return to the Riksdag with letters containing reports on how the work is carried out in implementing the above measures. Good! That's where we totally matched. But then there were questions where we didn't match. It was, not surprising, about private health care. And I think we could spend one day on freedom of choice. What is choice? Whose choice are we talking about, business or patients? I therefore do not agree with the committee's proposal for a declaration to the government regarding the right of the patient to seek open and closed specialist care throughout the country. We have looked at this a little, and in our opinion there is an obvious risk of increased inequality with the proposal. The care to which a person is entitled must be located where he or she lives, in the region or in his or her own country. In this context, it should also be mentioned that different people have different conditions for finding the right place in healthcare. Nor do I agree with the committee's proposal for a notice to the government on paragraph 5 on more opportunities for health workers to work for different principals and to improve the possibilities for private health care providers to use available surgical and treatment capacities in hospitals and other health institutions. This may sound like hopsy, but I don't think it will in the end. In my opinion, this type of combined services will not increase the viability of public health care, and that is where it is failing. When the crisis struck, the regions refused to require private actors to contribute staff to public emergency care, which is likely to have contributed to a further increase in the number of care queues. I also believe that private profit-making actors should not be given the opportunity to make new break-ins in publicly funded healthcare and welfare. This, of course, we believe as the left-wing party because we want to regulate the private health market. The increasing power of private operators goes against equal care; you can see that. The last time we had a health analysis, we talked about the private net doctors. Do they provide more equal care? No, they don't. You don't sit in Hälsingland's interior and call the net doctors. You live on Fleming Street. I'm sorry to rumble, but I think you should listen a little to the authorities that produce various investigations and so on and don't go on and say that this is great and will be fantastic. It will not be, because it affects equality. I'm surprised that the right hand side here still has these solutions – net doctors, private carers – although you can see that the difference in health is increasing. What are we going to do? I think we should go on the needs. I think we should go on the team we have today – the sickest first. That would be obvious, wouldn't it? We believe that freedom of establishment benefits companies and not those patients who need care most. As I have said, I am extremely surprised by your constant positions on never ever regulating, for example, the online doctors. I therefore propose rejecting this and highlighting our own fine reservation, number 2.
i-RV7SL8ku2cPsUhNHL6ykau	Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to think a little loudly in this House when we are debating health issues. I wish I had many of the answers, but I think I have the most questions to ask. I was going to begin by paying tribute to a person who has influenced our way of ruling Sweden as no one else. I am of course thinking of Axel Oxenstierna, who created the division of counties we have today. That's 400 years ago. A lot has happened since then. Today, for example, we are dealing with more issues that run horizontally and do not take into account our county borders at all. Regional development responsibility has largely moved from the state level to the regional level. I myself regret that we did not manage to agree on larger regions. Why am I talking about larger regions here? Well, one of the ideas with larger regions was to create organisations that were better equipped to meet the challenges of the future and the need for investment in health care. It is about the increased healthcare needs we see, as well as the need for increased specialisation, renovation of premises and digitalisation, to name a few examples. Of course, it is difficult for me to lead in evidence that if we had larger regions we would not have had this kind of debate today, but perhaps we would have discussed something else. However, I am firmly convinced that a region's enlargement could have provided better conditions for increased development than today's systems with different sizes and different population bases. Today, indeed, we have our six health care regions, which play a major role in working together on common resources in health care. And perhaps the longer they can develop into larger regions, as the proposals were from the Division Committee. But sometimes I wonder if we dare to make major changes. What is really to be done to make changes, big and small, really happen? And are we willing to learn from each other? For example, when I look at the development of close care, which aims at a person-centred, coherent and preventive approach, I can conclude in an evaluation by the Swedish Agency for Health and Welfare Analysis that the Government has allocated 15.5 billion in the form of incentive grants to regions and municipalities. The Authority also notes that there are few indications that the conversion so far has led to the achievement of targets. ..................................................... Another example, which is close to my heart, is the law of patients. The same authority stated in 2017:中 The result is gloomy. The law has not reached its goal. ..................................................... These are two examples that should not be seen as contributions to the debate on the leadership and governance of different governments, but rather as examples of major reforms with very great support, even across party boundaries, which nevertheless have not really had the impact that was intended. I wonder why that is. Are we asking ourselves why? 中 enough times to really get into the heart of the matter? What are the similarities and differences between these reforms? I think there are more examples that could be taken up, but I have chosen these two. A third example I would like to look at is the preventive work. This means a profit for the individual, health care and society, yet a very small proportion of healthcare resources go to preventive measures. Should we work more with prevention, it would mean that individuals in our society would not suffer from diseases that can actually be avoided. Why do we really do this? More questions would also need to be asked about the working environment and health conditions. A large part of the shortcomings in the working environment and perhaps in previous examples may be a lack of time. You just don't have time to focus on change and what's going to happen to make it a change, because there's so much to do all the time. Sometimes I think maybe we should let ourselves do one thing at a time. Should I choose one of these things myself, I would probably choose skills, to get more people in health care and also more people with the right skills. Here I would like to highlight the National Skills Council, which I believe is on the way to something very exciting. It has the role of spider in the net and interacts with many actors. But I am also absolutely convinced that if the Skills Council is to meet its mandate and also the additional tasks that will result from what we are debating today, more resources are needed. More resources are also needed to support the skills councils in our six healthcare regions. Finally, I think some of the answers may have to do with us working to change too many parts of the system at the same time. Let's turn a little here and a little bit there. But in health care, the changes tend to do well, and you are quite tired of change. Many changes can also affect the working environment. The introduction of new working methods can stress both employees and managers. In addition, research and experience show that it can be difficult to change people's behaviour. Maybe we've forgotten about the human being in the system. Perhaps we must dare to prioritise between the changes? No matter how well-pleased the changes and reforms are, and however much the needs may be, I believe that at the moment in our health care, we need to create a sense of calm, peace and confidence in the future. I wish we would have more focus on the human being and not on everything that is in our systems. With this, Madam President, I would like to endorse our reservation.
i-HptdAXvTpMB9WeiDqNP16N	Madam President, I would like The Health Care Association and the Medical Association write in a debate article that a crisis commission is required for healthcare. They write like this on 14 January this year: The pandemic just keeps going and going. The warning signs are many and clear. Right now, at least 171 000 Swedes are waiting for surgery. In several of the country's emergency departments there are shortcomings in the work environment; the deficiencies are serious that emergency measures are required to carry out the activity. ..................................................... What these two associations write is supported by several other professional representatives. These are not individual problems, but a national problem, which must be dealt with differently than just in its own region. We Christian Democrats believe that this is a national problem that requires action – action by both the state and the regions. That is why we joined forces with the Moderates, the Center Party and the Liberals and wrote a draft committee initiative. That proposal was worked through by the committee, and it gained a majority behind it. That is why we are here today calling on the government to act. Madam President, I would like The committee notes that health care is in crisis. This is due to the pandemic, and it is due to the deficiencies that existed before the pandemic. The staff of the health care team quickly changed when the pandemic was a fact and made great efforts to cope with covid care. Of course, it required that those operations that could stand without danger of life be postponed. The need for this to happen was necessary, but it still puts a great deal of strain on those who have to wait even longer for care. The growth of queues also means an ethical stress for healthcare workers. But the problem of care queues is nothing new. For a long time, we have had illegal long-term care queues. When the government investigator Gunilla Gunnarsson visited the committee the other week, she was able to show that we have never actually been able to live up to the health guarantee, not a single year since it was introduced. This is therefore not just a question of pandemics or corona queues. These are deficiencies that have existed for a long time and now need to be addressed. Madam President, I would like We have too few care places in Sweden. We are at the bottom when the proportion of care places is compared between the European countries. For a long time it has been understood as a measure of medical development how many care places you can remove. It has been thought about: We are more successful if we can reduce the number of care places. But that's not the case. It goes without saying that when drug therapy was able to replace hospitalisation in certain diseases, it is a success. The fact that more day surgery can be carried out is excellent, as is the fact that more elderly people can receive good medical care in their own home. It is absolutely excellent that this development is taking place, and this should continue. But we need to have more care places to cope with good patient safety and a good working environment. The need to devote more and more time to prioritising and sorting patients instead of caring for patients is a symptom of a wrong development. We need to increase the number of care places. If we are to succeed in this, we need more staff, and if we are to succeed, we need a better working environment and better working conditions. Start with the working environment and working conditions, and make sure that healthcare professionals have more colleagues! Then we can take steps in the right direction. Madam President, I would like The Parliament stated in the autumn budget that there is a need for more care places and allocated special funds for this. What we are now making clear from the committee is that the government must draw up a national plan and keep its pace so that the whole country has more care places and that the working environment is improved. The regions and hospitals are best placed to decide which care places are to be expanded. In addition, it needs to be done in collaboration with surrounding municipalities so that it forms a whole that works on the site. How it should be done is therefore decided locally, but that it should be done, the Riksdag decides. In order to ensure that there is progress in the right direction, the Government must report to the Riksdag on three occasions during the year. Perhaps this is the most important part of this decision– not just that we agree that something should be done but that we follow up on that. By the government returning to the Riksdag, we can see transparently and openly how progress is progressing. Then we can also come up with measures during the year if it turns out that focus and money end up wrong. That is why the committee initiative is particularly important. It is a question of showing the ability to act when the health workers talk about a crisis. I support the committee's proposal.
i-5z8aWwWafXUazXnqpVJuvw	Madam President, I would like Just now, there is reason to note that thanks to the fantastic staff and care in Sweden we came out of the pandemic so well. However, despite the fact that we have seen medical quality as one of the world's leading countries, there is a lot in health care that is suffering from major problems. The pandemic has also exposed these shortcomings. Madam President, I would like This report is based on a committee initiative which was launched on 1 February by us Moderates together with the Center Party, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals. Several of the points contained in the initiative are also listed as priority areas in the budget prepared by the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats, which in the budget vote gained a majority, which means that it is now Sweden's state budget, which S governs from outside. We included in the committee initiative points for which we believe that the government must take stronger national responsibility, and we believe that urgent action must be taken to remedy this. Everyone, both state and region, must take a concerted approach. But we believe that the government must assume a national collective responsibility. A national plan must be drawn up, and it is the government that must act there. This was supported by a majority in the Committee on Social Affairs by the usual good climate of cooperation. The proposals in this committee initiative came after a discussion between these four parties, when we had had a joint meeting with the Health Association and the Medical Association and heard their wish for a crisis commission on health care, which was just mentioned from the pulpit. We saw the same problem, but we also have previous experience of how the government hides and withdraws on urgent issues in lengthy Commissions and has instead chosen to do so. We believe that this is a much better way of ensuring that the government assumes a national responsibility. Parliament is now forcing the government to act here and now. The Government shall report back to the Riksdag by letters on developments at three times this year. The first time is 31 May this year, which is not very far ahead. The Social Affairs Committee wants to see measures for improved care, where care queues and places of care are in particular focus. It is about increasing the number of care places, reviewing the question of coordination of care queues, reviewing the question of how patients can freely seek open and closed specialist care throughout the country, ensuring that training places are adapted to the need for staff, reviewing the issue of introducing more opportunities for staff to work for different principals, reviewing the issue of the working environment in healthcare and reviewing the issue of strengthening occupational health care. I will specifically come back to some of these parts. Madam President, I would like One of the parts that the pandemic put lightning on was the lack of care places. The Iva sites were scaled up through amazing efforts by healthcare professionals when needed for covids patients. However, the shortage of care places is high in large parts of the country now that elective care needs to be scaled up to deal with all the people in line. And there are a lot of people in line. It must not be forgotten that Sweden already before the pandemic had among Europe's longest care queues, with double queues from 2014 and triple queues to BUP. There must be coordination of these care queues. Already a great deal can be done to use spare capacity in healthcare. Special resources are set aside in the state budget adopted by the Riksdag, and they can contribute to the development of an appropriate function that easily shows patients where the available capacity is located. Administrative superstructures we want to avoid, and it should be simple and easily accessible information for patients and their relatives in order to give priority to the available capacity. There are also funds in this budget for travel expenses for patients who need to travel a longer distance. Yes, for a long time Sweden has fewer care places than the rest of Europe. We are even at the bottom when the number of care places is compared between countries. We know that measurements can be made in different ways. And we know that patients are more often treated with day surgery and with the help of more advanced drugs, which has meant that the number of necessary hospital deposits has been gradually reduced. Similarly, we would like to point out the digitalisation that has naturally led to more people being cared for at home. Local health care has been carefully expanded, but so far it is on a modest scale. More needs to be done. It's a very good development. These are positive parts. But that's not enough. Development needs to accelerate. This does not mean that the number of care places can be reduced to the extent that has taken place in recent years. Whatever the reasons for this, we now need a pool of forces in which all regions and national authorities are involved in increasing Sweden's total number of care places. I would like to highlight in particular the points relating to increased freedom of choice. For us Moderates, it is, of course, a matter of heart that you can increase the freedom of choice for patients so that they can also seek inpatient care, and not just outpatient care, freely throughout the country. It is also important for us that healthcare professionals can work in both public and private health care. We know that it will be important to make greater use of all the good efforts to overcome the queues of care, and there the private providers are extremely important. We also know that operating facilities in our public health facilities, hospitals, are often empty before 9 a.m. and after 3 p.m. There's a lot to do right now. We need to pool our forces instead of increasing conflicts. I am personally concerned when I listen to how not least the government party talks about the private carers. They are very important to us and will continue to be so. Otherwise, I have to comment on something that one of my colleagues said. I think it was the MP Member who was to a large extent turning for smaller regions. In view of the fact that Gotland, Halland and Kronoberg actually have the shortest care queues, I note that it may need to be reconsidered there. It is hardly the three regions that are the largest in Sweden. Moreover, as an accident, I can mention that all three of them are governed by Moderates. Finally, Madam President, it is important that the EUR 3.4 billion that the budget of M, KD and SD has now provided in addition over the next three years should be concentrated precisely on short-term care queues. Each patient should be able to feel confident that the care provided is patient-proof and accessible when needed. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-PtQ7BYdqCAYo7mN1y7DDEs	Madam President, I would like I'll start with a story from reality. Imagine sitting on a summer day with your doctor, as you have had diffuse discomfort symptoms for a long time! You have undergone a lot of examinations, and the doctor tells you: Unfortunately, we have concluded that you have had cancer of the pancreas. The only chance of cure is surgery, but unfortunately we can't operate on you until August because we don't have staff. What would you think and feel? How would you and your relatives feel this summer? Madam President, I would like Now August has arrived. The patient who received this diagnosis has ended up on the operating table, as promised. After more than an hour of surgery, the surgeon realizes that something is not right. After a rapid analysis of the tissue, it appears that the abdomen is full of small metastases. The only thing the doctor can do is sew the abdomen together, and any more surgery is no longer relevant. Unfortunately, this story is not unique. There are plenty of similar events around the country. It is sad that this can happen in a welfare society like Sweden. Madam President, I would like We usually hear that Sweden has an amazing cancer care, among the best in the world. That's true to some extent. We have an amazing staff and good medical results. But what does it do when waiting times are so long that it risks patient safety? All regions have goals for how quickly treatment should be initiated in case of suspected cancer, the so-called standardised health care processes. However, most regions are nowhere near achieving this maximum lead time. For the two most common cancers, breast cancer and prostate cancer, the result is frightening. Only 34% of breast cancer patients receive treatment within a medically reasonable time. The situation is even worse for those who suffer from prostate cancer. In this group, only 23% receive treatment within maximum lead time. If you look at all cancers, you do not even reach up to 40 percent who receive medical treatment within a reasonable period of time within the standardised healthcare processes. Long waiting times, however, are not news. You can't just refer to the pandemic as the cause, because the waiting times for treatment and surgery were long even before the pandemic. The pandemic has only worsened an already bad starting position. Madam President, I would like Sweden has 2.1 care places per 1 000 inhabitants, which is the lowest in Europe. At the same time, the population, in particular the proportion of elderly and chronically ill, is increasing. Lack of care places, overcrowding and relocation of patients is now a normal state in many parts of the country. This presents a danger and risks patient safety, but it also represents an unsustainable work situation for staff with consequences such as sick leave, burn-out and dismissal due to excessive workload. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, we can see that Swedish healthcare is in a deep crisis, and there will be a need for a battery of measures to reverse this negative trend. I am therefore pleased that we in the Committee on Social Affairs can now make a statement with a number of calls to the government, including more care places and coordination of care queues in the country, but also that patients should be able to seek open and closed specialist care throughout the country. In the long term, this can help to shorten waiting times. Free hospital selection is something that you have in Denmark, which has been a success factor there. Madam President, I would like Even more measures will be needed to break the negative spiral of Swedish healthcare. The legal position of patients must be significantly strengthened, because the legal position of Swedish patients is still weak compared to that of our Nordic neighbours. But perhaps the most important thing is to improve health care professionals' working conditions and working environment and that. We should remember, Madam President, that health care is one of the pillars of a welfare society. The chronically long care queues that we have in Sweden are a political failure that drains trust in society. The primary responsibility for this failure lies with the Social Democratic Government, which has had eight years to reverse developments without success. Care queues and waiting times have become longer years for years, and patients and health professionals are the ones who have paid the price. This isn't good enough. Here we need to put the right measures in the right place and urgently. It can be solved; this can be seen not least in our Nordic neighbours, who have previously had similar problems but who have managed to reverse the negative trend and now have no longer waiting times in healthcare. Madam President, I would like If they can do it, we can do it! I support the committee's proposal.
i-A7kBCAiarQmVs8PdZegrDE	Madam President, I would like In Swedish healthcare we have a number of structural problems. These are not acute problems, but are things that health care has been involved for a long time. I would like to point out some of them. One has been mentioned several times from here, and it is about the place of care. I will be honest and say that what concerns me is not that Sweden is low in tables on the number of care places per 100 000 inhabitants. In those statistics, there are some rather serious doubts, not least how to register elderly care and other things. I would not be concerned about the figure that exists if it were not to have medical consequences and if it were not to put patient safety at risk. Instead of talking about places of care, we should be talking about the consequences of a too small number of places of care. The consequences are very clear. Patients who are going into inpatient care remain in the emergency wards for far too long, which is a clear medical risk. Instead, patients who were to be admitted to a urology department end up in a lung ward, what they call homeless people. There is a significant medical risk of not being cared for by personnel who know the area. Another problem is overcrowding, which is also a significant medical risk. If we're going to get to grips with this, we're going to have to deal with several different parts. It is about ensuring that we get better functioning care for the elderly and that we can take care of those patients who are ready to discharge more effectively. There is also a need for more care places, Madam President. The third problem is known and has been raised here in the speaker's chair, and it is the lack of availability of long queues to arrive, to get the first medical assessment by a specialist doctor and then to get treatment. This also involves medical risks, but not least this is one of the reasons why the person who is born abroad, the person who is not educated and the person who is excluded is receiving much less care. If you are going to make Swedish healthcare more equitable and more equal, accessibility is an extremely important part. We also have major problems with skills shortages. We have a relatively large number of doctors per 100,000 inhabitants and also a relatively large number of nurses. But we do not have them in the right place, and above all they lack the right specialist skills. There is a major problem, and the pandemic has made it considerably worse. We were brought to the attention of the two major health trade unions, the Medical Association and the Health Association, who said that the situation is now urgent. Now you have to do something. That is the background to this committee initiative by the Center Party, the Christian Democrats, the Liberals and the Moderates. I am therefore very pleased that we are likely to get a majority in Parliament when we vote on this so that we can put pressure on the government. Madam President, I would like I must say that I am genuinely tired of the pie throwing out. The Government Party says that health care is the responsibility of the regions and that the Center Party governs 19 of 21 regions. Others try to put the whole responsibility on the government. This is a shared responsibility between, on the one hand, the State, which is responsible for legislation and supervision and, on the other hand, for ensuring that regions and municipalities have adequate financial resources, and, on the other hand, municipalities and regions. It is important to also mention the municipalities, because they have a fairly large health care responsibility in Sweden. So this is a shared responsibility. What, then, should the state do that the state does not? When it comes to the lack of care places, i.e. consequences in the form of overcrowding, homeless people and long waiting times in emergency hospitals, the state can do what is done, namely to provide financial resources and say that they should be used to increase the number of care places. It is important that we get a follow-up, but it is perhaps even more important to ensure that Ivo, the Inspection for Health Care, gets the resources and also the sharp tools to be able to supervise in the way that has now been done, for example, with regard to Uppsala University Hospital. There we have an incredibly sharp method on the part of the state, and that is where the state must assume its responsibilities. It's in the announcement. The second area is, of course, the long queues. There is far too little happening because the government does not want to implement the necessary structural changes. Here, as a previous speaker has pointed out, one could look at the example of Denmark and give the patient power. This could be done by making the reporting of waiting times and quality differences public and accessible to each individual patient. There are such proposals here, and the alliance parties have been pushing them for a long time. But there is genuine opposition. We noticed this not least when we heard the government investigator in committee the other day. The investigator said the information is for the regions, not primarily for the patients. In addition, patients would be given the right to choose from day one, even inpatient care. The major effect would not be that patients begin to seek care around the country. That would be a small effect. Instead, this would create pressure in the system vis-à-vis the regions to ensure that patients can receive care here and not have to travel to Kiruna or Ystad to receive care. The third area is that the state must exercise greater responsibility. It's about the supply of skills. Today, the state is responsible for dimensioning higher education, but specialist education is a responsibility of the regions. That's where the equation doesn't add up, and that's where the state has to step forward and take greater responsibility. In a situation where a region says that there is no shortage of a particular category and that therefore no training is needed, it is for the neighbouring region where there is a great need to use the training capacity available in, for example, Halland or Stockholm to cater for the country. There is a very clear state responsibility here, and here the state must step forward in a completely different way from what the government has done. Madam President, I would like I believe that the decision we are going to take later today on an announcement on these points where there are obvious weaknesses in Swedish healthcare will be a good step. This applies partly to the health care staff, that we listen to them, and partly to go towards a better and more efficient Swedish healthcare.
i-Ju8fFESxr2rEB1jWsGbGc1	Madam President, I would like To need fewer care places is amazing, i.e. not to have to spend a week in the hospital when you have given birth or to be able to go home even the same day even though you have a prosthesis. It's amazing. At the same time, there has been a difficult development optimism in Sweden for many years, along with a far too high staff turnover. This has meant that Sweden now has too few care places. We have been balancing margins for a long time. Eventually, there were no margins left. That's when a multi-year pandemic occurred. There, more care places and certainly more intensive care places had been of great help. Thankfully, health care professionals were able to switch operational resources to intensive care and life support. It was an extraordinary achievement, which came at a high price. The price must, of course, be lower at the next pandemic. For the next pandemic will, and then the starting point must not be the same as this time. In addition, a full-scale war is taking place in our neighbourhood, where we have promised to provide help. We have promised to receive Hercules planes with severely injured people, if necessary. It is not possible to switch from surgical resources to intensive care in order to fulfill that promise. That's how much we can be done with. Then we will need both surgery and intensive care. So we have to scale up. Over time, more and more parties have realised that Swedish preparedness needs to be strengthened immediately. Then there is a third reason why we have to scale up. Swedish preparedness is of course so much more than camouflaged people. In crisis and in war, just as in everyday life one, it is the ordinary health care we have to trust. We need to scale up. Much of this is, of course, about keeping the most knowledgeable people, hiring more people, making people feel comfortable, developing and wanting to stay in health care. This requires stronger working conditions and enhanced occupational health care. That is why Liberals believe that care placement efforts must continue for many years. Temporary bets are not good enough. You can't hire a single person with two-year funds. Although that is the responsibility of the regions, some say. No, I disagree. This is a national crisis. A national crisis must also be resolved nationally. It is about Swedish pandemic preparedness, about Swedish crisis and war preparedness, about Sweden's strength and ability to overcome difficulties as a country. There, the state and the regions must work together. It's as simple as that. I myself, Madam President, left my regional position of trust precisely because I was madly frustrated that in the region where I should be able to manage health care, I was completely tied up by the state. Investigation after investigation shows that Swedish health professionals are forced to devote themselves to government papers more than they can to patients. Now the state has backseat herb health care down into the ditch. Then it is my view that when you have done it with your double administration, bureaucracy, temporary money, reporting requirements and huge amounts of top administrators, the state will have to take its responsibility and help us get back on the road. It's no harder than that. That is what we are saying with this message. On behalf of the Liberals today, I support the proposal for a committee initiative, and I support the committee's proposal on this point. Sweden should be strong in everyday life and in crisis, and Sweden should be strong when other countries or at worst we ourselves suffer from war. It requires really good working conditions in health care, and it requires enough care places to avoid having to scale up when you are already standing in the middle of the fire.
i-2HLFJqfa55kw4imvPXMtFs	Madam President, I would like Minority legislation, which includes Sweden's five recognised minority groups, Jews, Sami – which have a special position as an indigenous population – Finns, Roma and Meänkieli-speaking, was landed in 2009 by the then alliance government, and the law has evolved over time. The Constitutional Committee's report 32, which is now under debate, contains very good ideas from various parties that can contribute to this further development. The Moderates have motions for the report to highlight, among other things, the treatment of Roma and travellers during the 20th century. There is a clear gender dimension in the work on Roma inclusion. It shall be consultation, dialogue, participation and influence for national minorities with a focus on the preservation of the Sami language and culture. The Moderates also underline the importance of the responsibilities of municipalities in the administrative areas. It is a very important piece of work, but when reports show that not all municipalities live up to their commitments, we propose measures for this. In the report, we Moderates support all our reservations, but for time-winning, I only ask for reservation number 1. Madam President, I would like The Sami and County Administrative Board in Stockholm County's latest report National minorities and minority languages – The development of minority policy in 2020 unfortunately shows a negative development. The report clearly shows that national minorities are experiencing increased discrimination and vulnerability. Over the years, a negative attitude towards national minorities has become more common. Young people in particular feel that the pandemic has increased their concerns about being discriminated against in the labour market or at school. At the same time, the report shows that the work of municipalities and regions on discrimination issues involving national minorities has declined since 2019, both within and outside the administrative areas. There are two movements in social development that should really change places. Madam President, I would like Let me dwell for a moment on the anti-Semitism or Jew hatred. The Moderates have been exercising for many years about the importance of the government vigorously counteracting all manifestations of anti-Semitism to make it clear that our country does not accept that violence or insulting treatment is directed against Jews or other population groups in our society and to stand up clearly against anti-Semitism and other forms of extremism. In the last few years, things have happened. A national plan against racism has been presented with increased support and in-depth dialogue with civil society and a more active judiciary. An international forum for the remembrance of the Holocaust has been implemented. The Holocaust Museum in Malmö is inaugurated this summer. Increased resources for education and research have been added to the Swedish National Agency for Education and Research. Security contributions to religious communities have been strengthened, and the M-KD-SD budget from December adds another SEK 10 million to this work. All this is good, but is that enough? Antisemitism goes back a long way. Its rotten roots reach deep and wide, high and low in society. Are we doing enough to counteract anti-Semitism with all these measures? Do we reach the citizens from expensive addresses to village roads? From academies to workshops? From young to old? I ask the questions openly, and I ask them to myself. Madam President, I would like Let me exemplify my thoughts. Some time ago, I was on a bus on my way to visit one of the country's major cities. The thoughts hovered around preparations for the visit but suddenly sharpened. The reason was a choice of words. One of me shot at me that totally caught me off guard and sent cold grooves along my spine. Surfaced by a couple of young teenage girls on the chair row in front of me, not only once but several, as an epithet of another girl they didn't seem to like very much. I felt like I was getting all fucked up. It was so unexpected. Unobtrusive. Fat. Historyless. What kind of protected life does she live in, some may think now. Welcome to reality and to social media flows filled with hate language! Discover that this is everyday life, where a Jew's ass is constantly being used! Well, I and all of us in this House are fully aware of this language. We are all fully aware of the hatred and threats that occur, both physically and digitally, and that are increasing in our society – a development in the completely wrong direction. Awareness is important, but what we all do actively is all the more important. Madam President, I would like For me as a child of the generation that both experienced and was included in the Jewish deportations during World War II, all this feels very close, both emotionally and in time. In the summer of 1944, when the war had turned and the Nazis became increasingly desperate, more than 400,000 Jewish Hungarians were pushed into cattle cars and sent off to what for most came to be the eternal end station — the extermination camps. As Legacy Secretary at the Swedish Embassy in Budapest worked at this time Raoul Wallenberg. He could not silently watch as the Holocaust minions beat their claws in all these innocent people and swept them away. Wallenberg's diligent work in issuing Swedish protection passports saved thousands of Hungarian Jews from being placed on death trains. That this feels close to me is because of the 15-year-old who lived in Budapest at the same time and witnessed with his own eyes the abductions of friends and families he knew well. He whose face darkened, whose eyes were filled with the deepest pain and preferably did not want to talk about it all when his daughter asked questions about this time and the Jewish persecutions. My father. So I was surprised that the girls in front of me on the bus, who looked like any other teenage girls, used an expression that I would never put in my mouth. Madam President, I would like It made me fully appreciate how much work we all have to do. In everyday life. Every day. Raoul Wallenberg's compassion, commitment, civil courage and deed must be kept high and passed on to subsequent generations. That story must never be silenced. Tolerance, openness and freedom are the mainstays of a society. Consciousness is important. What we all do actively is all the more important.
i-JNsWLFCnT2McJ5xo8HKpdn	Madam President, I would like Initially, I request the approval of reservation 17. The Act on National Minorities applies throughout Sweden and describes the rights that minorities have both throughout the country and in the special administrative areas that exist for Sami, Meänkieli and Finnish. In the ideological basis of the Swedish Democrats there is a general principle of assimilation where the key to national cohesion is community and cohesion. However, the special legal status of national minorities and the historical tradition to be taken into account make them exceptions to assimilation. The right to their national minority languages is an essential part of the prerequisites for maintaining and managing their cultural identity. However, in those areas of the country that do not have management tasks, language options are difficult to access in the welfare sector. This also applies to those languages which do not have administrative areas at all. For this reason, we in the Swedish Democrats want to investigate the possibilities of making minority languages available in an alternative way in the areas of welfare. Madam President, I would like The languages of national minorities have been oppressed, neglected and abandoned throughout the world throughout history. The Social Democratic Government legislated during the 20th century on, among other things, a ban on speaking native languages other than Swedish. In practice, for example, it meant that Sami children were not allowed to speak Sami at school, even outside of class. Of course, this greatly contributed to a decrease in the number of Sami languages and the fact that the new generation did not have the opportunity to learn the language properly because it did not go through the whole teaching. However, languages can regain power in new generations where there is interest in cultural heritage and roots. This is why the Swedish Democrats want to strengthen the conditions for the Southern Sami cultural centre in Östersund and establish a joint Sami language centre with Finland and Norway. Meänkieli has been an official national minority language in Sweden since 1999. In spite of this, the language is endangered like many other minority languages worldwide, including the five Sami languages. Recently a report was released showing that, despite efforts, the Sami languages are still classified as being threatened by UNESCO. The lack of teaching materials is an example of factors that have a negative impact on the preservation of languages. The situation of national minority languages has also been very negatively affected by the pandemic. Restrictions have led to closed borders between the Nordic countries, which of course affects social contacts within families who live in Sweden and Norway, for example. In turn, this means, among other things, that the exchange of knowledge of language skills is limited as a result of the fact that the older generation has limited access to children and grandchildren. The older generation often masters the Sami languages to a greater extent and is often a prerequisite for young generations to have the opportunity to acquire linguistic knowledge, especially in cases where education in the national minority languages at school is limited. Both the cultures of national minorities and Swedish culture together form Sweden's collective cultural foundation, which the Swedish democrats defend. Our country's cultural heritage and history are two important pillars of society's identity, and identity is the guiding principle of a cohesive country.
i-XXTdgdfbUZTMyvH9u8EemE	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 14 in paragraph 7. No person in Sweden should be discriminated against or exposed as a result of their origin. All people living in our country should have the same opportunities for influence and participation in society. Each of us has the right to his or her language and cultural identity. This is at the heart of the minority policy adopted by Parliament. For the past 20 years, we in Sweden have a comprehensive policy to strengthen our national minorities and to support our national minority languages. The aim of this policy is to protect these minorities and strengthen their potential for influence. At the same time, we shall ensure that our historical minority languages can be kept alive. While work on minority issues has moved forward over the last 20 years, there is still a great deal to be done to achieve the objectives that we have jointly adopted. A report that came in the other year, Higher gear in minority policy, identified several shortcomings, such as unclear mandates and weak mandates for the authorities responsible for monitoring the work on minority rights and shortcomings in protecting minority languages as living languages. We in the Center Party welcome the investigation and its conclusions, but what we are asking above all is that the ambitions set up long ago are actually respected in practice. This requires systematic work that takes place with both long-term and perseverance. Madam President, I would like The responsibility for monitoring how Sweden's minority policy is implemented in the country's municipalities lies with the County Administrative Board in Stockholm together with Sametinget. These authorities must train and inform on minority issues and provide the support that municipalities and other authorities need. Of course, it is important that minority policy is coordinated, but in order for it to have an impact in practice, it is crucial to involve civil society. Without the idea-based organisations that bring together minorities and the work that these associations do, there is a risk that there will be little of a workshop. Without, for example, the work of the Swedish Tornedalings Riksförbund, the minority language meänkieli would hardly have the place it has in Sweden today. The Center Party therefore believes that these organisations should be given a crucial role in caring for, protecting and developing national minorities. People who speak Sami, Finnish or meänkieli and live in an administrative area have the right to have contact with authorities in a minority language. They also have the right of access to care for the elderly in their minority languages and to meet staff there who master the language. However, a survey carried out by the National Board of Health and Welfare a few years ago unfortunately shows that there are large differences between the different administrative municipalities in terms of how they live up to their mission. The survey also shows that in municipalities there is a lack of knowledge about the language and culture of minorities. This leads to difficulties in meeting the requirements for care based on the individual's needs. Here, the Center Party wishes the government to review how it can be ensured that people with a mother tongue other than Swedish can receive person-centred care in accordance with the national guidelines regardless of where in the country they live. Madam President, I would like For my part, I cannot speak any of the five minority languages that we have recognised in Sweden, i.e. Sami, Meänkieli, Finnish, Yiddish and Romani. Unfortunately, I am also unable to express a sentence in the river valley, as my centre-party colleague Peter Helander did in a debate in this House last year. He was then told by the President that we speak Swedish in this House. This point was a paradox, because the river valley is denied the status of minority language and is instead regarded as a dialect. It is thus considered to be a variant of the Swedish language, and dialects are, of course, not wrong to use in debates in this House. A number of language experts who have examined the river valley have found that its structure makes it a language of its own. The elf valley, which has its roots in the Old Norse in the 1300s, stands out, among other things, through an older casus system and by preserving various sounds in the pronunciation, including nasal vowels. There are similarities between the situation of the river valley and the situation of other small and endangered languages in the world. Ensuring a group's linguistic rights is a fundamental human right enshrined in the UN Convention on Human Rights. Today, children whose mother tongue is a river valley have no right to education either in or in the river valley. Älvdalskan, which is only spoken in Sweden, is also an important part of Swedish cultural heritage. The Center Party believes that it would be a historical mistake if the river valley – Sweden's oldest preserved language – were to die out. This is why the Center Party wants the government to investigate the possibility of recognising the river valley as a minority or country language in Sweden.
i-91qDiY89Y3t8h2y3StXg8Z	Madam President, I would like I want to start by doing something a little unusual for me. I would like to support both reservation 5 and reservation 6. This was also a historically important decision that was made yesterday, just as Minister of Economic Affairs Karl-Petter-Petter Thorwaldsson said. In my opinion, it was a historically bad decision. The government's decision to say yes to a mine in Kallak, or Gállok, is tone-deaf, provocative and tactless. It's a mockery. I would therefore like to be very clear about what is the position of the Left Party. Madam President, I would like We in the Left Party are against a mine in Kallak. For us, Sami rights and the status of indigenous peoples are not just a little vague in theory that one can talk about when it suits and as long as it does not interfere with any other interest. For us, Sami rights are real and real. This means that other interests sometimes should and must stand back for the Sami interests. In this case, the mining industry should have had to stand down. Frankly, I am ashamed on behalf of the government and the Social Democrats. You are on the wrong side of history on this issue – once again. It is particularly sad that this message comes less than a month after the order of consultation on matters concerning the Sami people has begun to apply. But I guess that's what happens when you love mines above everything else. Then one is apparently unable to take in the recurring criticism that Sweden receives from the UN in terms of satisfying Sami rights. Then you ignore international law. Then the Supreme Court's precedent in the Girjas judgment is ignored. Barely two months ago, we stood in this House debating the order of consultation. I was then concerned that it was in danger of being another wrong to the Sami people committed by the state. I note that I no longer have to worry – the government's decision yesterday speaks clearly. They choose to go against the Sami villages, Sametinget, the County Administrative Board, Unesco, UN experts, Amnesty, the Swedish Church and environmental organisations. The list is quite long. This is a mine where iron ore is intended to be mined, which is not even a deficiency metal. Nor is it genuine iron ore, since it needs to be an iron oxide content of more than 30 percent for it to be classified as iron ore. This does not meet the area of Kallak. It is thus so-called iron ore with less quality than the one that is mined in Kiruna, for example. In addition, the mine is expected to have a life span as short as 15 to 25 years. It is an extremely short time to intervene irrevocably in nature and the environment, especially when it is at risk of adversely affecting the Laponia World Heritage Site. Above all, however, it will seriously threaten reindeer husbandry in the area, which is a national interest. The Left Party is not against all mines, and several minerals are needed in the climate transition, but that does not mean that mines can be built anywhere. It must be done with wisdom and thought, something that the government obviously lacks. Madam President, I would like My guess is that it has now been made clear what the Left Party's position is about a possible mine in Kallak and what values we base ourselves on when it comes to the rights of the Sami people. We have repeatedly been exercising on the ratification of the ILO 169, the Convention on the Rights of the Indigenous Peoples. But regardless of this, Sweden recognised the Sami as indigenous as early as 1977. This brings with it specific rights, including in terms of self-determination and influence. This is particularly important in view of the fact that state Sami policy is an extremely dark history. The Sami have suffered countless wrongs and violations, historically but also to date – as late as yesterday and certainly today. The Left Party has put forward many proposals to strengthen the position of the indigenous peoples of the Sami and national minorities. In our motion on Sami rights, we have many suggestions. Among other things, we believe that the roles of the Sami Parliament as a parliament and authority should be separated, that hate crimes against Sami should be prioritised higher, that there should be clearer directives on the repatriation of Sami remains and sacred objects, that there should be a centre of knowledge for Sami health and that there should be much more emphasis on the Sami languages, which have been under threat for a long time. There's a lot to do, and the clock is ticking. Madam President, I would like I was a pretty good student at school. Nevertheless, in recent years I have seen that I have big blind spots in my education, especially in relation to indigenous and minority issues. As an adult, I have tried to learn more, understand and correct these blind spots, but it is only to be realized that I will never succeed in that. So far, I have talked mainly about Sami rights, but it is clear that many measures are needed to strengthen the influence of all national minorities in Sweden. In particular, the question of preserving and developing the languages of national minorities is urgent. Another national minority I would particularly like to highlight in today's debate is Roma and Travellers. They were granted national minority status at the turn of the millennium. Even when it comes to the state's treatment of Roma and travellers, there is a dark story. It has expressed itself both in racial ideology and in our authorities systematically registered and discriminated against Roma and travellers historically and in the near future. It was not out of a vacuum that Skåne police's rom register arose. From newborn to deceased, they were registered. Over a thousand of those registered were children, for example 52 two-year-olds. In Sweden, Roma and travellers have for a long time been stigmatised and pointed out as less talented, as antisocial, as criminals and as a little less worth than the rest of us. Throughout the 20th century, the state and municipalities subjected them to an extensive survey. It has been considered acceptable for officials to describe families in derogatory terms. These surveys have built and confirmed negative perceptions. The surveys have played a major role in the emergence of prejudice and contributed to racism and discrimination. The state has conditional help with sterilization requirements. Local authorities have been called upon to take care of Roma children for placement in orphanages or foster families. The Roma have been denied access to the welfare system and denied the rights of other residents. I am going to spend some of my speaking time, which I apologise for. The government made its decision yesterday. Madam President, I would like There is rightly a huge confidence gap between the Roma and the majority society. The police's roe registers, the actions of the authorities and surveys have created a strong distrust of society and authorities. The prejudice against Roma and travellers persists and manifests itself through discrimination, racism and violations on a daily basis. There is a lack of collective cultural institutions for this group. We know that anti-Ziganism is widespread throughout Europe. Work on Roma inclusion is needed, and it needs to be carried out across the EU. In 2012, the Government decided on a strategy for Roma inclusion. The study on monitoring minority policy identified the need for more resources if the Roma inclusion strategy is to be implemented seriously. The 2017 follow-up to the strategy showed that nearly 20 municipalities were working on the strategy. Instead of being a long-term work with continuity, it was carried out in project form and in the short term. Despite the Government's previous efforts, racism and discrimination against Roma and travellers continue. It is clear that more resources are needed if we seriously want the Roma inclusion strategy to be implemented. The Left Party, like the Commission against Anti-Gypsyism, believes that a national centre for Roma issues should be set up. It could initiate, promote and support Roma empowerment and influence and contribute to the further development of Roma civil society. We believe that the White Paper on the abuse and abuse of the Roma is not enough. It should be complemented by a Commission of Truth that can provide Roma and travelling redress and hopefully restore confidence in the authorities. A commission of truth does not solve everything, but could have it put together and describe the abuses and wrongs that have taken place and let the victims tell their story. It could also form the basis for a public apology and propose measures to make the history of Roma and travellers visible in Sweden. We also have suggestions to document more settlements, so that the history of Roma and travellers is highlighted and made visible within the Swedish cultural heritage as an important part of our history. Madam President, I would like Today, processes are already under way with Truth and Reconciliation Commissions in the case of Sami and tornadoes. They do not solve everything, but if they are done right they can be a start to a reconciliation process. This applies, of course, only if there are good conditions for carrying out the process. Madam President, I would like Finally, I had intended to highlight the river valley, which the previous speaker mentioned. But I skip it, because I've pulled over a little bit. We agree with what Malin Björk said. In fact, I was also at Question Time. It was an eye and ear opener. The rights of minorities and indigenous peoples are very important to us in the Left Party. Their story is also our story. We must all be able to live together with respect for each other's experiences and cultures. That is why these issues are so urgent for us to pursue in Parliament.
i-CkKYaaNrGEZXBygkZMtfvK	Madam President, I would like I am in favour of reservation 12 under paragraph 6, which deals with the river valley. I'll get back to it. In this report, there is much that could be raised, such as the motions we have and the position of the KU. These minorities are affected by five minority languages. I would like to highlight anti-Semitism and anti-Ziganism and the texts in which the KU is united. This is not controversial, but it can be a good basis. This is what we support. In the spring of 2018, the KU dealt with motion requests about the work against anti-Semitism. In its position, the committee stressed the importance of continuing efforts to disseminate knowledge of anti-Semitism and the specific notions that are the industry of anti-Semitism and the persecution of Jews throughout history and up to our day. Furthermore, the KU noted that important efforts have been made to increase the security of Jewish synagogues and other institutions, as well as Jewish events and meeting places, and stressed the importance of evaluating these efforts and of continuously monitoring the security situation. The KU also pointed out that the work against anti-Semitism and for Jewish security needs to be put into continuous dialogue with Jewish civil society and its various representatives, and that this dialogue needs to be conducted in a way that captures different aspects and takes into account that the situation of anti-Semitism and threat images varies in different parts of society. In today's position, the KU stresses the importance of continuing efforts to spread knowledge about anti-Semitism and the particular notions that are the industry of anti-Semitism and the persecution of Jews throughout history and up to our day. I would also like to highlight anti-Ziganism and the vileness of special treatment and discrimination against the Roma. In response to motions, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated that anti-Ziganism and Roma inclusion measures are of great importance, and we noted the presentation in the budget proposal for the ongoing work. The committee also noted that the Government intended to carry out work to meet Parliament's announcements in this area and also the ongoing work to investigate how a national centre for Roma issues could be set up, which is now under way. Today, in its position, the committee emphasises that the government has decided to set up a committee in the form of a Commission of Truth, which will, among other things, identify and examine the policies that have been pursued towards the Roma in a historical perspective and make proposals for measures that contribute to redress and promote reconciliation. So to the river valley, which several speakers have mentioned. Älvdalska has been treated as a dialect, but the American language organisation SIL International took a position in 2016 on the linguistic classification of the river valley. SIL International is a non-profit organization with a presence in some eighty countries working for sustainable linguistic development, mainly through research, translation and education. The organisation decided on 27 May 2016 to classify the river valley as a distinct language rather than as a dialect of Swedish. The decision refers, among other things, to the number of available publications in the river valley and the number of scientific studies of the river valley. The decision means that the river valley is assigned its own language code according to the international standard ISO 639. The Institute for Languages and People's Memories has the Government's mission, on a scientific basis, to increase, liven up and spread knowledge of languages, dialects, folk memories, names and other intangible cultural heritage in Sweden. During the preparation of a previous motion report, the Agency submitted a report on the status of the River Valley's language policy to the committee. In reservation 12 under item 6, the Christian Democrats point out that the Council of Ministers' Committee of Experts in a report on 26 November 2020 following a visit to Älvdalen and a meeting with representatives of the river valley and the municipality of Älvdalen noted that the work done by organisations supporting the river valley and the money received from various authorities has in practice made the river valley part of the Swedish cultural heritage and a recognised language. The Committee of Experts highlights, among other things, the fact that there is much of the linguistic literature needed to distinguish a dialect from a language. The language is also formally and practically supported by Älvdalen municipality. Against this background, the Committee of Experts concludes that the river valley meets the criteria for a minority language and calls on the Swedish Government to include reporting of river valleys in the forthcoming periodic report on minority languages to the Council of Ministers under the European Charter for Regional and Minority Languages. Against this background, for example, the river valley should be recognised as a minority or sub-national language in Sweden under the Treaty of the Council of Europe, and the government should report on the measures taken to protect the survival of the language.
i-UiTkh8sV37MRPge2v12272	Madam President, I would like Who determines your identity? It must always be the individual who decides his or her belongings. Minority policy should facilitate and create opportunities for individuals to decide for themselves. It is through people's choices that languages are kept alive and passed on to the next generation, and it is people themselves who preserve, alter and renew the cultural traditions of minorities. It is also about being able to identify as both, not either or. It is not a question of being forced to choose between being Sami or Swedish, Swedish, Swedish or Swedish, Roma or Swedish, Jewish or Swedish, toredaling or Swedish. It's about being able to choose both. Sami and Finnish have been spoken in Sweden for as long as Swedish. The Roma and Jewish groups have been here for hundreds of years. But until today, national minorities have often been made invisible. Minority policy should be about strengthening the individual's right to use his or her language and be involved in his or her culture. Sami, Swedish finns, tornoes, Roma and Jews have been developing their culture on Swedish soil for a very long time. For minority languages to be passed on to the next generation, access to minority language education is needed. An important part of minority policy is the administrative areas of Sami, Finnish and Meänkieli. In these areas, the individual has a greater right of access to the language through preschool and care for the elderly in his or her minority language. Madam President, I would like Liberal ministers have worked in a government position to ensure that the administrative areas are located in large parts of Sweden. Liberal ministers have worked to strengthen the rights of national minorities, and liberal ministers took the initiative to amend legislation which, among other things, restricted the right to language teaching for children who did not have the language alive at home. I will also mention Roma inclusion. Under the leadership of Minister Erik Ullenhag, an initiative was taken in 2012 for a comprehensive strategy for Roma inclusion. Rome's vulnerability must be constantly highlighted, not only in Sweden but also in Europe. This is true even in these times, and not only historically, but also here and now. It is important that prejudice and oppression against the Roma are vigorously combated. In 2014, a White Paper was presented to highlight the abuses of the general Roma throughout the 20th century, and it is important that conclusions are taken into account. Madam President, I would like There is no administrative area for romani chib as minority languages. The long-term strategy for Roma inclusion has education and social care as two specifically identified areas of activity. Therefore, the Liberals believe that the government should unbiasedly investigate the pros and cons of introducing a Romani Chib administrative area according to the same model as for Sami, Finnish and Meänkieli. Efforts are needed, including for the management of culture. Managing culture provides opportunities for managing languages. For example, I have been very happy to see that the calendar of Christmas has been able to listen to in the various Roma languages as well. It has enriched us all and our culture. Madam President, I would like It matters how the majority society views minority rights. It matters how individuals act. You smooth over and down when the reaction wasn't expected and say it was just a joke. Because you have to make fun of national minorities or a certain national minority where there are historical jokes about knives and booze. You have to joke at the expense of others. We all bear a responsibility not to spread prejudice or reduce others. To combat prejudice, more than political decisions and pamphlets are needed. We need to live as we learn. It is important to combat anti-Semitism, anti-Ziganism and prejudice against all minorities. We as individuals bear a responsibility not to spread prejudice, even in everyday life. We have heard earlier about Raoul Wallenberg's great deed, but I would also like to highlight Martin Luther King, who already in 1963 gave a brand talk, I have a dream, about people's equal value. He hoped that his children would be judged by their inner character. That is an important message to this day. Madam President, I would like Minority policy should facilitate and create opportunities for individuals. It's about people's equal value. The equal value of men is a question of freedom, for all of us. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, I would ask for the benefit of time to be granted only to reservation 4, but I support all our reservations.
i-B9V11YmpqkK1Fx9oD3Xvb6	Madam President, I would like It is not exactly the home arena for me to come to a debate that belongs to the Constitutional Committee and that deals with minority issues, but there is, in fact, a connection with my origins and my home areas that I believe it is important that you, my colleagues in Parliament, but also the government and those who listen know about. I can start by telling you that when I started school I could not a word of Swedish, but it was meänkieli that I had learned at home. Fortunately, everything had changed when I started school. It was good teachers, and it was no problem. I have no bad memories of my schooling, but I will return to other signals that have been given. There is work going on in a committee in the form of a Truth and Reconciliation Commission to investigate the violations and abuse of tornadoes, kväner and lantalaiset. It will investigate the assimilation policy carried out by the Swedish state during the 1800s and early 1900s, and it will work to make historical experiences visible. The aim is to help provide collective redress for minorities, promote reconciliation and prevent something similar from happening in the future. My father was born in 1923 and when he started school in the early 1930s he knew no Swedish. Students were not allowed to speak meänkieli or Finnish, and it is easy to understand that they became silent. It is no wonder that those of his generation who came from these families had little chance of further reading. If you don't get to speak the language you can and if you get to taste the whip when you speak that language, you become a silent student. I can tell you that. I am concerned about the signals I receive from people who are involved in the reconciliation process in various ways with regard to tornadoes and meänkieli-speakers. One of the most serious signals I get is like this: Now the state is going to bury the truth again with us old men who still remember and can render the truth. It is not at all good to hear this about a Commission that is really out at the eleventh hour in order to reproduce history reasonably. We need to provide the Commission with all the means at its disposal with the necessary conditions for reconciliation and redress. It needs time and resources to do this properly. If it does not, history will repeat how it looks at us who are also a people and a national minority who have centuries of history that need to come out into the light. If this is not done properly and if resources are not added, the judgment of history over the government will be harsh. Speaking of history and peoples, an investigation into how a new reindeer husbandry team should be designed is ongoing. This work is ongoing in a committee that will make proposals for a new reindeer husbandry law. What can be seen in the directive is that the proposals submitted should be consistent with the Supreme Court's conclusions in the Girjas judgment, and then there are some figures. The proposals must also be compatible with Sweden's obligations under international law. The directives are comprehensive and good in many ways. But what puzzles me and thousands of tornadoes is why both the directives and the Committee exclude a people who have also been using the land for hundreds of years. Of course, I'm talking about us tornadoes, käner and lantalaiset. We are a national minority with its own language and history that is being avoided at any cost. We have a national organisation called STR-T, which stands for the Swedish Tornedalings Riksförbund – Torniolaaksolaiset. I know this minority language. In a letter from this organisation to the Ministry of Industry, criticism is expressed of how this error excludes a part of society that is part of everyday life and community, as we should be in today's Sweden. I come from a part of the country where people have shared nature with everyone, whether it has been reindeer husbands, fishermen, hunters or just recreational people enjoying nature. I get calls, emails, and even handwritten letters. There are many reactions to concerns that are painted. I promise you that it is not just some bitter hunters who failed in the hunt last year who are looking for scapegoats, but there are more who are worried. I promise you, I'm really trying to dampen this. It's not so black or white, but the reactions are coming. I personally have high confidence in our indigenous people who care for reindeer, and I am even proud to live in a country where we have this as a cultural heritage that we really should safeguard. But I do not understand why people are so afraid to seek a broader consensus than what is described in the directive. When it comes to hunting and fishing, which is really all about, I have to ask you whether it is something associated with reindeer husbandry. As for those of us who live and work in areas where these challenges are everyday, I promise you that no one is the valet of conflict, which a decision that does not fall into good soil with most of the local population can land in. Let me take another example that bothers me a little. When a mine was dug in my municipality, a pipeline was made to the river, and there came up the deposits that caused the work to be stopped a little. In the village of Aareavaara in the Torne Valley, a discovery came to the surface that was seen with methods that were approved and well known today was 11,000 years old. Why is no one interested in that story? Who was it that grilled in Aareavaara when everything else was underwater? A new story is difficult and heavy. It will not be as easy to tell the Vuollerim that the deposit that was 6,000 years old was not really that old. But the story isn't bad for anyone, is it? That no one dares root in this feels strange to me as a tornedaling who shares my childhood with everyone else who works there and has their land and water together.
i-WJq9gUcQ31K3YjJ96ZSair	Madam President, I would like My interest in the river valley was aroused when I worked at Mora lasaret as a nurse in long-term care in the 1980s. Many of the old sufferers of dementia and had forgotten Swedish. Believe me, I needed an interpreter to make myself understood. I had to go around the department to see if anyone had a pin with the text: Ig dals. This is so that I could communicate with the old ones. But eventually I learned certain phrases and was able to handle the situation a little better. But it was not only the old and dementia who had forgotten the Swedish that made me feel like a stranger and an immigrant. Even in the staff room they talked Moramål, Orsamål and so on depending on which village you came from. It reminded me of how I felt when I worked in Tanzania a few years later before learning Swahili. To dabble, that's to speak this ancient goal. It is a branch of the Old Norse language tree. It was different from the Swedish State already in the Middle Ages, and according to some researchers even earlier. It has greater similarities with how they spoke in Viking times. This really is not just about dialects. There are as great differences between Swedish and river valley as there are between Swedish and Icelandic. Both grammar and vocabulary differ significantly, as several speakers have pointed out here. Since my family and I lived in Mora and Orsa in the 1980s, the Swedes have reportedly gone quite far. The young generation in the Mora and Orsa area has lost much of their goals. In Älvdalen, however, a determined effort has been made to maintain their language. Many linguists with international reputation have contributed. Dictionarys, grammars, schoolbooks, fairytale books, and even a Memory game have been developed. I have some examples down in the bench if anyone is interested. It has been written and performed dramas and musicals. There have been recorded songs in different genres. They've even dubbed the Pelle Svanslös film in the river valley. Teachers are also trained to be able to teach river valleys. Much of this has been financed by funds from the General Inheritance Fund. A project is currently being carried out in collaboration with MIT in Boston to develop a keyboard where the characters for the language sounds missing in Swedish are included, such as toning reading sounds and nasal vowels. Another project has been commissioned by the Braille Board to produce Braille for River Valley where these characters are translated into Braille. Älvdalska received its own ISO code in 2016, which means that it is regarded as a language internationally. The Committee of Language Experts of the Council of Europe has concluded that all the criteria are met to consider the river valley as a part of the country. The Commission has also confirmed this by calling on the Swedish Government to describe the status of the language in its annual reports on minority languages. Madam President, I would like Do not let the river valley suffer the same fate as the Mora and Orsa cases that are about to die out. The Elf Valley is alive. The interest of young people to learn to speak elf is great. Many children are bilingual today and use river valley as their everyday language. It confirmed the young people I met during my visit to Rot's school a few weeks ago. They are as purposeful as Icelanders and Norwegians in finding native words instead of loan words. For example, a mobile phone is called wavel slaver duos – about the box in which you go and talk. The Elf valleys do not ask for their language to be put on an equal footing with the national minority languages. But they need continued support when the grant from the General Heritage Fund ends next year in order to translate teaching material, produce language publications, coordinate efforts and set aside teaching time for this purpose. Therefore, the river valley needs to be recognised as a language and not just as a dialect. The Constitutional Committee's report, which we are now debating, describes the European Charter on Regional or Minority Languages, the so-called Minority Language Convention as follows: ..................................................... This definition is clear. It matches the point and points into the river valley. To reject my motions and those of the rest would be a contradiction. That is why I am in favour of reservation 12 in paragraph 6.
i-DZmmuH9gdBf8vsgPE8Do5k	Madam President, I would like Swedish minority policy has taken decisive steps forward, as several speakers before me have mentioned. After the division of the kingdom in 1809 Sweden was defined as an ethnically homogeneous country, and the minorities that existed were to be assimilated. This was done in a number of ways: in normal schools for the Sami people and by forced repression of tornadoes, to name a few. The repression of the Roma group still leaves its mark today in the form of poorer public health and economic exclusion. The Government has therefore implemented a number of measures against anti-Ziganism and for Roma inclusion. The Jewish group is under anti-Semitic attack. The Government works to promote education to prevent anti-Semitism and other forms of racism through, among other things, increased resources for the Swedish National Agency for Education and the Swedish Research Council. Madam President, I would like The introduction of the special status of national minorities and their inclusion in the form of government marked a decisive breakthrough. Gradually, further steps have been taken. A White Paper on the repression of the Roma was one. The decision on a consultation arrangement for the Sami people was another such step. According to the budget, various language centres for minorities are set up and action programmes for minority languages are developed. In the deepening of security policy cooperation with Finland, it is also to our advantage that we have a large population who master Finnish and that Swedish is an official language of Finland. Let's make use of that resource. Reforms of the kind I have mentioned will strengthen the rights of minorities, but further steps will have to be taken. I support the proposal in the Constitutional Committee's report.
i-3tjnvRASJgojf33LBNyoyQ	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the reservation to be approved. We are in two acute crises right now. First of all, of course, it concerns the crisis and the war in Ukraine. It is a humanitarian disaster and an illegal attack war directed by Putin. The second crisis is the acute climate emergency. We have temperatures above 40 degrees above normal in Antarctica and 30 degrees above normal in the Arctic. Floods and storms come as a result of the climate emergency. A recent IPCC report underlines the seriousness of the situation. There is a common denominator for these two crises. It's called energy use. What fuel we fill Swedish cars with, what comes from Swedish chimneys and what we heat our houses with plays a part in the possibilities to reach our climate goals and the Paris Agreement, and also in the possibilities to put an end to Putin's war machinery. The first part we know well in here. So let's take a look at the other one. At the moment, the EU is importing Russian energy to a value of EUR 600 million a day. Coal, gas, oil and uranium from Russia are fertilizing Putin's war fund. Over half of Russian export revenues come from energy, and the EU is the largest market for Russia. What does this have to do with Sweden, then, one might ask. I'll tell you what this has to do with us. First of all, Sweden is dependent on Russian uranium. About half of the enriched uranium imported into Sweden last year came from Russia. Which is perhaps even more important, however, is that 10 per cent of the crude oil imported into Sweden came from Russia directly last year. More than half of all petrol and diesel are refined abroad. For these fuels, there are currently no methods to review the origins because the oil lobby has succeeded in putting an end to such measures. But that means that just over half – 61% – in the EU originates outside the EU. Very much of it comes from Russia. In addition to the consumption of fossil fuels and crude oil from Russia, Putin war treasury also means that when we consume crude oil and fossil fuels from other countries, we contribute by keeping the price up and enabling Putin to send its energy elsewhere if we choose to strangle it to Sweden. Last but not least, Sweden and Swedish industry are still very dependent on Russian gas. We are in the middle of this situation. We have a deep fossil dependence that both fertilises the Russian war machine and fires the galloping climate emergency. The Green Party is alone on the side that wants to take us out of this addiction. The Green Party is the only party that makes a move to lift us out of the dependence on fossil fuels. The decision we are facing now speaks clearly in this regard. If you listen to the other parties in this House, you can easily imagine that there are no alternatives, that the only solution we have is to subsidise and continue to fuel the dependence on fossil energy. But there are alternatives. There are alternative methods of supporting households, farms and businesses in our country. The Green Party has in recent weeks presented packages after packages that are about supporting these groups without burning more fossils in Sweden. It's necessary. The burden of the ongoing war, inflation and more expensive prices is something that we will have to bear together. We must then share the burden jointly and severally. Let me give you some examples of what the Green Party thinks should be done:
i-PyEGGcpeuQ99N72hXwKMdk	中 reduce the tax significantly in sparsely populated areas, equivalent to SEK 4 000 more in the wallet for ordinary people
i-Fi6yg1xoDTV2xWquajSQ8c	中 introduces a special rural bonus to those who choose to scrap their fossil car and instead buy an electric car. We want a special bonus of 90 000 SEK for that. I could tell you a lot more. The point is that there are alternatives and ways to support those who really need support at this difficult moment. But let us not do so in a way that fertilises Putin war fund or that dilutes the galloping climate emergency that we are currently in. Support households, not Putin!
i-ByVJYoV41tTQKjqSF5dy2T	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the proposal to be approved. Today's debate is a consequence of the fall in the Government's budget in December. One of the few adjustments made was a reduction in taxes on fuel, which the government is now presenting to Parliament. This term of office has, to say the least, been of the messiest kind, at least since I took office in Parliament. There is a right-wing majority in this House. But the bourgeois side has not been able to find support for the formation of government, which is a consequence of the fact that one of the parties cannot swallow a collaboration with the Swedish Democrats. It has given us a time that has made demands on the government that has taken responsibility for governing the country, to negotiate and find solutions in different ways to be able to lead Sweden through a troubled time. Add the two years of pandemic that hit the world and Sweden hard! Substantial efforts have been required to keep the country on its feet, to move forward in the form of care for both jobs and household finances. I think I speak for more than myself when I say that the longing for a normal state has been great, that the relief when that third shot was taken and we could finally open up the community was great. The fact that we are now facing another crisis of war as a result of Putin's heinous abuse of a free, democratic country has made further demands on the now Social Democratic-led government and on the Riksdag, which in all probability has not made the last difficult decision. Since the process of today's decision began, much water has flowed under the bridges. Decisions in the Riksdag usually take a lot of time from both the workload and the democratic point of view. The tax cut that we are debating today suddenly does not seem quite relevant because of the price trend that we have seen on fuels in recent times. And the government has already put forward a proposal for further tax relief down to the EU minimum level. I live in a county with a large distance. In Pajala, one of the municipalities there, the home ministry runs twice a year around the world. A close relative of mine daily has 200 miles [120 km] to drive to work, and it is not considered very far. In my home country, the ore and the forest are transported long distances. And the people who work with this often need access to vehicles, and public transport is not a choice that many people can make. Fuel prices are therefore a subject of constant concern. In addition to what we have debated today, the government has proposed to reduce the tax to what is currently the lowest level in the EU and to provide support to households with SEK 1 000 or SEK 1 500 in sparsely populated areas per owned car. Many have pointed out that it is not very accurate. But the design is such that the support will simply reach out to households now that the need exists. In the longer term, a proposal for a travel allowance will be implemented. Of course, the talk about us giving subsidies to manage taxes is only one way of concealing the fact that our own proposals may be in danger of missing out completely or of delaying quite properly. However, if the conditions and reality change, that is, if the European Commission were to hear about a change in the regulatory framework and have 27 Member States, then we would have to take this as a starting point, because there is an opportunity to seek an exception. But then we should be aware that the Commission has three months to deal with the proposal. Twenty-seven Member States are to be brought with them to make it feasible, and then we will start legislating. The Commission has already highlighted four times in the past a proposal for a revision of the regulatory framework, and each time the proposal has fallen on the demand for 27 countries' unity. The 5 crowns at the pump depend on this, as we have heard before. I think that we need to be honest with the voters and the citizens. Indeed, what the government is proposing is feasible based on the reality of the situation today. The fact that we need to switch to fossil independence should be clear. Climate change will not wait. Today, the highest temperatures in Kiruna were reported since the measurements began. The spring winter of my childhood is no longer the same, and climate change has already had far-reaching consequences for the wildlife of my home country. Anyone who may still feel like a climate sceptic can take the perspective of security policy instead. At the moment, it should be clear that we can no longer be dependent on countries that do not respect democracy and human rights. Breaking fossil dependence has also become a security political and democratic issue. We need to break fossil dependence, and we are well placed to do so if we help each other. If we agree that conversion is necessary, we need to jointly bear responsibility for the conversion that is taking place. And it will cost, but it can also create new conditions if we are not afraid of change. The base industry that Reinfeldt talked about as basicly Gone is leading today the green transition in the steel industry in Sweden, in Norrbotten. Through the trade union movement, we have learned that the greatest threat to jobs is not the changes in the world but, on the contrary, not changing with them. The costs and consequences of the changes must also be borne jointly in order for people to have confidence that they will not be left alone to bear the costs, but that they will make it through the transition time together. We've done that before, and we can do that now. Sweden has the potential to increase domestic production of better fuels. In my hometown of Piteå we make some of them. We live in a transport-dependent county. But we also live in a county that has often been forced to change, and we have done so in common. Therefore, I believe that our best conditions for meeting the future are a government that believes that we should both share responsibility and dare to invest in the future. A new travel allowance is therefore presented with resources allocated to continue to shift the vehicle fleet and financial relief for households in order to jointly take on the future. And these are proposals that are feasible now, not perhaps.
i-W7xqUW1P5LsosoyeW6tsvG	Madam President, I would like Of course, most or all of the political issues fade in the light of the terrible events that are taking place in Ukraine and Russia's completely insane warfare and war against Western Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. Nevertheless, the other questions will of course also be dealt with and given a proper examination here in the Swedish Parliament. I agree with Mr Lorentz when he notes that there are several crises in the world. The war in Ukraine is one of them. The environmental problems are different. Perhaps the Green Party forgets – Swedish households know that very well – that the problems that exist are not only those in the big world, but also the problems that people experience in their everyday lives. Fuel prices, the price for working, the price for being dependent on the car, the price for picking up the training or visiting Mom at the retirement home have skyrocketed in such a way that for many people it is not worthwhile to work at all. Madam President, I would like We have been able to read in newspapers, hear on the radio, watch TV and in other ways get information about people who have stopped working, simply because it no longer pays off when it is so expensive to go to work. We have heard of parents who can no longer afford to drive their children to various leisure activities. We have heard of companies living under a constant threat of bankruptcy because liquidity is so poor when fuel costs are so high. We have heard of people living mainly in rural areas who are not only affected by the fact that driving is expensive but also suffer from rising food prices. When it becomes expensive to transport raw materials and groceries, it is also noticeable when you have to pay at the cashier in the store. Madam President, I would like It's no surprise it's turned out this way. Now we are in a crisis based on the fact that we have a war in our vicinity. This has negative consequences for Sweden. But many of those problems we have created all by ourselves. It is always important when making political decisions and for a political discussion that you see your own part in the problems that exist. Sweden has created many of those problems itself. We've been warning about it for a long time. We have had a development in which fuel has been taxed increasingly harshly. We have been given new regulations to have the world's highest involvement in our fuels, which makes them much more expensive. A range of taxes have been added on households that depend on the car. This applies, for example, to a very badly designed bonus malus system which has become worse and even more expensive year by year. The burden has simply been placed on the car. It would not have been a major problem if it had been an easy choice or fully possible to change and take another mode of transport or get an electric car. But for a lot of households, the reality is that a new electric car is not affordable. If you even had an electric car, there's no way to charge it anywhere, so that's not an option. What is really the big problem for the Green Party is that electric cars run on electricity. You don't want to make that either. Not only does it come by itself, but electricity comes from the fact that we produce electricity with nuclear and hydroelectric power. We have focused in Swedish politics on removing as much electricity production as possible. For example, Minister of Finance Mikael Damberg has previously expressed it as a victory for democracy when we have shut down nuclear power plants in Sweden. Nor have we made it easier for those households or companies that would like to change their position in this way. The fact is that today we do not have the possibility of switching to electricity. This is simply due to the fact that many times, during great times of the day and several times a year, there is no electricity. It doesn't matter if there's a lot of electricity in a month or there was a lot of electricity two months ago. There is one thing that is needed here and now, always, constantly and constantly. A whole fleet of vehicles cannot be changed unless this permanent and stable supply of electricity can be secured at first every day of the year and every hour of the day. In addition, the charging infrastructure needs to be expanded, as we propose. Madam President, I would like Nor is it possible for a family to travel only collectively. There is no public transport everywhere. Frankly: I am from the beginning from Kalmar and Kalmarit but I have lived in Solna here in the Stockholm area for a long time. Absolutely: If you do not have children, do not have pets, do not have leisure activities and do not need big shopping, life here can of course live by metro, commuter trains and so on. But for most families, things look different. There is no bus ride from home to preschool, to school and to the workplace, back to pick up the sick child and leave with Grandma and back to work. This also applies to a health centre visit, to visit your mother at the retirement home and to go to hockey practice and home. Life doesn't work that way. It is not possible to replace the car for families who want to live a life that somehow works. Madam President, I would like We have therefore repeatedly warned against this trend with ever higher taxes on fuel. We are, of course, pleased that we are taking a step in the right direction here. We are pleased that we have received broad support for our proposal to reduce taxes on fuels. Madam President, I would like Then there is the long-term direction that we are discussing here today in order to reduce taxation on fuels. It will mean things for companies, households, families and Sweden in the long term. It will be a little cheaper to use the car. Living in sparsely populated areas will be a little less expensive. We will get a little less price pressure up in our grocery stores. We will have a slightly more competitive industry, a little better for exports and so on. That's a lot of small improvements. Then, at the same time, there is a major discussion on how to deal with the current crisis. There, the Moderates – not the government, which was mentioned here before – have pushed ahead with others, and have also made it clear that we are now going to get a lot of relief in place for the households that depend on the car. This also applies to those companies that rely on fuel in order to be able to create prosperity in Sweden in a competitive manner. Madam President, I would like I have previously worked at the Ministry of Finance with tax issues for previous governments. I find it very difficult for the rhetoric that wants to give the impression that we cannot reduce the costs of fuel in Sweden. I can promise all of you who are listening to this debate, how many there are now: there is no European regulation that says that Sweden should have Europe's most expensive fuel. So it doesn't exist. There is no such regulation in the EU. There are no EU rules on this. There are no EU requirements for this. There's nothing. We ourselves own that question. We ourselves have put ourselves in a situation where, even before the crisis, we had Europe's highest price for diesel, for example. We have put ourselves in this situation with the high price of petrol. There's no way to blame anyone else. There is no such EU rule. Everyone realizes that right away who's thinking about it. The other countries with much lower prices are also in the EU. Madam President, I would like I do not think it is wise and responsible in a situation where we need each other more than ever in Europe, Europe and the West when we have such an aggressive neighbour in the East to speak down the institutions and blame them. That we have the highest prices in the world is only the Social Democrats who are responsible for.
i-2TJHzdUdnYSouzRbd1gsbp	Madam President, I would like There is quite a lot that I would really like to respond to in Niklas Wykman's speech. It was a tangle of half lies, fiction and a lot of nonsense said to be honest. I can only take the point that he does not seem to understand that his own bonus malus proposal is much more expensive than the government. The government's going back because it has not listened to the Green Party when we have said that you should tighten up both bonuses and malus. That's why we're going backwards. The Moderates say no to any sharpening of bonus malus. This means that the system would go down many billions of dollars. This is something that those who don't have much money in their wallets are forced to pay for Niklas Wykman's friends in Djursholm to buy a thirsty suv. But this was not the main reason I took a line. What I was going to say about is really the climate target. Niklas Wykman represents a party that has signed up for a climate target by 2030. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency conducts regular reviews of the policies carried out. It is very clear on the issue of fuel prices and reduction obligations. The two instruments are crucial for us to be close to achieving the 2030 target at all. In practice, the Moderates' response means giving up the climate target. I was actually going to ask Niklas Wykman if he wants to say it straight out. That's what it means in practice. But I wonder if he wants to say straight out that the Moderates' message nowadays is that they have given up the Swedish climate policy framework and the climate goals that we have adopted in the Swedish parliament.
i-5yHAWUDTPV4cjU6L2gNfHy	Madam President, I would like It's just the opposite. That is why the Moderates have proposed the most comprehensive climate policy budget that Sweden has ever had. The fact that you choose not to make the proposals just as stupid as Lorentz Tovatt and the Green Party want them does not mean that you do not want effective measures. For example, we propose ten times as much investment in carbon storage as the government does. It is the technological front end to remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. It works and can be built here and now. It will significantly reduce emissions without burdening households, and especially rural households. Otherwise, I think the Green Party is receiving a lot of undeserved criticism. The Green Party should, of course, be commended. It has succeeded in getting its policy through. It told the voters that it would slow down growth. It said it would drive up fuel costs the highest in the world. You'd cancel and get rid of the flights. Very much of that has actually been achieved by the Green Party. It's just that once it happened, it turned out that even those who voted for the Green Party didn't want it. The Green Party then left the government in some sort of protest against themselves and is now seeking renewed confidence to get back into the government, even though it recently chose to leave it on its own. I understand that Lorentz Tovatt has a very hard time explaining that to people. Why vote for such a political party? It is a party that got its politics through, but it was a policy that became so burdensome to households that they did not want it and did not want to feel it. Then the Green Party said that it resigns, and then they say: "But vote for us, because we want to do the same thing again only a few years later, when it no longer feels as hard!" I think, Lorentz Tovatt, you need to explain to the voters why you do that.
i-EjwEZE253gfrydKDJ3uYk1	Madam President, I would like I can tell Niklas Wykman why we left the government. It was because his own party presented a budget that harms Sweden and that he forced the government to implement. Among other things, the budget significantly reduced the price of emissions – something that goes against climate targets. That was why we left the government; it was really nothing else. All right, climate targets apply, according to Niklas Wykman. It is a completely revolutionary invention that he presents here in the speaker's chair, namely CO2 capture and storage on the cars. I can't believe it! If that's true, I'm in shock at what technical achievement Niklas Wykman is in. The climate target we have for 2030 concerns transport. It does not concern cogeneration, and it does not concern industry, but transport emissions by 2030. As far as I am concerned, there is not – unless Niklas has come up with someone himself – any technology to capture carbon dioxide from the exhaust pipe of the cars. In other words, there are other things that are needed to achieve this climate target, so Niklas will still be the answer when it comes to how to do it. There was another point I wanted to make and which surprised me with Niklas Wykman's speech. It was that he dared mention electricity generation. There is a party in the Swedish Parliament that is an expert, perhaps a Swedish champion, in saying no to new electricity production. That party's called the Moderates. 71 terawatt hours – significantly more than the existing nuclear power in Sweden – new wind power has been rejected by the Moderates only in the past year. These are projects that could be built in southern Sweden and that would help solve impact problems and reduce the cost for ordinary people. The Moderates say no to that. Borrow your voice to Kristersson if you want higher electricity prices!
i-9MfgBF1N59wx3VEmu1mKh4	Madam President, I would like I think that everyone who listens to this feels that the Moderates and the Green Party are each other's opponents in this debate and discussion. I would like to underline and clarify that message to the Swedish people, because that is indeed the case. If you're tired of different kinds of environmental party madness, it's safer to vote for the Moderates. On the slightly more light-hearted theme, I think it was an environmental party or perhaps a left-wing party – I can't remember it because sometimes it's hard to separate these parts – who suggested that we solve the energy supply by putting a wind spin on each car and thus get some kind of eternity machine. There was some physicist who then informed that it violated the laws of nature. I have never proposed, Lorentz Tovatt, that we have a CO2 capture at each exhaust pipe. But it will be very illustrating for what is really important for the Green Party. So the important thing for them is not that we reduce carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. Here the Moderates have the most ambitious proposal ever in Sweden to capture and reduce carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. Lorentz Tovatt and the Green Party completely reject it. They say it doesn't matter, because it doesn't affect the motorists. It doesn't make it more expensive for the mother to pick up the kids. It doesn't make it more expensive to go to work. That doesn't make it more expensive to pick up at hockey practice. This does not make it more expensive to go to the retirement home or whatever you need the car for. And then it doesn't matter. Then it's like it's not important. The important thing for Lorentz Tovatt and the Green Party is that you have to go after the families that depend on the car, because they don't like it. You should live in Stockholm, you should ride the subway and you should grow food on your own balcony. You should not make sure that there are any minerals or anything else to have economic growth with, but you should live on Södermalm, engage in balcony cultivation and moralize over everything and everyone – always and all over the world. It's important. Then it is environmental policy for real. But when the Moderates put forward a proposal that would radically reduce the level of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, it does not count because it does not affect families.
i-7bTBbeAEyPCdJwpLBQucaH	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval of the proposal we are debating here today. It is thus a reduction in the energy tax on petrol and diesel that will lead to the fuel price being reduced by 50 øre per litre at the pump. This is the result of the joint budget reservation presented by the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats, which won the parliamentary majority last autumn. Of course, 50 øre per litre may sound a bit fuzzy now, but it is still a step in the right direction. It must also be borne in mind that, at the time of the negotiation of this tax reduction, the diesel price was a little more than SEK 19 per litre. Madam President, I would like In order to put things in perspective, we need to look at what conditions we have in our country. Sweden is the third largest country in the EU and at the same time the second most sparsely populated country. This is a combination that makes a lot of people in Sweden dependent on the car to make their life puzzle go together. I think that is an indisputable fact. Already last autumn Sweden had among the highest fuel prices in the world, and since 1 January 2021 the diesel price in Sweden has increased by about 70 per cent. The reasons are several: both the increased reduction obligation and the annual tax increases made by the government. Madam President, I would like For three years in a row, the government has paused the so-called bnp indexation of fuel tax – an over-indexation of the tax that is done every year. This pause is said to be made to compensate for the increased reduction obligation. But the automatic tax increase with KPI indexation continues. In 2019, when the government did this for the first time, the bill was called reduced tax on fuel. However, it was not a reduced tax on fuel unless it is considered that automatic tax censuses are some kind of natural law. Instead, the result was a slightly reduced increase in the tax. Of course, the war in Ukraine has also pushed up the world market price of oil and fuel in recent weeks, but at the same time it is an effect that affects the whole world. However, Swedish fuel taxes – not to mention the reduction obligation – are something that really stands out in an international perspective. The government has put forward proposals for a further reduction in fuel tax of 1.30 per litre at the pump, but it is not enough as it is now. You also go forward with 1 000 SEK to each car owner. What kind of proposal is it now – a car subsidy that will reduce running fuel costs and fuel taxes! Reimbursing high taxes with subsidies instead of reducing taxes is nothing but stupid. Sweden needs a fresh start. Post Corona is a number of industries that are still suffering from the aftermath of the pandemic that we are coming out of. Facilitating transport and communications, which is not only a lubricant in society but also essential for a functioning economy, should be a matter of course. So what do the Swedish Democrats want? In addition to removing the automatic tax increases in the form of KPI and bnp indexation, we want to reduce fuel tax permanently so that it will be 2 SEK cheaper at pump in addition to the 50 ear we decide on now. The level of the reduction obligation we have in Sweden must be reduced to a more harmonised level. On diesel we want to reduce it from 30.5% to 5% and on petrol from 7.8 to 2%. We have absolutely nothing against gradually replacing the fossil share of fuels with more environmentally friendly fuels. But we cannot lie so wrong in levels compared to other countries. Moreover, it is a fact that today we import as much as 85% of the biofuels we use. It is an import that can certainly be discussed as to whether it is neither sustainable nor environmentally friendly. Madam President, I would like That in this way we put the Swedish business community in a significantly worse position than its foreign competitors is counterproductive for Sweden as a nation. We now hear calls from industries, such as the haulage industry, which perform a very important function in society and ensure that the transport of goods for industries, grocery stores and health care, among other things, works. Many of these companies are now in danger of being knocked out because they are often bound in contracts where they find it difficult to compensate for the high fuel prices. We also see how farmers are considering closing their production as the costs of fuel, manure, feed and other inputs are rising at a faster rate than can be compensated by price increases. This risks leading to a reduction in Swedish food production and a reduction in self-sufficiency. If this is allowed to happen, it goes against the ambition that Sweden must become more self-sufficient in food, among other things. Over the last two years of the pandemic, with various exceptions, we have been able to maintain a reasonably functioning food commodity flow. However, in the event that we would have to experience other times of crisis or abuse, it is not certain that we will be able to rely on the transport of food from abroad. We must ensure a higher share of self-sufficiency even in peacetime. Let us not now make the same mistakes that previous governments have made with defence. If we allow the few farmers we have left the table below and let the Swedish fields be planted and grow again with forest, it will take a long time to restore a functioning Swedish food production. On the day when we cannot put food on the table or cannot eat enough, fuel prices are a worldly matter. Therefore, fuel prices are a matter of fate, not only for industry and agriculture, but also for Sweden. We must not forget the situation of households either. We have been able to read about how people quit their jobs because it has stopped being profitable to work because it is so expensive to take the car to work. Moreover, if you are forced to spend more and more of your disposable income on refuelling the car, you have less money left for other consumption, and it also risks affecting the economic recovery from the corona. Madam President, I would like Finally, we also believe that a temporary reduction in VAT on fuels should be introduced. A reduction in VAT from 25 percent to 6 percent would have an effect of approximately SEK 3.75 per litre at pump. This reduction in VAT would be temporary and would last for six months. The fact is that now, because of the high world oil price, the government can collect as much as $1 billion a month in increased VAT revenue. This rhymes badly with the many companies and households who find it difficult to reconcile everyday life because of the high fuel prices. The Swedish democrats' proposed reduction in VAT, together with reduced tax reduction and reduced fuel tax, would have an effect on the diesel price by approximately SEK 9.50 per litre and on the petrol price by approximately SEK 6.50 per litre. How can this be financed, of course, a friend of order. One might also wonder what the effect would be if we did nothing. As I have mentioned, several industries and households are already on their knees and are in danger of succumbing to high fuel prices. Now there is also a proposal in the Riksdag Finance Committee with the aim to reduce the price of fuel at a pump with a total of SEK 5 per litre for diesel and SEK 4 per litre for petrol. The Swedish Democrats have supported this as a step towards more reasonable fuel prices in Sweden. Once again, I call for the proposal to be approved. Otherwise, we refer to our specific opinion in the report.
i-Hnkt1BKXn9YX3aQU2Sqh66	Madam President, I would like We are debating today an issue that was initiated a while ago. The terrible war in Ukraine and its sanctions have affected many factors, not least the price level of electricity and fuel, in a drastic way, which led us in the Center Party to present several initiatives to mitigate the side effects of the increased costs. For the Center Party, the opportunity to live and work throughout the country is absolutely central. High fuel prices have meant a tough situation for many, especially for those who live in rural and sparsely populated areas or who feed in green industries. At the same time, Sweden is in the midst of a powerful green transition throughout the country, which must be able to continue. The Center Party wants to reduce emissions from the transport sector, while at the same time we need to make it easier for people who need the car in their daily lives. This is why the Center Party has presented a powerful package that totals SEK 7.4 billion to reduce emissions, not mobility. We want to reduce the tax on biofuels that are mixed in with petrol or diesel in the context of the reduction obligation. We want to promote the involvement of renewable fuels, which reduce emissions. It also lowers the cost of fuel at the pump. We want to stop the tax increase on pure biofuels, because otherwise they are usually more expensive than their fossil counterparts. We want to reform the travel allowance with an increased rural focus. People in rural areas often depend on the car to get their everyday lives together, so the cost increases hit them extra hard. We need to phase out fossil fuels more quickly, while ensuring that rural people do not bear an unreasonable share of the cost. We want the upper limit to be raised from the government's proposal of 80 km to 150 km and the compensation per kilometre to increase from the study's proposal of 50 øre to 70 øre. We want to increase biofuel production in Sweden to lower fuel prices, while improving the climate and creating jobs in rural areas. Through more production in Sweden, we also make ourselves less dependent on imports of fossil fuels. The Center Party wants to speed up the development so that Sweden becomes a net exporter of sustainable biofuels. This is why we propose an annual increase of SEK 600 million in the industrial life in 2023 – 2026 in order to increase the production of biofuels in the country. Finally, we want to double the reduction in diesel fuel, because the cost of fuel represents a significant expenditure on agriculture. The refund is today SEK 1.93 per litre; we suggest that the reduction increases to SEK 4 per litre. In the longer term, the Center Party would rather see a tax shift in which the reduction in diesel is switched to an equal agricultural deduction based on agricultural income. Madam President, I would like Since the majority of Parliament in the budgetary process gave a different direction to budgetary policy than we wanted, we chose in those decisions to abstain. The practice is then that the consequential changes that come from the budget are approved in the Riksdag.
i-6c3pzAVh24P6a8UFrsPiB4	Madam President, I would like Fuel prices, yes. The Left Party believes that fossil fuels must be phased out quickly. The pace of change must increase for the sake of the climate. Moreover, it is quite unreasonable that we are vulnerable and dependent on authoritarian states such as Russia. Among other things, the Left wants rail and charging infrastructure to be expanded, trains to replace domestic flights to a much greater extent than today, public transport to be expanded and prices to be reduced, and the extension of electric cables to the continent and the market price of electricity on the EU market to be reviewed. On Monday, we also presented a proposal to extend public transport in urban and rural areas and to halve tariffs so that more people will be able to choose a more sustainable way of travel. In view of Russia's war of aggression, which is often mentioned and debated in this House, people have died, millions have fled their homes and people have been separated from their loved ones. Sanctions against Russia have been imposed, the war has been condemned and Russia is almost alone with the whole world against itself. We naturally hope that Ukraine will remain an independent democratic state and that the war will end as soon as possible. Sweden will be stable on Ukraine's side. The war has meant that many goods have become scarce goods but also that prices have risen sharply, like on fuel. In a very short time, prices have risen by several SEK per litre, and both individual households and companies have had problems coping with the greatly increased costs. Madam President, I would like Do Members know that the price of diesel has risen by 69% since 1 January 2021? Then I have not counted the peaks when the price grazed at 30 crowns liter. It does not take rocket research to understand the consequences for those companies and individuals who lack tools to compensate with – either higher revenues or saving on something else. I come from that part of the country where the distances are long and the transition is slow, and it is no wonder that I get endless reactions and conversations about how people are affected. I will share with you an example that a citizen gave me. He currently has a cost of SEK 6,000 for fuel just to commute to work. He had expected that with a loan to pay for the replacement of an electric car, which would fit for the bad roads involved in this case, would actually be a little cheaper. But listen and be amazed – the car cannot be delivered for another year. It's not on the shelf. Then it does not help with good arguments about resetting and about the costs today. The fact that there is only one public charging station throughout the municipality does not make the choice easier for this person. The Left Party is a party that sees people's problems in everyday life and does something about them. The Left Party believes that the state should step in and protect households and companies from the oil price shock that is now affecting Sweden. We want it to be possible to live throughout the country, even where there is no public transport as we would like. We want to curb price shocks by means of temporary reductions in fuel taxes and by reducing the reduction obligation. Against this background, we have chosen to withdraw our motion on the Government's proposal for a reduced energy tax on petrol and d isel and are now supporting the Government's proposal. But we want the reduction to be only temporary as the fossil demand cannot continue. As far as taxes and charges on fuels are concerned, there must be a system that is not too different from that of our neighbours and other EU countries. Otherwise, there is a risk that competition will be unhealthy and that we will lose both food supply and haulage, to name but two examples. Finally, Madam President, climate change must be brought about quickly. Each of us can contribute to this even if none of us can solve it alone. System changes and politically decisive decisions on an orderly climate change change are needed. If we are to succeed in this, we must have the support of the people. Let's make sure we get it.
i-K5hgMmAHxV9sWEuyFWHGtH	Madam President, I would like I don't want to ask for a line on Birger Lahti, because I know he's got his heart in the right place. So my line must be interpreted as an outburst of anger against the leadership of the Left Party. The policy that the Left Party is now pursuing means four things. The first is that steps are being taken away from the climate target; the policy leads to significant increases in emissions. Secondly, it leads, as I was talking about, to help fatten Putin's war fund. There is an increase in the consumption of the energy that Putin sends to the EU. Thirdly, from a left-wing perspective, it is also particularly remarkable to choose to make proposals that are disastrous in terms of distribution policy. The 10 percent who are the richest get eight times more in tax cuts than the 10 percent who are the poorest. In terms of distribution policy, a reduced tax on fuel means subsidising the unjustified driving of big city motorists. Fourthly, this means money in the pockets of the big oil companies. The Left Party wants a ceiling on how expensive the fuels should be. This means that the state should go in with the difference, which directly translates means that our tax funds end up in the pockets of the major oil companies. All these four points go directly against what the Left Party traditionally claims to be passionate about: not favouring Putin, striving for climate targets, a reasonable distribution policy profile on politics and not putting our tax money in the pockets of private oil companies. I do not understand how the Left Party could land in this.
i-TQiawgD61Asw7DZd3HmaXZ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lorentz, for your comments! I don't know what signals Lorentz, who lives in a big city, gets. I understand that they can be different from the ones I get. Our proposals are based on a temporary reduction in prices or a three-month price cap to allow these companies – I mentioned only two – to have time to renegotiate their contracts with their clients. I think, like Mr Lorentz, that it is not sustainable for the state to subsidise fuels. But when we talk about this ceiling, it is actually taxes, VAT and such things that make up the top of the price. As I mentioned, I think it will be wrong if we have completely different prices from our neighbours. We can look at our food supply and other sectors that are affected. I don't know how it would go for less fuel. This one in Stockholm that is rich will buy fuel no matter what it costs. But those living in the countryside say they're gonna quit work because they can't afford to get there. You talk a lot about electric cars. They're not on the shelf. This man said, "I've tried to make a calculation." I could even borrow money. You say, "Yes, it'll be fine." In about a year's time, the car will be in place. What am I supposed to tell this person? You had proposals for a tax cut in the countryside, Lorentz. That sounds great. But does it take less gas for this man to get to work? No, the emissions will be exactly the same. We're trying to find a system that works here today for those who are hit really hard. In fact, I think the Green Party is missing that point.
i-HtYTWU3VozrqEwCjKiVLTs	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Birger Lahti, for the line! I hear exactly the same thing as Birger Lahti. I have very great respect for the fact that it is difficult to get the economy together at this point. That is precisely why I chose to recite measures for between SEK 20 billion and SEK 30 billion that we in the Green Party have proposed. The difference between us and the Left Party at the moment is that we are not proposing a reduction in the price of petrol and diesel, the fossil energy sources that come from Putin. That's the big difference here. We believe that it is possible to support the economy of households, agriculture and companies in other ways. We have presented investments of between SEK 20 billion and SEK 30 billion that we clearly target those who really need them, rather than, as the Left Party does, reducing taxes for everyone. Our proposal is not to subsidise the friends of the Moderates when driving their suvars from Lidingö into Stockholm city. That is where the large amounts of fuel are spent, and it is they who get the most money in their wallets if the tax is lowered on fossil fuels. So the big difference here is that I welcome all types of aid that do not contribute to more money for oil companies, for the metropolitan regions, for Putin's war fund and so on. Let us reform the travel allowance jointly, and let us have cash payments and reduced taxes in rural and sparsely populated areas. I am totally in favour of this. But let us not burn the climate emergency we are currently in, and let us not continue to put money into Putin's war fund.
i-WAw3JUwJDC7PnYVNPdqA3H	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Lorentz, for the line shift! A month ago, the Left Party presented a committee initiative in the Finance Committee to the effect that the government should come back with compensatory measures for those most affected. We'd have had some time. I don't know if the Green Party supported it. If you could stop the money that the Green Party wants to subsidise the countryside with instead of fuel, I would buy your argument, Lorentz Tovatt. But as long as it is gasoline or diesel that you have to buy for this money to get to work, drive children or do other chores, there will be no difference in emissions. There will be no difference when it comes to the emissions of the rich people in Stockholm, because they will drive corpses cursed. They will drive even if it would cost 40 bucks a litre, because they can afford it. But in the short term, we have said that we listen to people out there. They should be able to get to work and have a normal everyday life. At least they'll survive. This is what we are doing in the short term. I have every respect for the desire for measures that do not increase the climate emergency. We're in on it. But in the short term, it is also symbolic policy when there are no alternatives. Like I said, there's no charging infrastructure. There are no cars on the shelf – one year it takes to get a car delivered. In the short term, therefore, this is the best we can do. If you could put money in the tank instead of fuel, I would buy Lorentz Tovatt's argument, but not otherwise.
i-8nPQ2L8XzzxjyedkevSEST	Madam President, I would like Politics is about prioritising between different interests. Today, we will decide on reduced taxes on fuel – or rather: we are debating it today and taking decisions tomorrow. It is good for all those affected by the high fuel prices. At the same time, of course, the decision that we are going to take can be criticised from an environmental point of view. For us Christian Democrats, it is important that all policies take ecological, social and economic considerations into account. That is why, among other things, we are in favour of a green tax shift, of bonus malus and of reduction obligations as a method. Any changes aimed at improving the environment must also be opposed to their impact on people's everyday lives and on how our agriculture and industry are able to develop. Madam President, I would like The terrible war in Ukraine also has consequences for us in Sweden. Under normal conditions, Ukraine and Russia account for about 40% of the world's wheat exports. The result of the war will be that we cannot sow, and therefore not harvest, which means that we already know that in the autumn and next year we will see increased prices of wheat and famine in countries that depend entirely on Ukraine's harvests in particular. We in Sweden can increase our production, but right now we are getting more and more signals that farmers choose to phase out their agriculture because of, among other things, high energy and fuel prices. This kind of international reality must be taken with us when we discuss Swedish energy and fuel policy. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats support the proposal in the report to reduce the energy tax on petrol and diesel so that the pump price is reduced by 50 cents per litre from 1 May 2022. Later this spring we will take further decisions on reduced tax by SEK 1.30 liters in the supplementary budget. These two reductions, together with VAT effects, will lead to a reduction of just over SEK 2 at the pump. Madam President, I would like At the same time, this is not enough. We must have energy and fuel costs that enable our industry to develop and compete with other international companies. We must also have prices that enable all citizens, wherever they live, to cope with everyday life. That is why, among other things, we want to review the reduction obligation. It is not reasonable for Sweden to have a reduction obligation with a 30.5% biofuel blend when the rest of the EU mix in about 6 – 7%. Since biofuel production is more expensive while there is a shortage of biofuels, this leads to an increase in the overall price of fuel when you have a high level of biofuel input. We all agree that we need to reduce our emissions, and reduction obligations are a good method for achieving lower emissions. But we cannot torment our citizens at the same time as punishing Swedish agriculture and Swedish jobs just to be three or four times as good as the rest of the EU. A functioning environmental policy must have popular support. Otherwise, in the long run, it will mean that the citizens simply do not believe in it. All parts must be balanced – the economic, social and ecological consequences. Madam President, I would like What is now happening is a change in taxation in response to the extreme costs that have hit Sweden. At the same time, we need to look at the whole of vehicle and fuel taxation in the long term. The vehicles of the future will be driven in a more environmentally friendly way and CO2 emissions will continue to decrease. This means that we need to think about what taxation should look like over time. In recent years, we have highlighted the need for a new digital vehicle and fuel taxation that takes into account the environmental performance, size, fuel systems, mileage and the time of day spent on infrastructure. By abolishing other taxes and charges and bringing them together in a new system, we can have better environmental management, while also having the opportunity to tax those foreign trucks which are currently competing with our hauliers. I have not seen a good basis on how much money is involved, but in talks with the Minister for Infrastructure, he has noted that it is probably about 3 billion that we are not collecting from foreign companies today. This is bad for us because we need the money to rebuild our roads. But it is also negative because it means that our hauliers have to pay for driving on our roads while foreign road hauliers avoid these costs. This difference, combined with the fact that foreign hauliers have lower personnel costs and significantly lower fuel costs, means that our companies will in the long run find it extremely difficult to survive. We therefore need to make changes that lead to lower fuel costs in both the short and long term. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal. In addition, I would also like to travel to Cato: I also believe that Putin belongs in The Hague.
i-VNgu4KHQJt32A35fdKCrjx	Madam President, I would like Our world view has changed dramatically in a few weeks. Russia's illegal invasion of Ukraine has, above all, been a humanitarian disaster, but at the same time it is a threat to Europe's security regime. In this context, discussing fuel prices seems rather strange, but the everyday issues must also be allowed to take place. The consequence of the war, that energy prices globally have increased dramatically, not least fuel prices, must be dealt with. Madam President, I would like Today's debate concerns a proposal based on the budget decision taken in December 2021. After that, fuel prices have appeared as a direct consequence of Russia's invasion of Ukraine and the clear sanctions imposed by the West. Fuel prices are at levels that we have never seen before. It is important that popular support for sanctions is maintained and that sanctions are long-term, if the war were to continue for a long time, which is unfortunately one of the scenarios we have to plan for. The sharp rise in fuel prices is hitting the country's transport. With the rapid price increase that has taken place in recent weeks, individuals and companies have no opportunity to change. People around our country who do not have access to any alternative means of travel risk having their finances destroyed when commuting to work, visiting health care and visiting relatives quickly poke big holes in their wallets. Transport companies with fixed contracts cannot allow increased fuel prices to pass on to customers. As a result, these companies may have to operate unprofitable transport because of fuel prices. Companies are then in danger of going bankrupt, so jobs can be lost. As a result of the sharp rise in world market prices, the government's tax revenue is increasing. But it is not reasonable for households and businesses to take the full effect of the high fuel prices, which are the result of Putin's attack on Ukraine, while the state, on the other hand, is making money. Liberals therefore consider that temporary compensation is needed in the form of a temporary tax reduction. First and foremost, the energy tax. On the other hand, the CO2 tax that governs the environment should remain in place. It is important that the price signal remains so that we can switch to electric vehicles and so that we take measures during the changeover to reduce the use of diesel and petrol. At the current price level, the climate-management effect of fuel taxation will still be maintained, even in the case of a temporary tax reduction. Although we Liberals want to see another temporary reduction in fuel prices, I support the proposal, which is a consequential change to the budget decision already taken by Parliament in 2022. I therefore support the committee's proposal and, at the same time, refer to our specific opinion with the same content as what I have mentioned here today.
i-PRqmFCw2VJepHTCCR2LTcc	Madam President, I would like Without initiating a debate, I would like to support our follow-up motion, written by Per Åsling and others. I therefore support my reservation in paragraph 2.
i-63yy1V7Yd8Ad3ASDj28n9W	Madam President, I would like Today, we are debating the Government's proposal for legislative changes to improve quality and equivalence in educational care. These are legislative changes that are long-awaited and much-needed. Pedagogical care is an alternative to preschool, and it is aimed at children of the same age. Pedagogical care – which in the most common form is carried out as a family day-care centre where staff take care of children in their own home – has a mission similar to that of preschool. But it is not part of the school system and, unlike preschool, is not governed by a curriculum, although the curriculum should be guiding. Guardians in Sweden today have the right to choose between preschool and educational care. However, as the report of the Committee on Education and Training shows, the number of children in educational care has fallen drastically over the last 30 years, and it continues to decrease annually. Today, about 10 000 children are enrolled in educational care, compared with about 130 000 children in the 1990s. The difference can largely be explained by the expansion of preschool. Around the country, activities within educational care are conducted by knowledgeable and committed staff with the best interests of the children in focus. Before I went to preschool, I went to a family day-care centre, where my day-care provider, my day mother Elisabeth, overwhelmed me with love, learning and play. But there are also examples of activities that are not worthy of our welfare country and the obligations we have under the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Recently we have been reached by reports showing serious deficiencies, not least among the growing number of individual activities established in vulnerable areas. It has been about mismanagement, about staff who do not master the Swedish language, about actors who engage in financial crimes and even about activities related to extremism. At the same time, municipalities report that the possibilities for transparency and action are almost non-existent. That is unacceptable. We can't have that. Our children's learning and links to extremism cannot belong together in the same sense, whether it be educational care or our school system as a whole. The fact that educational activities are carried out elsewhere with major shortcomings risks cementing the class society and making the school's compensatory tasks more difficult. We know that the conditions that our children will have in the first few years are crucial for further development. Research shows that children who have attended a high-quality preschool with a focus on learning are better prepared for school, have better language skills and actually do better in life. This applies especially to children who come from tough growing-up conditions. The study on recreation centres and educational care notes that the differences between preschool and educational care have increased as the role of preschool in the school system has been strengthened and clarified, which means that children in educational care are at risk of being given increasingly inferior conditions compared to children in preschool. In order to create good conditions for children's development and learning, all parts of the school system and other educational activities must be of good quality. Madam President, I would like The legislative changes now proposed include clearer and more stringent requirements for educational care. The Government wants to strengthen the link between educational care and education in the school system and proposes that a new requirement be included in the Education Act for educational care to prepare children for education in the school system. This applies not least to the focus on strengthening language, which is an important factor for continuing learning and education in the school system. The activities will also, in cooperation with homes, promote children's comprehensive personal development to active, creative, competent and responsible individuals and citizens. Today, for example, there are no demands for development discussions within educational care. Therefore, the government proposes legal requirements for cooperation with the home that correspond to what is available at preschool. The head of the educational care is also proposed to be obliged to ensure that children in need of special support are given it in their development. In addition, the Government proposes that the staff should be given the opportunity for continuous competence development, a requirement that has been present in preschool but which has been lacking in educational care. Each principal shall also systematically and continuously plan, monitor, develop and evaluate the operations. In addition, it is proposed that, following an application, a municipality should examine whether an individual should be approved as a principal. If the activity is to be conducted where a person aged 15 or over is registered in the register, it is proposed that he or she present an extract from the register. A person offered a job in educational care must also present an extract from the police register. The extract shall not be more than one year old. Any person who has not presented such an extract may not be engaged, engaged or received in the activity. A check of a record extract shall be documented by a record that the extract has been presented. The requirement is that children's right to security must come first but be designed in a way that also takes into account individuals' right to privacy. The survey carried out shows that there are misleading actors in educational care and that, despite serious shortcomings, they can continue to operate. Therefore, the Government proposes requirements for suitability assessments. It is a matter of excerpts from the police's load register, but also of municipalities having to cooperate with the police, the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Enforcement Authority when assessing the suitability of an actor. The approval of a principal also requires that the activities are carried out in groups with an appropriate composition and size in appropriate premises and that the operator has the necessary training for the care. Madam President, I would like By ensuring all children's rights to learning, security and care, children are given better opportunities to pass school, and at the same time we are making an important effort for equality. A society is best judged on the basis of the opportunities we give our children, so let us remind ourselves that it is perhaps the most important task of politics to create a level playing field for all children and their right to reach their full potential. We Social Democrats support the overall proposal of the Committee on Education, Youth, Education and the Media, but we call for the approval of reservation 13 under paragraph 8 on documentation of records, because we believe that the Government's proposal is well balanced between the need for documentation and the integrity of the individual. We do not believe that there is a need for an announcement that, in addition to being presented, an extract from the load register also needs to be archived.
i-9FxpFrvHePvhM48sS7FM3B	Madam President, I would like Today we have to deal with a matter that affects barely 10 000 children. However, this does not make it any less important. On the contrary, it is important that we as a legislative assembly do not forget one child. In Sweden, every child's right to the Swedish language must be guaranteed. There is no other way for us to ensure their access to Swedish society. It must be a promise to every adult child that no child should be left out, either during his first year of life or later. Therefore, requirements for good Swedish knowledge of an individual principal or the staff who will work in the educational activities must always be taken into account when granting permits. If we cannot ensure this kind of requirement, which should in fact be regarded as quite fundamental, we cannot expect every child who then comes to primary school to actually know Swedish. We know that the quality of many of the activities is lacking today, sometimes consciously but often due to mistakes, poor planning or simply a lack of support from the authorities. When it comes to educational care, it is today our 290 municipalities that decide on permit granting and carry out review of individual principals, although the municipalities themselves feel that this is uncertain and that the requirements should be tightened up. There is therefore no equivalence to be talked about. While the Social Democrats and the Government believe that the competence should already exist with the municipalities, since they are carrying out this type of licensing and review of preschools today, the municipalities believe that this activity is already lacking. It is clear that the system as it stands today does not work, and this makes it incomprehensible that the government does not prefer that the School Inspectorate is in charge of all licensing and scrutiny. We also know that the inquiry into recreation centres and educational care, whose work forms the basis of this proposal, points to major shortcomings in the operation. There are shortcomings in Swedish knowledge, and there is a risk of secular elements. Yet they refuse to transfer responsibility to the School Inspectorate. I would therefore like to support Amendment No 15, where we Moderates both understand this and propose that it be done. Madam President, I would like This report contains 16 reservations. One of them stands out especially. The Moderates and a majority of the committee want to change the current legislation so that an excerpt from the load register when applying for teaching care is documented and not just presented. So it should not be possible to wave a piece of paper on one occasion and then have children's activities. No – the legislation must, of course, put the child's safety first. Therefore, extracts from the load register must always be registered at the time of application. So the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Left Party and the Green Party are saying no to this today. They feel that it is better to protect the integrity of the adult rather than the safety of the many children. We Moderates would really like to go even further and review the legislation to ensure that extracts from the register can be requested more than once during a job or when you are authorised to operate. People who carry out or work in some form of schooling often stay for a long time at their place of work, and since the courts today have no obligation to inform the employer of any judgments at all, it must be possible for an employer to request extracts from the register every three or perhaps every five years. Now we have to decide that it should at least be registered once. But this is what the parties mentioned are saying no to. If it is because of naivety or simply not understanding how important it is to keep track of who has access to our children, I do not know. Perhaps you have bullheadedly painted yourself into a corner that you now refuse to leave. I am not looking forward to the day when the government will have to prove to itself that we were right.
i-Sy78yfLfk8m77cCypKMezV	Madam President, I would like The proposals in the bill that we are debating today are welcome. It is gratifying that the Government does not seem to adopt the proposal for a ban on educational care, something that has been mentioned in the past. As far as the previous discussions on compulsory preschools are concerned, which would seriously affect educational care, it is a little worse. But I suppose we'll have to hold those discussions until we debate the Preschool Bill for more children. I note, however, that the government's policy, where educational care is slowly phased out and preschools are moving towards becoming increasingly compulsory, is a red thread. If that were the case, it would severely restrict the choice of guardians for their children. The Swedish Democrats defend freedom of choice and have for a long time been pushing for the issue of educational care to be strengthened and developed. We therefore welcome several of the proposals put forward by the proposal, but we also see that they can be further developed and actually be even better. The Government emphasises that reviews and studies suggest that there is a risk that children in educational care are not always given an activity that stimulates development and learning – or prepares them for continued learning. However, it should be said that most children in educational care are offered a good activity where they are given care and security and thus also the prerequisites for learning and developing. I myself spent a period in the field of educational care. My mother's name was Barbro. There was a preschool not too far from where I lived, but as our family situation looked at the time, the educational care was the best option for us. My father was confined to a wheelchair, but he was also completely blind. He chose to work on broadcasting local radios, and then he worked extra in his spare time as an on-call fellow human being over the phone. There were two jobs that suited well for his unique conditions because he could then use his most important tool, namely his voice. But making sure I came to preschool was much harder for him to solve. Without educational care, our family situation would have been considerably more difficult to deal with. My mother worked in other places with times that didn't work well with the alternatives that were available in preschool then. This is perhaps a bit of a debauchery, but I would like to emphasise once again the importance of freedom of choice and that each family is unique with unique conditions and unique needs. However, as has been mentioned, some activities fail to support and stimulate children's play, creativity and language development. It is also explained in the documentation that there are variations in the staff's opportunities for ongoing competence development and reflection. Surveys show that in educational care there are some activities that have major shortcomings and that there is a great variety of quality. According to the study, there is a risk that children in educational care will be given increasingly inferior conditions in relation to children in preschool. Against this background, the investigation concludes that the rules governing educational care are vague and inadequate. The Swedish Democrats do not disagree with those conclusions. That is why we welcome the bill. But as a party we see other possible ways forward, unlike the government. We do not understand that the government considers it interesting to create better conditions for educational care so that it will achieve the same goal and thus preserve freedom of choice while maintaining quality regardless of care options. For example, the Swedish Democrats propose that the general advice issued by the Swedish National Agency for Education should be converted into regulations. In this way, we ensure that educational care is of the same quality, while at the same time the less serious actors, who still exist, will have to either improve their activities or phase it out. This request can be found in the Swedish Democrats' reservation number 1. And, as you know, it is a so-called reservation precisely because a majority of the committee does not support the proposal. A majority of the committee therefore does not want there to be clearer guidelines for the educational care to be taken into account. It's interesting again. The bill is called Strengthened Quality and Equivalence in Educational Care. But on a concrete and essentially non-political proposal to establish national guidelines for educational care, which is also presented as a solution in one of the investigations in the bill, they say no. The question comes back again: Do you really want to strengthen educational care? Or is it not really the case that changing the requirements slowly but surely makes it necessary to phase it out and move increasingly towards compulsory preschools? I would therefore like to give the government and the other parties the opportunity to show that they really want to strengthen the quality and conditions of educational care in reality when we now go to decisions on this issue, not just on paper. Madam President, I would like I therefore support the Swedish Democrats' reservation number 1, Overall on educational care and the content of the activity. Pedagogical care is an important alternative to preschool, but despite this, it is not at all observed to the same extent. The starting point, as others have also mentioned, should always be the best of the child. Not all children are ready to meet the outside world at the age of one, for example, in a larger group of children with limited attention. Therefore, educational care alongside preschool or home stay is a very important option for maintaining the freedom of choice for each child. It is our view that the government must therefore actively work to create improved conditions for this activity, but also to ensure that the form of care is given improved opportunities to remain as an available alternative for those families who so desire. Before closing, I would like to briefly mention a few more of the proposals raised by the Swedish Democrats in their accompanying motion. Among other things, approval testing must be carried out proactively for those who have a leading position or otherwise have a controlling influence on the business. Excerpts from registers other than principals shall also apply to individuals aged 15 or over who are permanently present at the place where the educational activities are carried out. The principals and staff in educational care must be certified in Swedish, and the activities must be conducted in Swedish, except for national minority languages. Finally, responsibility for the control of educational care must be taken over by the School Inspectorate.
i-Qxt7QWfQsaPwveFigkMnKk	Madam President, I would like It is an important activity that we are discussing today, namely the educational care. Previously it was a business that had a large uptake in Sweden. That was 130,000 in the '90s. Now there are about 10,000 children in the business. Today, activities are not as broad as they used to be. On the other hand, in some areas it still has a significant uptake, not least in those areas, including Malmö, where growing-up conditions are particularly difficult and access to the Swedish language is low. It is therefore important for us today to increase the requirements regarding the quality of the activities to be given to children, access to the Swedish language, to prepare for school and so on. When preschools have gradually developed to become more and more educational activities, it is important that educational care is included. Many people in this House today have taken part in educational care. I can also say that Ingrid who took care of me was not very good in Swedish! But there were natural reasons for that because I grew up in Denmark. It could be okay there. However, it is a huge problem that many children in today's Sweden grow up without good conditions for access to the Swedish language. Then it is good that the rules are strengthened. In addition to the Swedish language, it is also a question of the quality of childcare in general. Of course, no matter where you grow up and what kind of care you get, it should be good. When we as a society have said that there are different ways that are allowed to take care of your child, it is clear that we must ensure that the quality is high. It's supposed to be a safe upbringing for the baby. That is why the Center Party and I are pleased that register control and quality requirements are being strengthened. At the same time, we broaden the rules for who is to be checked in the registers before you can be allowed to be part of the educational care. It's really important. It is also important that we ensure that there are conditions for always following up. In order to obtain continued approval, the municipality, which is to exercise the permit control, must know by checking the register that you are still not convicted. Such controls are extremely important and we must ensure that they actually work. As previous speakers have said, it is not always the case that municipalities live up to their mission. Nor does the School Inspectorate always do that. My and the Center Party's belief that it would be better if the School Inspectorate took over another area and had even less time to focus on the school assignment is not as big as one could have wished. Therefore, we still believe that it is good that municipalities have knowledge of local conditions and the individuals that exist within this type of activity. Schools are often large organizations, but they are often individuals here. We believe that municipalities are better placed to deal with these issues. We are happy to continue the discussion on how we continue to improve control. Not only are the rules good, but there should also be enforcement of the rules. Madam President, I would like It is good that there are many discussions about how the educational care can be improved. It is a first step, and we are pleased that it has become better order. There are certainly conditions for examining whether things can get even better forward. As the Malmöbo I am, I am pleased that we ensure that children in Malmö's most vulnerable areas can take part in a good and quality-assured business during their childhood.
i-2AEfw57CfdHbEUTReDraRR	Madam President, I would like We in the Left Party are very happy that the government has finally come up with a bill on educational care. On the whole, we support a great deal in this proposal. However, before I forget, I would like to endorse our reservation number 5. We think it is positive that the government is proposing legislation on register control. We think it is a good thing to clarify the regulation of educational care. It should be borne in mind that even if there are a few children in the whole group of children, there are about 1,440 activities in the educational care that are conducted around the country, of which approximately half are private and half are municipal. The aim of establishing educational care was initially to bring in other forms and types of childcare, but to have it with public funding. Pedagogic care, as I said, is not a form of schooling. Thus, there is no requirement for the business to follow the curriculum, although the aim has been to start from the same. There are also no requirements as to what training the staff in the educational care should have. Although there are activities that have done well, we have seen irregularities in recent years, mainly among private operators. This bill aims to address these problems. The municipalities today find it difficult to make demands and follow up their activities because the law is weak and very unclear. The Left Party believes that the need for flexible childcare arrangements such as day care providers should not be used to start and operate of rather dubious quality, which in many cases is also profitable. That is why we believe that educational care and opportunities to pursue it in company form should be abolished. To this we would like to see clearer legislation on quality requirements for educational care. Madam President, I would like I see the importance of giving all children the opportunity to attend preschool in order to develop their full potential. However, as long as the educational care remains as an operating form, the requirements must be increased and increased. Arguments such as the fact that it would be too expensive to carry out the activities with educationally trained staff do not hold up. We in the Left Party are not willing to compromise on children's right to good education. In its report "Strengthening the quality and equivalence of leisure and educational care", the study on leisure and educational care proposed a sharper wording on the level of education of staff in educational care. That is why we find it sad that in today's bill there is no clear requirement as to what training the staff should have. We believe that there must be a requirement that in educational care there should be staff with such training and experience that children's development and learning are promoted and that children are prepared for further learning. In its referral to the inquiry, the trade union Kommunal stated that it should be a requirement that day-care workers have at least one child-career training. This, together with the introduction of transitional rules that include the possibility of validation and professional development within, for example, universities of applied sciences, could significantly improve the quality of educational care. We in the Left Party believe that Kommunal is absolutely right in this case. Madam President, I would like The Government proposes in the bill that new individual principals should be examined for suitability. We believe that this is quite correct, but we believe that this measure is not sufficient to protect children from abuses that we know already exist today. The shortcomings of the proposal include the fact that the government does not take into account all the 1 440 operators already authorised. How do we ensure that these actors are also tested in the future? If developments continue as in recent years, i.e. the number of units of educational care is reduced, we can assume that there will not be as many activities as aptitude testing. This is why we believe that all educational care activities need to be assessed, not just those that are new. As several consultation bodies have stated, clarification must be given as to who is to be subject to the ownership and management review. Today, it is not specified who it is. We believe that the government must therefore come back with a proposal specifying precisely which persons and functions are linked to the individual activities to be subject to the ownership and management review.
i-7srMAybnYYdWxneqE2Gk9g	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by calling for the Christian Democrats' reservation 2 to offer family day-care centres in all the municipalities of the country and to increase the number of family day-care centres throughout the country. I was born in Värmland, and when I was a little girl, I went to see a day mom named Lena. Her husband Kenneth worked at the recreation centre nearby, and when their own children My, Melanie and Ulf went to school it was not only Lena who kept us daychildren company but also the little green undulate Isak and the family's golden retriever Whoppy. I have a lot of good memories from this time. I remember the games we played, I remember the farm where we played the games and I remember our Friday walks to Ica. For it was that if we had behaved during the week we went to Ica on Friday and bought Friday candy. Order and order, money on Friday was what was at Lena's house. I am very grateful for the freedom of choice that existed for my parents when I was little and for choosing a childcare option where we were taught to treat each other with respect and where there was also time and security for us children. Unfortunately, it is not as easy to find a daymaid or a family day home today. As we have heard in the debate, there were 130 000 children in family day-care centres in the 1990s. Today there are not even 10,000. There has been a drastic decline in the last 30 years. This is not just a matter of pre-school expansion. The municipalities have laid off their family day-care centres, and today's regulations make municipal politicians or school bureaucrats in the municipal corridors difficult for economic or ideological reasons for family day-care homes to operate. This is done, for example, by imposing the same tough demands on the opening hours of the individual day mother as they do at the municipality's preschools. It could also be a question of providing insufficient information to parents about the freedom of choice that actually exists. This has caused many mothers to give up. As a result, fewer and fewer children have the opportunity to stay in family day-care centres. Unfortunately, there are radical ideological forces trying to put an end to family day care. The report by the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy, whose report Strengthening the quality and equivalence of leisure and educational facilities is unfortunately an example of this. After all, the investigation proposed a stop to establishment, a ban, for new day-mammas and family day-care centres. It was a hard blow to the face of all the parents who are worried about the large groups of children in preschool and who want to be able to choose another option. It was an attack on parents' right to choose, and it was welcomed by leading social democrats in my own municipality of Stockholm, for example. It was claimed from the investigation that a sufficient degree of preparation of children for further learning is not possible today. It was said that a parallel system is out of time and unreasonable. But the truth is, of course, that what little children need most is love, care, play and respect, and being connected to an adult who sees, hears and confirms – someone who can give the children that safe start in life that we all need. Most of us understand that small children need small contexts and that Sweden's families with children would be deprived of an important alternative if family day-care centres were to disappear. For some, the dream of uniformity stands in the way of that realization. Freedom of choice and the power of parents over everyday life are sacrificed in the name of equality, all so that the state can crush all children in one form. It's a family hostile policy. Madam President, I would like In the light of what I have just said, it is a good thing that the radical proposal for a ban on establishment is not being proposed in the bill that is on the table today, but there is still cause for concern. This is how the government itself writes in its proposal: The proposal does not allow any new individual or municipal activities to start. This proposal aims to achieve the same objective as the proposals made by the government. ..................................................... Of course, this is very serious. Under no circumstances should an end to new family day-care centres be the practical consequence of the proposals we are debating today. Of course, it is reasonable for all children, regardless of the form of childcare, to have the opportunity to develop in the Swedish language, but it is clear that there is a risk that the number of family day-care centres will decrease further if there are now to be additional demands for family day-care centres to be increasingly similar to preschools. It is clear that there is a risk that the number of family day-care centres will be further reduced if we continue to burden the burden borne by day-care mothers in the form of new, far-reaching documentation requirements and new formal requirements. At all costs, the Christian Democrats want to avoid a situation in which daywives are knocked out and freedom of choice for the family is reduced. We are proposing here today a day-to-day guarantee, as we might call it, thus an obligation for municipalities to offer family day-care centres to those parents who so desire. We also propose a mapping of family day-care centres and their conditions in order to increase the availability of family day-care centres. More than 30 years have passed since I joined my day mother Lena. Now I am a father myself, and I want nothing more than to be able to give my child, my son, a safe start in life. I want to be able to choose a mother-in-law for him, and I want that choice to exist for others in the future. I therefore have an appeal to all parties in here. Let us carefully monitor the impact of today's decisions on family day-care centres, let us strengthen family day-care centres so that they can become more and let us defend family freedom of choice.
i-QtFcAWWMhocQcj6gZ9G4oN	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 3. This debate is about educational care or, as has been said in general, daywives. I remember growing up and several of my friends went to day moms. It was a time when a lot of people did it – around 130 000 I think it was in the mid-90s. Today there are not nearly as many, Madam President. It is not even 10 000 children who go to day-mammas today, so it is a business that has changed a lot. It is also not true that the children who go there and that activity are fully covered by the governance documents that exist, but they should be guiding, as well as the curriculum for preschools from 2018. Now we see in a series of reviews that there are some problems. Of course, there are a lot of day moms and family day-care centres that are great, which are super involved and where the children have a safe environment and develop very well. But there are also examples that are rather ominous. Not least, it is very important for language development and language learning that the people who work with this have good knowledge of Swedish. That is what the reservations of the Moderates and Liberals, to whom I call for approval, are about. We know that childhood doesn't replay. It may sound like a cliché, but it's true. Having a good and safe upbringing, especially in the first few years of life, is extremely important for life. It was mentioned in an earlier speech, examples of ecocrime, links to extremism, language shortages, and so on. However, it would be possible to deal with these problems if we had more transparency. That is the problem, that these activities are often not sufficiently transparent. Madam President, I would like The government has made a number of proposals. F mug The Liberals' side supports having clearer requirements for family day-care centres to prepare children for school, to cooperate more with homes, to be obliged, for example, to provide special support if a child needs it, and also for the municipality to try that the organiser is suitable. Of course, excerpts from the load register and such things should be documented, as the majority in committee has supported.
i-4HZ58sytPRYB8kV6N2UoXJ	Madam President, I would like I never went to kindergarten, but I always wanted to go there. Although I loved collecting chestnuts in the chestnut park and thought it was great fun when my day mom Annika laid us on the kitchen table and made nice plaster masks I always longed to go to kindergarten. Partly, of course, because the last thing you want to be when you're five years old is little Annika, partly because in that little context I was safe but I didn't get attached. I didn't have playmates. There were only five children and one adult. Although many have rosy memories of their day mother's time, there are still great advantages in those contexts with a little more friends and a few more adults to see if you click with and connect to. Madam President, I would like I didn't go to kindergarten, and neither do my kids. In fact, no children today go to kindergarten. Dagis doesn't exist. We have preschools with curriculum and high demands for educated preschool teachers with a higher education course of three years or more. The difference between the day-care activities I attended and the day-care facility I longed for was much smaller than the difference between today's preschool and what is now called educational care. There is also a difference between the family day care centre of the time – day care – and a great deal of what exists today, which is actually more similar to the day care centre of the day and which is not conducted at all in the small home environment. We see tendencies towards the development of a kind of B preschool – kindergarten could perhaps be called it – without the same requirement to follow the curriculum and without the same requirement for trained preschool staff. It worries me. Madam President, I would like There are many important proposals that are now coming forward. Investigator Linda Eskilsson, who is an environmental partisan municipal councillor in Uppsala, has done a thorough review of what the business looks like today. It shows serious shortcomings– not in everyone, of course, but enough to have to pull their ears and ensure that development does not continue in an unwanted direction. All children need access to the educational preparation that we know equips children well to pass school, for there is nothing more important than schooling as a child. We must also ensure that our children are safe where they are. If there is educational care in someone's home where there are other people, it should be obvious that all of the persons of criminal age are checked for records. This proposal will mean it for new activities, but to the extent that there is currently educational care at the home of someone who has been convicted of serious crimes, we do not know. That does not change today's proposal. That is why I would like to support Amendment No 8. I believe that the test to be carried out on new activities must also be carried out on existing activities. It is about the right of all children to a safe upbringing and to a quality business. Madam President, I would like Several have been concerned with the value of time, security and the small group of children. It is important that we all take note of this. The children's groups in preschool are too large today. They go beyond the guidelines that we laid down last parliamentary term, when Gustav Fridolin was Minister of Education. In a great many municipalities, they are far exceeded. I would like to propose an alternative to the Christian Democrats' proposals. Instead, let us agree to invest in preschool, to provide sufficient resources to have the small groups of children in whom we know young children are doing best. That's what it takes. We in the Green Party have proposed an equivalence grant for preschool – more for everyone and most where it is needed best. I believe that we agree that there are major societal challenges and that some children are particularly affected and have tougher growing-up conditions. They need even more educated preschool teachers and high-quality educational activities to prepare them for school. Today it is the opposite. We have heard several people testify that today it is often the children who have the greatest needs that go into educational care, who have lower demands on educational activities. They also attend preschools more often with teachers and nurseries with lower education. We need to remedy this. I hope that, after today's debate, there can be a broad consensus to invest heavily in preschool and small children's groups.
i-HNB683vpPtUK9uFufro9rp	Madam President, I would like It just appeared that it would be an alternative to the Christian Democrats' proposal to invest in smaller groups of children in preschool. Nothing could be more wrong. The aim of Christian Democrats' policy when it comes to childcare is precisely to create time for children. Whether you choose a day-mom – a family day-care home – or a preschool, there should be time for the children. Through our cooperation with the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats, we in the Christian Democrats have given money to smaller groups of children in preschool. It's money that makes a difference this year. But we want to move on with this. We want to introduce a maximum ceiling for groups of young children of 12 children. Is the Green Party prepared to support the Christian Democrats when it comes to such a maximum ceiling?
i-GBioeFBECFmmx3aZ2un3o6	Madam President, I would like We in the Green Party have worked in several ways to reduce the size of children's groups. Among other things, we commissioned the Swedish National Agency for Education to introduce guidelines for the size of children's groups based on the knowledge that exists about what children need to develop in the best way. And we know that especially small children feel best in smaller groups. We also introduced a state grant for the reduction of children's groups. We simply ensured that municipalities that took measures to reduce the size of children's groups received additional funding for this. Unfortunately, after a number of years of this regulatory framework, we saw that there were some creative solutions, let us call it, which perhaps did not achieve the purpose of it. It also led to a rather large bureaucracy and, above all, smaller municipalities could not successfully benefit from State aid. I and the Green Party have come to the conclusion that there is, instead, a need for more general support for pre-school education, a so-called equivalence grant for pre-school which, in the same way as the equivalence grant for school, goes out to all principals and which does not lead in the same way to the administrative burden. We have also said before that if we do not see sufficient results, we are prepared to consider sharp decisions on the size of children's groups. Experience from other areas of setting that type of maximum ceiling is doubtful. On the contrary, it sometimes leads to a minimum level.
i-D2dCn1sjuwMDnBmSLcbfZ6	Madam President, I would like Annika Hirvonen mentions the equivalence allowance and that the investments in smaller children's groups in preschool should primarily be made via the equivalence grant. But don't all children need time to be seen? Do children in vulnerable areas really need smaller groups of children than children in other areas? I don't have that view of children. I think that all children need good pupil health, regardless of which socio-economic area they come from. All children also need groups of young children, regardless of their area of origin. I think the Green Party is thinking a little wrong here. Smaller groups of children need to be achieved in other ways. It is sad that the Green Party is not prepared to join the Christian Democrats in calling for a maximum ceiling for the groups of young children. Nevertheless, I feel that there is a desire to reduce the size of children's groups, and that is a positive thing. Could Annika Hirvonen promise that we can work together to ensure that parents will continue to have the right to choose the alternatives available in childcare? We are prepared to meet you in the work of smaller groups of children. We are prepared to go further than the Green Party. But will the Green Party stand up for parents' right to choose the form of childcare that they feel can give children the best and safest start in life?
i-QBsf3bUmB9MnG2xZXt2LAP	Madam President, I would like What is central to the Green Party in terms of education and preparation for education for young children is the quality of the activities of the children. Above all, we have a children's perspective here, rather than a family or parental perspective. We agree that all children need a safe environment and that children's groups cannot be as large as they are in many places today. Having said that, we also know that children who, for example, do not have Swedish as their mother tongue and children who come from growing up conditions where there are different social challenges and problems have a greater need for well-trained staff in preschool. That is why it is important that we change the situation today. The children most in need have fewer preschool teachers and even fewer educated children's nurses. It is therefore crucial that we strengthen all preschools but above all those where children have the greatest need.
