i-D1WoRPPDAcHG3GxJbiaerG	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating aviation. This is a report which contains a large number of motions from the general period of exercise and a total of 120 requests from the various parties. Of course, we in the Left Party have also contributed to this. Flying in the world has increased sharply and thus also emissions from the world's aeronautics industry. Over the last 20 years, emissions from the world's aviation industry have more than doubled. Although we have now had a pandemic for a year and a half when emissions have gone down, we can probably expect a continued increase in flight and emissions. It is not sustainable from a climate perspective. We in the Left Party believe that aviation, like all other modes of transport, must take on its climate responsibility and quickly reduce its emissions. And it needs to be done with technology development in terms of fuel, electrification and so on, but of course also with reduced flying. We need to fly less and transport ourselves in other ways over longer distances, mainly by train. Digital meetings have also gained a big boost now during the pandemic. We in the Left Party believe that the government is doing too little to reduce emissions from the aviation industry. I would like to mention some of the proposals that we have put forward and of which we are absolutely convinced would contribute to a significant reduction in emissions from the aviation industry. One example is to remove the tax exemption on aviation fuel. Today, only we in Sweden subsidise flights with just over SEK 8 billion per year. Most of this is that aviation does not pay taxes on the fuel that is being pumped into aircraft. We also need to review the reduction in VAT on flights. We know that international flights are entirely VAT-free, and domestic flights pay the lowest VAT. It's not really sustainable. VAT could be higher. We also need to remove subsidies for airports except for those airports that are justified for reasons of preparedness and regional policy. Most of the airport subsidies that we have in Sweden today need to be removed. We in the Left Party welcomed the aviation tax imposed by the previous government. We believe it can be developed so that we get a progressive flight tax. By this we mean that the air tax will increase with the number of flights. For flight number 3, the flight tax is a little higher, and for flight number 5 and number 10 it increases even more. We know that flying is very strongly related to income. Rich people fly much more than middle- and low-income people. The cut in Sweden is a flight per year, but the tenth that has the highest income flies a lot more and thus puts a lot more strain on the climate. With a flight tax that is progressive, those who burden the climate most can also be involved in contributing the most. Of course, we need to invest in what is alternative to aviation, not least rail. We need to expand rail capacity and we need to upgrade the railways that we have today. We need to invest more in broadband and IT. As I mentioned earlier, a large part of domestic aviation can be replaced by digital meetings. That is something we have learned, not least now during the pandemic. To the extent that it works, we also think it is good to invest in sustainable biofuels and electrified aircraft. Regrettably, electrified aircraft are in the distant future and will never, I would say, be able to fully replace the train in terms of the capacity to transport many people over long distances. And biofuels have the limitation that the substrate itself, the raw material, exists to a limited extent. We cannot start cutting down forests to produce fuel for aviation, so it must be production that is completely sustainable and in line with our biodiversity objectives. We also believe that we can dismantle a number of airports around Sweden that are simply not needed. We can start with Bromma airport here in Stockholm. There I am a little surprised that the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats continue to work so hard to keep Bromma airport open at all costs. We have investigations and evidence that indicate that even after the pandemic Bromma will not recover to the levels that were previously. The recovery that still takes place can Arlanda Airport accommodate, and some of the previous Bromma flights can be replaced by trains and digital meetings respectively. Yet on several occasions the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats have impressed on Bromma airport to continue to be open. What a huge loss of opportunity that is for Stockholm! Here, a completely new sustainable neighbourhood could be built with 30 000 - 40 000 new homes and thousands of new jobs. And now I turn specifically to the Moderates: If you are to keep an airport open where there is no evidence, the state needs to go in with large subsidies. It takes money from taxpayers just to keep the airport open. This is exactly what we have done with Bromma. Giant amounts of money have gone to Bromma now during the pandemic and even before the pandemic. Tax money will continue to roll to Bromma just to keep the airport open – an airport that can easily be replaced by Arlanda and alternative travel patterns. To conclude, Mr President, we have seen a sharp drop in flying during the pandemic. We have seen that the aviation industry has been under severe pressure. But it is not just the aviation industry that has been hard pressed during the pandemic, but the whole transport sector. If we look at the government's actions during the pandemic, we see clearly that the aviation industry is the industry that has received the most public support from the government. A total of SEK 16 billion has been pumped into Swedavia, to keep airports open and so on, during the pandemic. You can look at the corresponding figure for the railway industry, if you count all the Corona subsidies. That's barely $2 billion. So the plane has received eight times more than the train during the pandemic, and that is something that I consider to be distorted in the government's corona management. That simply cannot go on. Mr President, I would like to I am, of course, behind all the left-wing reservations, but I would particularly like to call for the approval of reservation number 21, which is about reducing the climate impact of aviation.
i-49UePgPxKuaXH8GzbjLMRv	Mr President, I would like to We are meeting again to debate aviation issues, as we did a year ago. A year ago, however, we were in the midst of a burning pandemic. The world's airplanes were more or less on the plate, and the future did not look very bright for any of us, but even less for aviation. Here in Sweden we were also in a situation where the Social Democrats had just had a quick investigation into the closure of Bromma airport. And they collaborated with a direct anti-aircraft party. In fact, it was rather dark prospects if we are to be completely honest. Fortunately, after this debate last year, this wise House voted through our proposal not to close Bromma airport until we had investigated the future of Arlanda. Now, Mr President, the pandemic is finally starting to let go of its grip on the world, and aviation has got the kick-start that it so badly needs. Furthermore, we can see that the decline in aviation is much faster than the forecasts made a year ago. This says a lot about us not being so sure when we condemn people's power, ability and willingness to do good things for the world. For this, we need a globalised world in which we can move, and that is the easiest thing to do with aviation. This takes me on to other good things that are happening right now in the environment and climate area. During the pandemic, work on a better flight has not stopped. Progress is progressing. Just a few weeks ago, some of my party colleagues from the Moderates in West Sweden and Gothenburg were flying the first electric airplanes. A year ago we stood here talking about the electric flight as the future. Today, the electric flight is already here. It's up in the air and flying. Sweden needs a policy that, within the framework of the decision on a fossil-free Sweden 2050, supports the development towards a fossil-free flight through a sustainable airlift. Technological developments are moving so fast right now that the government has not followed up or met up with what is currently happening in research and innovation, especially in the field of electric aviation. The Moderates want Sweden to take on the leadership shirt and support the development of technology by daring to make decisions that are long-term climate-smart and socio-economically profitable. The Moderates want to see a sustainable airlift, which requires political decisions that ultimately ensure that a market emerges with good access to electricity at our airports and with a domestic sustainable biofuel production. Today, there is a lack of a thorough strategy for the long-term development of aviation. Mr President, I would like to What happens to the government's Bromma investigation, we don't know yet. This question, like many other important questions, is being prepared in the Government Office. Something tells me that the government does not really know what they want to do with this investigation. This may be one of the reasons why the government called an investigator as late as February to investigate Arlanda's future. It came a bit like a flash from the clear sky, because this cooperation government had forgotten to cooperate with other parties. The rest of us found out about this via a press release and a flash in our phones. What will become of this investigation we do not know yet. We Moderates would have investigated the issue of Arlanda and Bromma first and then made a possible decision as a consequence of that investigation. But we're not Social Democrats. We in the Moderates usually know what we are doing before we execute our decisions. The mess that the Social Democrats and their cooperation parties have made in Flygsverige will take years to sort out. It will also take years to build confidence in Swedish aviation policy and Swedish politics in general again, as it has been such a confusion when it comes to political decisions in recent years. Air travel is important for jobs, security and growth throughout the country. In a small, sparsely populated country like ours, with long distances and large exports, it provides an opportunity for us to quickly transport us back and forth across our country but also across the borders of the nation. Air travel is also important for defending the borders of the country. If nothing else, it's important right now when there's actually a war going on in our neighborhood. It always costs money to build infrastructure. It costs a terrible amount of money to build infrastructure. Then it is not very smart to tear down existing infrastructure before we know how we want it in the future and before we know how much we will transport in the future. It's a waste of taxpayers' money. Unfortunately, for many years, Sweden has had a government that does the opposite of what is wise, and we taxpayers have to pay the bill for that. If the new Arlanda investigation will end up in the same office drawer as the Arlanda hearing, the regional airport investigation and the investigation about a rapid resolution of Bromma, we do not know yet. But we Moderates can promise you that after the autumn elections we will take aviation and Swedish infrastructure very seriously. We will protect taxpayers' money, and we will safeguard people's opportunities to develop themselves and to develop our common welfare and the world in which we live. With that, Mr President, I am in favour of reservation 1 by the Moderates on Arlanda and Bromma Airport. After this debate, I'm going to Bromma and fly home to Blekinge.
i-5e6T95hQDHx5XsY4sEqFuk	Mr President, I would like to It is possible to travel to Blekinge in other ways than by plane. As for Bromma Airport, I believe that the Moderates of recent years have been on five announcements that Bromma will remain. An announcement is therefore an invitation to the government to implement that decision. So it is despite Swedavia's evidence that it is perfectly possible to close down Bromma. They even urge us in the government and parliament to make such a decision. What you should remember is that it costs the government a great deal of money if you maintain an airport for which there is no basis. I have tried to find out about how much it costs the state to subsidise the opening of an airport for which there is no basis, namely Bromma. I have not found exact figures, but I would say that it is about hundreds of millions of SEK – a lot of money from taxpayers who could have gone to a better school, better environmental work, improved health care or whatever it may be. I thought, Mr President, that the Moderates were opposed to unnecessary government subsidies. But what is it like, Åsa Coenraads? How much more will the government have to subsidise Bromma airport to keep it open? Is it reasonable to continue the money-blowing to Bromma?
i-JH5deK3zQZuZUcrPBNe3D7	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Jens Holm! All roads carry to Blekinge, but it is much faster to fly from Stockholm than to take the train considering how the infrastructure in this country has been treated by the government that the Left Party has supported for so many years. The flight should be on its own in the long term. Air travel must therefore have the necessary conditions to stand on its own feet, but then one must also have a policy that allows aircraft to develop and stand on their own feet. We do not have that right now as politics has been pursued. In his speech, Jens Holm talks about having only the airports that are needed. Then I wonder which airports the Left Party thinks are not needed in Sweden and which parts of the country the Left Party believes do not need to develop because they themselves live in Stockholm, take the train there and have plenty of free time to do this. We do not have the others who are trying to develop Sweden and get the whole of Sweden to live.
i-8br3sVxUiT2WNw54i5MYcB	Mr President, I would like to As far as the infrastructure in Sweden is concerned, it is a bit strange when Åsa Coenraads says that it is underdeveloped, while the Moderates are opposed to building new main roads. With new main tracks it would be much faster and easier to go down to southern Sweden, to Skåne and to Blekinge. But this is opposed to the Moderates, and I think that is a strange and unfortunate argument. With regard to the closure of airports that are not needed, it is a question of where to get by train in a good way. As I said, we can start by decommissioning Bromma Airport. Mr President, I would like to It is good that Åsa Coenraads says that the airports should be on their own. By this, I think she believes that aviation should finance its own business in the form of fees from airlines when they fly to and from different airports. However, that is exactly what is not happening with Bromma. That's why the government has to go in with hundreds of millions of dollars in public subsidies just to keep this airport open, and that's why the owner and manager Swedavia has come to us and said: Please, give us a mission to phase out this airport! We can accommodate all these flights at Arlanda Airport! Then the Moderates say no. However, they have no answer to the question of how much the State will have to go in and continue to subsidise Bromma airport with. The Moderates must be able to answer that, otherwise I do not think that one is a particularly responsible party.
i-6x2j2GUqqN1ACwfYb1iYXE	Mr President, I would like to We Moderates love infrastructure, but infrastructure consists of several different parts. The flight is a part and the railway is a part of it. V i likes railway as well. We like fast rail, we like good rail and we like rail where the trains arrive on time. Today they don't. This is a problem, which is why we want to prioritise our budget money to patch the railways so that the trains come on time and work for the whole of Sweden. We do not want to make a special high-speed train that benefits three big cities in Sweden but not the rest of the country. Back to your flight. The flight must be on its own – in the long term. But we have just gone through a pandemic, and at the moment a war is raging in Europe. The flight will therefore not be able to make a profit directly, right now. It's gonna take time. Infrastructure costs money and must cost money. But we must provide the conditions for one to be able to bear one's own costs and thus cost the state less money. We do not get those conditions by increasing the fares for passengers. Prices can be lowered for aviation by more people choosing to fly environmentally and climate smart. But then aviation must also be given the opportunity to function all over Sweden. Then we need our regional small airports. We also need Bromma Airport because in a country like Sweden that hopefully wants to grow, even if the Left Party does not believe in a market economy, we need both a large international airport and a functional domestic airport where it is possible to get fast to and back to Stockholm. If the Left Party and Stockholm do not want a functioning infrastructure airport, perhaps we should move the capital elsewhere. Welcome to Blekinge, I say!
i-2pGgD5ART7jcvUyXC9KY4K	Mr President, I would like to Maybe we should think about the location of the capital. There is also a landscape called Skåne. I would like to add from the Swedish Democrats that we support all our reservations, but in order to gain time, I only call for reservation 5 on increased and predictable support for non-governmental airports. Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by congratulating Bromma airport and travellers in Skåne and Västra Götaland. On Monday two new routes started to operate Bromma: Skåneflyg with departures from Kristianstad Österlen Airport and Västflyg which operates Trollhättan Vänersborg Airport. Both companies also offer the traveller to buy all or part of the biofuel journey. Sweden is an elongated country, and the need for efficient transport is great. It is therefore gratifying to see the strong support of a majority of the parliamentary parties to preserve Bromma airport, which is an important point for Swedish domestic aviation. Bromma is simply the whole of Sweden's airport. But there's smok in the cup of joy. While a majority in the Riksdag sends an announcement to the government about Bromma airport conservation, the government chooses to launch another investigation into closing Bromma, less than six months from the presentation of the previous investigation. That's a waste of tax money. This investigation, with the real aim of rapidly closing Bromma, is led by investigator Peter Norman and will be presented on 15 June this year. Given that the pandemic situation ends, it has already been stated that Arlanda cannot receive Bromma's air traffic without huge costs of addition. For the foreseeable future, there is no reason to change the well-functioning concept of an interaction between Bromma and Arlanda, which is why I would prefer to pass the investigation to the trash before it has even been released. Mr President, I would like to Norrland needs Bromma. Skåne needs Bromma. West Sweden needs Bromma. The whole country needs Bromma. Bromma should not be wound up prematurely! The pandemic has had a strong negative impact on aviation. In 2021, the number of passengers was only 29 per cent compared to the number of passengers in 2019. However, we saw a strong increase in the second half of 2021. If we compare January 2019 with January 2022, there were 61 per cent fewer air passengers in 2022. However, compared to January 2021, air travel increased by a total of 224 per cent in January 2022. The flight will recover, but at what rate is unclear. In any case, the fact that the whole country is to live and develop is a matter of course for us, and then it is important to continue to support regional airports. Aid to these airports means that the municipalities and regions which own regional airports do not need to spend money on health care and care to cover the shortfalls of airports arising from the coronapandemine. But it means so much more. It provides better access to skills. This gives the companies in Norrland access to Stockholm in a couple of hours. The differences in travelling from Luleå by plane or from Skövde by train are evened out. When northern Norrland is now receiving investments of over 1 000 billion, it is important that they also have good connections to Stockholm. The flight must be developed, not decommissioned. It is also of the utmost importance that we give greater support to our contingency airports. The traffic volume of these is only 30% against the normal. Not only do they play a social role through fire, ambulance, police and sea rescue, but they are also there in the event of harassment. In view of the development of Russia's war of aggression against Ukraine, we must ensure defence access to important airports. Emergency airports need to be strengthened, and we need to increase the number. The Government's proposal for an extra 100 million is inadequate, and not all airports are included in the aid. There needs to be a round-up here. Mr President, I would like to In order for air traffic to be given the shortest possible route, thereby reducing both fuel costs and emissions, the Swedish Democrats are in favour of Single European Sky. This is a work within the EU that involves a common air traffic management system. When implemented, the benefits are estimated by shorter routes and increased efficiency to be about 10% – and with this also reduced emissions. It also means time gains. Sweden is well ahead in planning, and somewhere between 2030 and 2035 this project is expected to be completed. We also see how the technology in air traffic control is developing in Sweden where Kiruna, Örnsköldsvik and Sundsvall airports are now controlled remotely from Arlanda. This is done, among other things, through a very advanced camera monitoring system, and if the tests take place well, several smaller airports can get this system, which can lead to significant savings. There is much research in the aviation sector, and NASA is currently testing a new supersonic plane that blows the sound wall so quietly that you can fly with supersonic speed over built-up areas. In order to get economy in supersonic flights, there must be the possibility of even flying in supersonic traffic over inhabited areas, and with the nine-metre-long nose on the plane you think you can achieve very discreet noises. However, there is a greater focus on developing new technologies for reducing consumption and cleaner emissions. Swedish Vattenfall, SAS, Shell and Lanzatech will investigate the process of large-scale production of the world's first sustainable synthetic aviation fuel with something called Alcohol to Jet. The trials take place in Sweden. Instead of using newly produced materials for production, synthetic aviation fuel shall be produced from fossil-free electricity and recovered carbon dioxide from district heating. Swedish Heart Aerospace is working tirelessly to complete its electric aircraft for serial production and received last year an American order for 200 electric aircraft from United Airlines and Mesa Air Group. Airbus believes that hydrogen is the future of aviation and will soon start testing with a hydrogen powered engine on its A380 jet aircraft. The company believes that this is the most important step taken on Airbus to launch a new era of hydrogen-powered flights. Mr President, I would like to Having said that, I would like to highlight that the aviation industry believes in the future of aviation. The Swedish Democrats believe in the future of aviation. The flight must be developed, not decommissioned. The people, the business community and the country's development need frequent, accessible, affordable and smooth routes. Work for, not against the development of aviation!
i-3GQZRmtgmGrtp3k9eUcUBq	Mr President, I would like to To believe in the future with new innovations and working methods strengthens work on aviation. The flight is important for the whole of Sweden. There are challenges in a number of areas, but there are also solutions. In my speech, I will dwell very much on aviation as an important place and institution in crisis situations, but also on the role of aviation in the functioning of the whole country. Mr President, I would like to Regional airports are important for connecting the whole country, for commuters, freight, tourism and the tourism industry. During the pandemic, the importance of regional airports has also become even more evident in terms of the need for rapid transport as they facilitate ambulance flights as well as other types of socially important transport. With the tense security policy situation in Europe, aviation will continue to play an important role in preparedness and in fast and efficient transport. Regional airports play an important role here. Regional airports are generally owned by the municipalities and regions where they are located and have been facing economic problems for many years, and in some places they have risked closure. For the Center Party, it is important that the state creates long-term and sustainable operating conditions for non-governmental airports. Sweden's large distance means that we are completely dependent on a working flight and the opportunity for the business community to easily get to other destinations within the country and further out into the world. Regional airports connect Sweden, create jobs and increase tourism and tourism opportunities throughout the country. When the European Commission has previously carried out audits of a number of regional airports receiving State aid, there has been uncertainty about the future of these airports. Against this background, we in the Center Party believe that a profit-sharing model between State-owned Swedavia and regional airports needs to be investigated with a view to strengthening the operational safety of regional airports. The airport review set up by the Government to review, inter alia, the long-term role of the State as a non-state airport support provider is not completed. The government must complete this and, after the investigation, also implement the changes that need to be made in order for us to have a flight across the country. Mr President, I would like to In autumn 2019, the Government commissioned the Swedish Transport Administration to review the system of emergency airports. The system is based on the readiness of a designated airport to receive public and emergency air transport all year round and at any time of the day. Compensation is paid from the State to ensure on-call services at the designated airports. In general, regional airports provide a wide range of social services, such as sea rescue, fire-watching and various government transports. Since the turn of 2020/ 21, the number of standby airports has been temporarily increased due to the pandemic following a petition from the Swedish Municipalities and Regions. It is extremely important precisely with emergency airports throughout the country. The Coronapendem has, and will continue to have, major consequences for the transport and aviation sectors as well as for the rest of society at large. Many regulations have been put under heavy pressure, and we can see that this crisis has put its finger on some shortcomings that we now need to work on in order to be able to stand stronger in the face of future serious disruptions. Crises come in various forms and shapes, and all we can do is learn from them and equip for the next. Against this background, we would like to stress the importance of ensuring the functionality and robustness of regional airports in terms of socially critical functions even when regular air traffic is down in the event of a crisis. Mr President, I would like to The principle of chasing emissions and not transport also applies to aviation, because it is not the flight itself that is the problem but the emissions. In order to increase the pace of change in the aviation industry, measures are needed to increase the use of bio-jet fuel combined with an investment in research and innovation to make aviation more energy efficient and electrified. The Center Party also believes that Swedavia should review increased opportunities for discounts for take-off and landing for the best plan and that state companies and authorities should make demands and climate compensation for their business trips. In order to facilitate the transition, the State must also assume its responsibilities and contribute. Mr President, I would like to Some parties do not want anything in the air but loathe aviation, despite the fact that the development of renewables is progressing and that the conversion of aviation is also helping to link the country together. It is sad that not all parties in this House realise this. Air transport plays an important role as a means of transport by connecting towns and countries and is a prerequisite for housing and entrepreneurship throughout the country. The Center Party also wants to point out that aviation accounts for a small part of Sweden's greenhouse gas emissions and that aircraft are becoming increasingly energy efficient. At the same time, we in the Center Party believe that we need to find systems to make aviation more environmentally friendly, like other modes of transport. We believe that aviation should bear its environmental costs, thus stimulating energy efficiency and the production of renewable fuels. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party believes that the development of electric air transport has a strong bearing on the issue of accessibility throughout the country. With smaller electric aircraft, new routes will emerge that have not been the case with the traditional aircraft fleet. This provides the conditions to make Sweden more accessible and develop rural areas throughout the country. Furthermore, the environmental and climate impact of aviation must be reduced in order to contribute to Sweden's national climate targets and international commitments without risking the accessibility target. The Center Party therefore wants to facilitate the introduction of electric flights in Sweden. Rapid technological developments are taking place in aviation at the moment. Electricity and hybrid flights already exist, as we heard here earlier, and will be on the market within a few years. However, we believe that greater state commitment is needed to exploit the full potential of electric aviation. The aviation strategy adopted by the Government in 2017 deals with electric flights only in summary terms. Furthermore, Sweden currently lacks a political target for electric flights. This would be desirable in order to accelerate the switch to electric aircraft. The Center Party believes that all flights from Swedish airports should be fossil-free by 2040. To this end, it is also important to promote innovative projects in this area such as Electric Air Transport in Sweden, Elise. In order for Sweden not to lose further ground, the Government must act swiftly. We therefore believe that a national electric air transport strategy should be put in place. With this, Mr President, I would like to endorse the Center Party's reservation number 6.
i-9rtfH8mY9M8rmMjHUoPvdm	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for our reservation number 3 to be approved. For time to win, it's just the one I'm acquiescing. It concerns Arlanda and Bromma. Today we will be debating aviation and aviation issues. Sweden is one of Europe's largest countries. That is why we need different forms of infrastructure that enable our citizens and companies to live and operate throughout Sweden. All of our five modes of transport, as the Center usually says, namely broadband, shipping, rail, road and air transport, are important in order for us to succeed in developing the country. According to the Christian Democrats, different modes of transport cannot be set against each other, but all are needed. At the same time, I would like to emphasise that aviation is part of our public transport and serves society through fast transport over long distances. Mr President, I would like to If aviation is to act as a national hub for both passenger and freight traffic, there must be a network of operating airports. In a normal year without covid, the large airports are profitable, while local and regional airports are often struggling with major economic challenges, which means that municipalities and regions are forced to support them through ownership support. The Christian Democrats believe that the financing of regional airports must be reviewed. We also believe that it should be possible for municipalities and regions to procure air traffic in the same way as other public transport is allowed to be procured. It is important that we see aviation as part of public transport, even if it works at longer distances. Therefore, air transport should be provided with conditions equivalent to those for other public transport services. Mr President, I would like to From 2014 until 2021, the Riksdag has decided on six occasions on announcements regarding Arlanda and Bromma. All these announcements basically say the same thing, namely that Bromma and Arlanda will develop. Nevertheless, the Social Democratic and environmental party government in particular has done everything possible to make air transport more difficult and to speed up the closure of Bromma. If aviation is to serve the whole of Sweden, airports in the Stockholm region must function and have good capacity to handle both national and international flights. Bromma cannot be shut down until Arlanda has the capacity to solve all the needs of aviation. Often the debate is about passenger and freight traffic, but aviation is about so much more. Our airports serve the police, the military, health care and fire aircraft as well as all kinds of private aircraft. We must therefore ensure that we have a functioning network of airports throughout the country, and it is important that more regional airports are classified as emergency airports and that they receive financial support from the state. Furthermore, we must have a flight strategy that gives Arlanda the opportunity to become a Nordic hub. For many of us today it is Helsinki, Copenhagen, Amsterdam or Frankfurt that is the most important airport if we are going out into the world. Even SAS, where the state is a big owner, today does not have Arlanda as its main base. This is particularly detrimental to the Stockholm region and Central Sweden. If you are to attract different headquarters or large conferences, you must have an airport that makes it easy to get to and from Sweden. Arlanda needs to be expanded with a fifth runway. Rail and other infrastructure that serves Arlanda must be developed at the same time as other infrastructure in order to make Stockholm and Sweden attractive to large companies. The development of the Northern economy in line with the planned investment plans will require better infrastructure in terms of electricity, broadband, railways, roads, shipping and air transport. This development means that in the long term we will need to investigate the conditions for a new major airport in northern Sweden. Mr President, I would like to Everyone is aware that aviation has a negative environmental impact. It is therefore gratifying that airlines, tour operators and the aviation industry are working so hard to reduce the environmental impact of aviation. In Sweden we see how several companies work with, for example, electricity, hydrogen, more efficient engines, alternative fuels and more. We also see that an electrified domestic line between Bromma and Visby will be established. We should do everything we can to encourage the continued development of environmentally friendly technologies in Sweden. At the same time, we must work through the UN, ICAO and the EU to further reduce the climate impact of aviation in the most cost-effective way possible. Mr President, I would like to The flight requires well-thought out safety procedures in order to minimise accidents. It is therefore important to continue working on security checks for both passengers and flight personnel. Unfortunately, on a number of occasions alcohol - affected personnel have arrived at the airport to work. Such risks must be minimised. Therefore, we believe that Sweden should work within the international air transport organisation IATA to create a regulatory framework that enables sobriety checks of pilots and other personnel on flights. We have also noted a number of drone incidents. These may pose a threat to aviation. Heathrow and Charles de Gaulle airports have installed a holographic radar system that quickly identifies drones that pose a threat. British law identifies the unauthorized flights as a crime that can impose a penalty of up to five years in prison. The Christian Democrats believe that we, too, should use modern technology to protect our airports and that there is reason to review the sanctions for illegal drone activity and tighten them up on the basis of a British model. Mr President, I would like to The war in Ukraine also means that from both a military perspective and a civilian preparedness perspective, we should review how we protect our airports from sabotage or pure military attack. Mr President, I would like to Air transport is an important part of Swedish public transport. It is therefore important that we give aviation good conditions for development.
i-VHHRAdxHN4CG2HXPwmsMcr	Mr President, I would like to I did not really hear in detail how the Christian Democrats want to reduce the climate load from the aviation industry, just that it is important that it happens. But if I'm going to give Magnus Jacobsson a tip, it might be not just watching the flight itself. In fact, it can also be about how we travel to and from our airports. This is also important for the environmental status of airports. It was gratifying that Jacobsson raised the need to improve public transport to and from Arlanda Airport. Now we have something called Arlandabanan. It is a private consortium, now based in China, which owns the majority and operates Arlanda Express. Perhaps we can give special thanks to the Christian Democrats for this construction. It was the then minister Mats Odell who made sure that it was that way. The problem with Arlandabanan – which has not really been built with private money because it has received government credit guarantees, but it is a private owner – is that we probably have Europe's and perhaps the world's most expensive tickets to travel to and from an airport. We have a railway that is completely non-integrated with the rest of public transport. Trains that stop at Arlanda have to pay a fee for it, and if you step off the train you have to pay a fee to the Chinese owners. There will also be a huge climate load because disproportionately many travel by car or taxi to and from Arlanda. Magnus Jacobsson! We could solve this by taking back the operation of Arlanda Express – simply economically redeeming the Chinese owners and integrating Arlanda Express into the national rail network. Are the Christian Democrats prepared to do so?
i-JZ38JV4tLd8rAmY85W2GTi	Mr President, I would like to I understand that the honourable Member actually asked two questions. One is about what we want to do in aviation to improve the environment and the other about the combination of rail and other public transport and airports. With regard to the first question, I explained this in my speech. There will be electrification, hydrogen and biofuels. In my opinion, the industry is in fact more advanced than politics. I think we can support this. If we meet again in ten years' time, I think we will find that very much of what we are experiencing today as a problem is solved in purely technical terms. There we may have different input values when it comes to how we view technological development. The second question is really exciting. In my opinion, the airport runway is really an example of two things. It is an example of a successful measure. It would never have been built if it had not been done as Mats Odell and the government did at that time. But it is also an example of how the former Social Democratic and Environmental Party government extended an agreement which I think the absolute majority of the Parliament should not have been extended. I have great respect for Mr Jens' question as to whether we Christian Democrats are prepared to redeem this in advance. I have to admit, I won't be able to answer this right now. In that case, I must back home and have a discussion in the party about what this could cost and what it looks like in terms of the budget. But when it comes to the more fundamental question of combining other infrastructure with aviation, we Christian Democrats are extremely positive, for example, about how the railway connects with Kastrup, about the ideas that Gothenburg should be connected with Landvetter and about how we strengthen Arlanda. So, your last straight question as to whether we are prepared to go with you, I must take it with me, but as far as the principle is concerned, we are in complete agreement.
i-4tx9VrbBrDzhqHGrLfpzQm	Mr President, I would like to I agree that it was very unfortunate that the S-MP government chose to extend the operation of the Arlanda runway from 2040 to 2050. Nevertheless, the agreement between the State and the foreign owners of Arlandabanan states that this can be renegotiated and that the State can redeem the foreign owners. It will, of course, cost a penny, but it should also be remembered that today it costs a very large amount of money to have a completely autonomous path that is not at all integrated with the rest of public transport. It costs a very large price for those who, after all, choose to take the train to Arlanda and pay the world's highest prices to travel to and from an airport. And there is a huge burden on the environment when disproportionately many travel by car to and from Arlanda. It is also because the drive to and from Arlanda is as extensive as there are so many parking spaces at Arlanda, and Swedavia wants to build even more. I urge Magnus Jacobsson to go home to his party and discuss not only the fundamental issue in this but also the practical – how we can actually find a solution to this. It does not suggest having a completely separate railway where you have to pay money to get off on the platform. Then something is fundamentally wrong.
i-JvaEsewnh2rnVd1GySSB8w	Mr President, I would like to Mr Holm is well aware of the budgetary processes of the parties. As for the question of whether we can promise to bail out, I will be responsible for the answer and will answer the same as in the previous line: I will take this home with me and have an internal discussion. But what I said in the speech on Arlanda, which we have written in our motion and are also trying to be clear with externally, is that from a Christian Democrat point of view we want Arlanda to become a hub. If it is to become an air hub, we must also invest in all the surrounding measures. One of the most important related measures will be to ensure that both local and more external rail services can get into Arlanda in a good way. The decision taken there was unfortunate; we agree on that. How we will then fix it I will have to dig further into – I thank you for the question. We need to reinforce Arlanda. If you look at the Christian Democratic railway policy you can see that we have pointed out that we will strengthen Norrland, the whole track up towards northern Sweden, and we have also pointed out that we want to strengthen from Stockholm to Gothenburg, especially from Alingsås to Gothenburg. This is, in fact, linked to aviation. If we strengthen our railways and develop the core network we already have today, it will also make it possible to combine travel. You may choose to take the train instead of domestic flight when you go somewhere in the world. For us, therefore, it is important that we do not put the different modes of transport against each other but strengthen each of them. At some point when I have talked to Mälardalsrådet and others I have also asked a little how they see that you could have a track that goes directly from Västerås and Enköping towards Arlanda. There are such sketches that have been looked at. I think that would have been wise even if we were not involved in financing it ourselves. It is a wise future: Strengthen Arlanda as a hub!
i-Wc66PbMDTWFTAgE2cVXBzQ	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by saying that I support all my reservations, but I only support Liberals' reservation number 30 on Nordic cooperation on electric aviation. Mr President, I would like to Now we are here in the last aviation debate of the parliamentary term. It is therefore interesting to look back and see what has happened in these four years, and perhaps above all what has not happened. The airline tax has been introduced, deeply criticized because it did not focus on aviation emissions but was designed to dampen people's willingness to travel and get new experiences and meet family and friends. Electric air transport began to be discussed in 2018, focusing on how a cheap, fossil-free electric flight could affect the living conditions of people and businesses in rural areas and what were the new needs of electric air traffic in terms of airports. A Swedish electric aircraft for 19 people is now being developed by Heart Aerospace outside Gothenburg. More and more airports are fossil-free and have charging infrastructure installed for electric flights. An international flight training for e.g. electric flights, Green Flight Academy, is in the starting blocks of Skellefteå. When it turns technically, it turns quickly. The Pandemine created the worst crisis that the flight has experienced. Air travel was hardest hit by all industries. The number of trips decreased by 90 per cent. Liberals pushed for comprehensive aid packages, so that airports, air traffic control and companies would survive. The pre-war forecast in Ukraine was that it would take until 2027 before the flight would be up to 2019 level on the number of flights. Regional airports are now working hard to survive. Some aid, such as the 900 million to the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration, was not used, but the costs that due to the low number of flights were not covered are now being passed on in the form of charges for future travellers for many years to come. Perhaps the most amazing thing in the worst crisis of aviation ever was when the government went out and said that it wanted to close Bromma airport with reference to the current market situation in the midst of a pandemic. For the Liberals it was totally unacceptable. On the same day, I submitted to the Transport Committee a proposal for a committee initiative to stop the closure. The Government's proposal was in direct conflict with the decision taken by the Riksdag in 2016: that the Government should work towards further development of Bromma airport. The government's answer to that decision was to try to close Bromma down. Now that the government refuses to listen to the Riksdag, the Riksdag has decided that the Government must obtain the approval of the Riksdag for changes in the national basic offer of airports, including Bromma. I'm still waiting for the government to present a proposal for an airport strategy. The study of an airport review was completed five years ago, but has since been allowed to act as a shelf heater. In view of the effects of the pandemic at airports, not least regional airports, and the development of electric flights, which impose other requirements on airport networks in the Nordic region, the need for an airport strategy and a review of the financing model for Swedish airports is acute. Mr President, I would like to It is clear that a new liberal bourgeois government is needed for a developed fossil-free aircraft and Sweden's airports to receive the right treatment they deserve. Without aviation, Sweden cannot function. Liberals want to develop the capacity of aviation while aviation becomes fossil-free. We want to see an airport strategy developed in collaboration between the parties and meeting future needs, where electric, emergency, fire and ambulance flights are important parameters. In parallel, we want to review the financing model for airports in order to strengthen the developed airport strategy. The strategic importance of regional airports for connecting the whole country, for the future electric flight and for the country's preparedness, not least now in the shadow of the war in Ukraine, shall be taken into account. In the light of the pandemic, we want to investigate how a state responsibility should be designed during a crisis to ensure that the aviation sector works when air traffic is drastically reduced due to government decisions. The investigation should also look at how to facilitate a re-start, for example by avoiding details such as security checks on staff recruitment to work at airports, which are currently hampering the re-starting process. We want regions and municipalities to be allowed to procure and finance air traffic as in the rest of the EU. We believe that it is market-limiting that this possibility does not exist in Sweden. In the short term, the issue of economic recovery is the greatest threat to the aviation industry. In a longer perspective, it is aviation's impact on the climate we need to focus on and solve in order to retain the benefits of aviation. For the Liberals, it is emissions that are the problem, not the flight itself. Mr President, I would like to Liberals want to push for an international aviation fuel tax system based on emissions and replace today's air fare tax. The emissions of the aircraft are best solved at international level in order to have an effect. In order to have a global impact, we must use Europe as a lever. A properly used system of environmental take-off and landing fees is positive. In the long term, the high-height effects of aviation also need to be compensated. Mr President, I would like to However, it is not through new taxes that we achieve a fossil-free flight, but through technological development and innovation. That's why I and the Liberals believe in aviation and believe that we can overcome the climate impact of aviation, in Sweden and globally, through electric flights, biofuels, hydrogen and further optimisation of aircraft design to streamline transport and reduce high altitude effects. In the end, some compensation by carbon capture may be required to reach net zero. We are open to this, unlike some other parties. We want to support research in all these areas to secure aviation in a fossil-free future. The collaboration platform for fossil-free aviation should continue to be able to promote the goal of a fossil-free flight in 2045. Electric Elflyg have a special place in my heart. Existing technologies, such as electric motors and batteries, are adapted to a new area that can enable air travel without climate impact. Batteries are developed through the race in the passenger car sector. Sweden's extensive flying skills, paraded with distance-working global expertise, can enable a new branch of industry in Sweden. Electricity has the potential to make short flights between different regions profitable again. Traffic analysis recommends that several instruments be considered for electric aviation. Liberals want to see increased investment in research and development, risk relief when introducing the plan to the market and initial support for operations. We want to see a developed cooperation in the Nordic region to create a Nordic aviation market for electric flights where the regulations are coordinated. Mr President, I would like to After eight years when the government has opposed and dismantled the aviation sector, it is clear that a new liberal bourgeois government is needed for aviation to have a future in Sweden.
i-V3dwrPrnp9P3Ajb1aMPVyA	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating aviation, the industry that has probably been hardest hit by the pandemic. Now, for example, taxpayers have saved SAS several times from apparent bankruptcy. Although the future of many airlines looks bright, many of them have gone through reconstruction. I hope, of course, that we will all return to normal soon. It is not only the pandemic that has hit aviation, but also the war that Russia has started against a peaceful and democratic country, Ukraine. Mr President, I would like to The report deals with some 120 requests for exercise. There are a number of different topics under discussion: regional airports and their importance, electric aviation, the climate impact of aviation, and so on. However, nothing seems as important as the issue of Arlanda and Bromma. We have heard that from this speaker's chair during the day. We've heard about Swedavia and Magnus Persson's investigation. Jacob Wallenberg and Stockholm Chamber of Commerce have also said that we need to close down Bromma in order to develop Arlanda and to enable Arlanda to compete with, for example, Kastrup. We see that more and more routes are being moved from Arlanda to Kastrup and that Arlanda will become a feeder airport for example for Copenhagen. It affects us in many different ways. Why should companies want to be in Stockholm when they from Copenhagen can fly directly all over the world? The only reasonable thing to do, as all the assessors have so far said, is to strengthen Arlanda, close down Bromma and build homes on that site. That is what is needed in Stockholm. Mr President, I would like to Regional airports play an important role for Sweden, not least because they connect the country quickly and efficiently. Today there are 33 regional airports, but all over Sweden there are about 290 airports. Perhaps they will have a decisive impact on us when we are about to change. If these airports can be used for drone traffic or as hubs where the goods come and then transported further are some of the things I'm thinking about. What is the significance of all these airports in the event of war or a new pandemic? I see a real challenge ahead of me, and that is how airports will be financed in the future. We know that a lot of them are financed by state resources, but also by local and regional resources. Reviews carried out by the Government in order to increase the number of emergency airports are now subject to consultation. Mr President, I would like to It is not possible to talk about aviation without mentioning the environmental issue or how airports should be climate neutral. The Government decided on 26 January 2017 on a Swedish aviation strategy where one of the focus areas highlighted is on how to reduce the environmental and climate impact of aviation. The aviation strategy states that aviation, like other modes of transport, will contribute to the goal that Sweden should be the world's first fossil-free welfare country. In addition, Sweden will be a driving force in the EU and ICAO to reduce the environmental and climate impact of aviation. When Sweden, as the only country in ICAO, raised the issue of taxing ful fuel, none of the other countries said anything. Now we hear from several countries, especially in Europe, that it is time to tax oil for the benefit of biofuels. These are important steps, not only for us in Sweden but also globally. In Sweden, we have a lot to gain from the huge interest in starting more companies based on innovations in the aviation sector. However, we must not forget that aviation is also prepared to take its share of the responsibility for our planet. To think that we will stop flying is to be naive, not least in the global world in which we live. What can be done to make the flight change faster and easier? More biofuels, electric flights for shorter distances and better coordination in the EU but also in the world can provide better and straighter routes for aviation, green flights and so on. The government has already extended its investment in research on sustainable fuels for aviation, and we must not forget that there are now investments in research on electric aviation, hydrogen and refuelling and charging infrastructure. In 2021, 18 projects were launched with a view to fossil-free flight. Mr President, I would like to What is the future for aviation? I believe that aviation has its given place in the transport infrastructure. It has, as I mentioned, been adversely affected by the pandemic and now by war, but the future of aviation is not flight combs but flight possibilities. As we are more and more crowded in cities and yet should have fast deliveries of packages, letters, food, medicines and everything else, aviation can be the solution. Now you're wondering if I'm talking about planes landing on Storgatan, but that's not what I'm talking about. I'm saying the technology for drones and smaller vessels has come a very long way. All these vehicles are powered primarily by electricity but also by hydrogen. The other day the report was released tomorrow's flight by the transport companies, and it states that the aviation industry in Sweden has the same potential as the car industry once had. This is what we're going to take care of. Finally, I would like to support the proposal in the committee's report and reject all the requests.
i-5wEEk72F5TF9P6dTy25MqV	Mr President, I would like to The Social Democrats, as usual, mix high and low when it comes to aviation policy. It is everything from grass plains where sailplanes land to large national airports for our long-haul flights. This leads me to believe that you do not really know what the situation is and do not take the issue seriously when it comes to where the flight is going today and what current aviation policy has done for the Swedish aviation industry and for Sweden's future as a nation. There is a reason why the representative of the Social Democrats mentions Kastrup and that many of our long-distance flights today go from Kastrup and not from Arlanda. It is because a policy has been pursued over time that makes airlines no longer feel safe when it comes to having their long flights from Sweden. In order for us to change this, we need a policy where we believe in the future, in the green airlift and that we can develop Sweden as a nation but also Arlanda as a major national airport. To do this, we need to be able to feed in flights and passengers to and from Arlanda. The capacity to and from Arlanda is limited right now based on the infrastructure around Arlanda, which is why we need more than one airport. We need Bromma airport. This issue has been discussed both high and low in this House and in many different ways. There is a lack of clarity in what the Social Democrats really want with aviation as a whole. Do you want to maintain a functioning infrastructure, and do you want the whole of Sweden to be able to live? If you cannot now build homes at Bromma Airport, which is a Stockholm issue, I wonder: What do the Social Democrats want to do in practice in order to develop Arlanda into the large and fully functional airport that we want it to be?
i-AVXJ8Ai4bG4iG1o4L6TVNr	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Åsa Coenraads, for the questions! I think I answered some of them in my speech and regret if the honourable Member did not listen to everything I said. I said that the most important thing for Sweden, not just for the Stockholm region, is Arlanda. I have a strong opinion on this. During the pandemic it has been shown that people from Skåne, for example, have not been able to get to Kastrup to fly from there, and then Arlanda has been the national airport. We Social Democrats have always argued that according to all the investigations that have come, Bromma is not needed, and I hope that Mr Coenraads has also read, for example, what the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce has come up with. Among other things, they have told us that there is potential to save 44 billion just by closing Bromma airport and moving traffic to Arlanda Airport. This strengthens Arlanda in all possible ways. There is a clear social democratic line, and that is that Arlanda is the whole of Sweden's airport, not Kastrup or something else that is beyond our borders.
i-DWESmzgCxRYF4PcoCkPHhb	Mr President, I would like to I have listened very carefully to the speech by the Social Democrats from the speaker's chair on aviation and its future and specifically on Arlanda, and I have heard that we want to develop Arlanda. What I don't hear and don't understand is how to do this. How do the Social Democrats view the parking possibilities around Arlanda? How do you see the train back and forth between Arlanda and Stockholm and how it can be made price efficient for the people who fly domestic? The risk of closing Bromma is that a flight from Norrland to Stockholm will be twice as expensive as what it could be today because we are losing competition. It is terribly expensive to take the train between Arlanda and Stockholm. I also wonder how we can get more train operators to Arlanda and how we can get the regional trains to stay at Arlanda at reasonable prices for passengers but also for the state as head of SJ. I also wonder what to do with the innovations around Arlanda and Arlandastad and how to fit in with the innovations that are currently on Bromma and that today do not really fit at Arlanda and around Arlanda. I wonder how communication goes with the municipalities around Arlanda in terms of environmental permits and the like if you would develop the airport. Here there are a lot of Social Democratic municipal councillors, both around Stockholm and around the country, to listen to. And I think you should listen specifically to those who come from Norrland and from southern Sweden who believe that Bromma is needed because Bromma is the whole of Sweden's airport. I lack answers from the Social Democrats to these questions. Denis Begic is therefore very happy to answer how we will develop Arlanda.
i-QGkraXPH5Z7BuFy2KLFQNC	Mr President, I would like to Now there were a lot of questions that came to me at the same time. At least I'll try to answer some of them. One question was about Swedavia. I do not remember if Mr Coenraads was at the meeting with them. They said we don't have to expand now. There is room at Arlanda in every way possible to receive all traffic from Bromma. It has been said from them. It has also been demonstrated in various investigations. I am also not satisfied with how to get to Arlanda. We Social Democrats voted in 1994 against the private construction of Arlandabanan. Then it was extended. The first time it was done by the Reinfeldt government, and then the company extended this – if I am to replicate what has been before. The company itself had a letter according to which it could extend the agreement at Arlandabanan without the government or parliament having to interfere with it. That is truly unfortunate. Arlanda is an important hub. And, among other things, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise has told us that it is important that Arlanda has lines that go directly to different destinations in the world, otherwise we lose just the innovation force that the Member Coenraads is currently describing. This responsibility lies with Moderates who constantly insist that Bromma should remain regardless of other things.
i-LL9EUchnfrQ6AFup9e7FHG	Mr President, I would like to Swedavia has previously said that Bromma is a profitable airport – not as profitable as Arlanda but still profitable. There have been private stakeholders who have wanted to take over Bromma but who have not been allowed to do so. I'd like to say it so it's clear. I do not really understand the Social Democrats who first want to shut down Bromma more or less out of control, instead of first expanding Arlanda– if you are going to have some sort of consequence thinking – and then think about closing down Bromma, in order to swallow that traffic. It is not disputed that Arlanda, with the traffic that existed before the pandemic, would not be able to take over even Bromma's traffic. I think we can agree on that. One must then reasonably expand Arlanda before closing Bromma. It had been possible to shut down in pandemic times. Even now, however, flights have increased so much that there are problems. Nor must we forget that small planes and large planes are difficult to combine. The turbulence caused by large planes is not so easy for small planes to handle. Therefore, there will be longer take-off and landing times. If you had this combination, Arlanda would be more inefficient. Then you simply have to expand the Arlanda airport, which, in our opinion, would have had to be done first. But it works fine the way it is. Bromma is an attractive, smooth and well-placed airport that people really want to use when flying to and from Stockholm. Then I have a question about the airline tax. After all, it is directly counterproductive. It makes it much harder for airlines to have money to invest in new, efficient and more fuel-efficient aircraft. That is why I would like to ask Denis Begic what the airline tax is for. What's the use of the airline tax?
i-4NZ44saCToyCmmY8m2nkBw	Mr President, I would like to I thank Patrik Jönsson for the question. I do not know whether the question was whether private stakeholders want to take over Bromma or not. We have seen, among other things, when it comes to Arlandabanan that private interests may not always be best for Sweden. One view that I have previously expressed to, among others, Mr Coenraads, is that Bromma's location in the City of Stockholm means a great deal to the City of Stockholm in order to be able to build housing there and continue to develop as much as possible. As far as taxes are concerned, we are trying in different ways in this country to promote innovation and promote ways to find smarter solutions and contribute to finding smarter solutions. And in some places we also need to use a whip to help in the conversion that is taking place. The tax has been part of that, among other things, where we are trying to get companies to start using biofuels and more environmentally friendly ways of travelling. You may not need to take the flight when travelling between Stockholm and Jönköping, for example, when there are such good train connections. So it takes both carrots and whips for us to be able to reset, if we are to have this planet left. I don't know if the Swedish Democrats think our planet is worth defending, or if they think we should just live as we have done so far. Many assessors tell us that we cannot continue in this way.
i-XMGhJZ6sFjB445GymHJTVZ	Mr President, I would like to From the Social Democrats it sounds as if Stockholm's expansion stands and falls on whether Bromma exists or not. Of course, that is not the case. Bromma is simply the hub of Swedish domestic aviation, and without Bromma Sweden would be many connections poorer. This would also lead to a worse expansion of our northern part of the country in particular. But it would also affect flights to and from southern Sweden. That's why Bromma is very important. The fact that we are now trying to force a closure in a few years seems completely ill-considered as long as we have not chosen to expand Arlanda, and we have not seen that anything has been done to make it happen. As far as air tax is concerned, it is not differentiated in terms of fuel; it is the same air tax. And it is not going to improve the opportunities for airlines to develop. My specific question is: what is the airline tax for? Perhaps you should have had differentiated taxes, but there is no such thing.
i-NdfCe5LiYbe6jbSqnKNYG5	Mr President, I would like to I see Arlanda as the whole of Sweden's airport. It has served us well, and not only Stockholm but all of Sweden. Companies have chosen to establish their head offices in the Stockholm region, for example, but have perhaps had their production elsewhere in Sweden. Arlanda has meant a great deal. The Stockholm Chamber of Commerce, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and everyone else can attest to that. Swedavia has reported to us that Arlanda can receive all traffic from Bromma without any problems, even with the 2019 figures and not with the figures that applied during the pandemic. There is no doubt about what can be done. In my speech I said a few times that the government has contributed, among other things, to the development of electric flights in Sweden, to the development of hydrogen for aviation and to the development of pumping stations and the charging infrastructure. When this money goes into the budget, the aviation industry will probably also be able to take part in it. So part of the tax goes into the budget and may be part of the very efforts made to make this planet survive.
i-64oHp3EcS99zm5bpVY6z2m	Mr President, I would like to First of all, it is difficult not to start by saying anything about Ukraine and the terrible war that is now going on. But there are links to the theme of the debate here, because more than half of all imported aviation fuel to Sweden comes from Russia. It is therefore regrettable and sad that six out of eight parties here voted down the Green Party's proposal to strangle all imports of Russian energy. It's one way to keep fattening Putin's war fund. Anything that fuels the flight, the flying and other consumption of energy originating in Russia is a way of fattening Putin's war fund, and that is not acceptable. However, let me turn to the other issues relating to air traffic, air transport and so on! I'm going to start at an overall level. The Swedes are flying too much. We have a far too large climate footprint from Swedish flying. We fly five times more than the global average, and the fact is that Swedes are one of the nationalities that flies the most in the world. It is not sustainable in any way. Imagine a situation where everyone in the world had flown like Swedes; then we would have had to say an immediate goodbye to our global climate agreements, such as the Paris Agreement and so on. That's what it looks like, whether you want to see it or not. That's where we are. I move on to the overall level: The flight is deeply fossil-dependent. It is because there are no technologies that can replace fossil fuels here and now. There are those in this House who continue to repeat the mantra that it is not the journeys but the emissions we are going to chase. The problem is that in this case it is synonymous – flying involves fossil combustion. This means that we are upsetting a galloping climate emergency globally. That's just what it looks like. There are those who are doing research on this and who are much wiser than we are in here in terms of technology development and the like. They return time and again to the fact that, since the early 1990s, there has not been a single technology to reduce emissions from air travel that has been widely accepted. It's boring, but it's just the way it is. I will then move on to more topical issues and will talk a little about different techniques ahead. Let's start with Bromma, who a lot of people in here have highlighted. Bromma bleeds money and has been doing it for a long, long time – especially during the pandemic, but even before it was Bromma a big loss deal. The financing of our airports works so that they need to be supported either by taxpayers' money or by charging charges. I just want everyone to understand what this means in practice: either we take money from taxpayers and use it to what is usually business people's air travel, or it is air routes that have the tough thing that needs to pay in the form of increased charges. This means that routes that we need may have to be closed down because Bromma is bleeding too much money. It is therefore much wiser to collect domestic flights to an airport in Stockholm. Stockholm also suffers from housing shortages, and Bromma is an attractive area where 30 000 – 50 000 homes could have been built in a sustainable way in reasonably close to public transport. We need to close Bromma airport for several reasons; it is as simple as that. This will be a natural bridge to talk about Arlanda. It is that all air traffic can be moved from Bromma to Arlanda, today. Several have stood in this speaker's seat and said the opposite, which is a lie. There is capacity to move the entire Bromma today. The representative of the Swedish Democrats has said the opposite, but everything – everything – indicates that it is absolutely clear that it is possible to move all the capacity today, without any problems. Let me take this very pedagogically, as I have already done in this speaker's chair – perhaps even twice. But let's look at the numbers! And now try to listen to the actual numbers, so that it will be right. Arlanda has an environmental permit that allows 350 000 movements per year. It's the condition. In 2019 they had only 233 000 movements. So they have a permit for 350 000 but 233 000 movements. There is a great deal of overcapacity. Now someone smart in here is going to ask: But what happens on peak hours, that is, when there is the greatest pressure on air travel? What happens then? Yes, here's the thing: Arlanda has a capacity of 90 movements per hour, but since 2016 it has never passed 73. There is therefore an excess capacity on the peak hour. Everything – everything – indicates that moving Bromma directly today would certainly not be a problem. On top of this came the pandemic and put it all on its way. I don't think people in here have understood the actual effects of that. I just talked about businessmen flying a lot, but they don't anymore. What has changed structurally in the aviation market is the disappearance of services. All assessors argue that these are structural changes, which means that fewer people fly in the service and more have digital meetings. This is welcome and positive in all possible ways, but it means that we have an overcapacity in the Swedish airport system. That's what it means. In this situation, there are those who say, hear and be amazed, that we should double Arlanda. It would be the greatest destruction of capital in years and days, perhaps then Nuon or something like that. Well– we can look a little forward and look at different techniques. We have electric flights, as has been mentioned here very much. I'm a warm electric flight friend, but I still have to quell the excessive optimism. All research indicates that it is only in 20, 30 or 40 years that electric aircraft can have any market penetration. That penetration will also be very small; there is talk of about about about 10 percent of the aircraft being able to switch to electricity, and then not until 2050 or 2060. This is very clear and can be found in research reports from Chalmers, KTH and so on. It's no wonder either, for what lines is the electric flight supposed to go on? Stockholm– Visby, absolutely– it would be great to have electric flights on that line. But electric flights don't go much further than that. Why should you have electric flights Stockholm – Gothenburg? We have trains, which is much more suitable for transporting many people. Most distances of 400 km– it is about as long as the electric flight can enter and compete – are excellently suited for train traffic. The train often goes faster and can transport many more people. I see that I have oversold my speaking time, so I will try to speed it up. The next technology is biofuels. It's a partial solution, and it's really just a partial solution. Biofuels are poor in handling high altitude effects; they are about as bad as fossil fuels. In addition, there is the lack, according to the latest figures I have read, of having to grow up virtually the entire earth's land in order to supply the entire aviation sector with biofuels if we were now to replace all fossil fuels with biofuels. However, the technology with potential is hydrogen. There is far too little talk about hydrogen technology in the Swedish aviation debate, but it has the potential to compete and really reduce emissions in the longer term. A few other points forward: What do we need to do? Well, we need to keep working so that air travel doesn't increase. We need to close unnecessary airports. It is quite unreasonable for taxpayers to subsidise rich Stockholmers' Malagasy holidays, as is the case with Västerås Airport, for example. Put it down! We also need to stop certain lines that are not justified. Stockholm – Gothenburg is the most common line in Sweden, and that is completely unreasonable. That's exactly where the train works. We need to increase the flight tax. I am also open to developing air tax to the extent possible. We should expand the options, such as high-speed lines. We also need more night train lines so that you can get down to the continent without having to fly. The Green Party's proposals in this area are, above all, in other reports, so I will refrain from calling for anything here.
i-8VxLpwbFiAzSWmQAZEbXce	Mr President, I would like to Europe is at war. Our thoughts are largely in the acute crisis situation and with the Ukrainian people, who are fighting for their survival and independence. But the war has also shed light on Europe's dependence on Russian gas, which is harmful both to the climate and to our security. The Moderates have long warned against the German example and that the decision to shut down fully functioning nuclear power would lead to just increased German and European dependence on Russian gas. This was also the case. In the same way, we warned when the Swedish Government took the corresponding decisions and shut down nuclear reactors here at home. The result has been sky-high electricity prices during parts of the year, pensioners sleeping with double duvets to afford electricity bills and companies that cannot expand or switch their activities to fossil-free due to the lack of electricity. An increased fossil-free energy supply that supplies electricity around the clock regardless of the weather is simply crucial both for Europe's safety and for us in Sweden not to be directly or indirectly dependent on Russian fossil gas. In Sweden alone, we will need twice as much electricity in two decades to succeed in the climate transition if industries and cars are to go on electricity. All fossil-free forms of energy are needed. Then hydropower is needed, then wind power is needed, and then nuclear power is also needed. Perhaps this is one of the most important climate policy issues ahead of us. The Moderates want to remove what is in practice a deadline for nuclear power and remove the many legal obstacles that make it difficult today to build new nuclear power. Here and now, we are primarily focused on helping Ukraine to defend itself and preserve peace in Europe, but let us also have the courage to take the necessary decisions for an energy system that both saves the climate and makes us independent of Russia. Mr President, I would like to The war has also shown that the EU is strong when the EU is united. This also applies to climate policy. When 27 countries can act together, it will have a greater impact than when a country does it alone. That is why we in the Moderates always stress the importance of common rules for the climate at European level and preferably globally. We do so in the report being debated today and in our reservations. We know that the price of emissions is the most effective way of reducing emissions and that the EU ETS has increasingly made coal unprofitable in Europe. The Moderates want to see a larger emissions trading system covering more sectors, so that more people than today can be involved in paying for the emissions they cause. A first natural step is to include shipping in this system. We want to see stricter requirements for all new cars released into the EU. It should be tougher requirements and lower emissions, because cross-border problems simply require cross-border solutions and common standards. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates also want national climate policy to take a broader and more global perspective. Swedish business is in many ways the new environmental movement of our time, and we see that Swedish companies are in line to make climate-smart products that can both reduce emissions and strengthen companies' and Sweden's competitiveness. When Swedish companies can export fossil-free steel, sustainable batteries or forest products to build houses in wood, for example, it crowds out things that would otherwise have been produced with higher emissions in other parts of the world. This means that the world's total emissions are decreasing. This is largely due to efficient industrial processes but also to the fact that Swedish electricity production is largely fossil-free. This benefit is extensive. A study the other year showed that in 2018, Swedish companies contributed to reducing global emissions by 26 million tonnes through their exports. That corresponds to about half of what we here in Sweden release ourselves. The more produced in Sweden, the better. The Moderates have long fought for this larger, global perspective and for it to be part of Sweden's climate work. We have pushed for this also within the framework of the work of the Environmental Objectives Committee. I hope that this can become a reality, so that politics in the future puts a greater focus on shortening permit processes and producing all the fossil-free electricity required for Swedish industry to become the world leader in exporting climate benefit. In this context, it is also important that policies provide forests with the means to contribute to the transformation. The used and growing forest binds more carbon dioxide than the one standing untouched. In addition, all the products that we get out of the forest contribute to crowding out fossil alternatives. We can build wooden houses, make clothes out of wood fibers, and drive on biofuels. This requires that we both in Sweden and in the EU encourage continued active and sustainable forestry for the sake of the climate. Here at home we must get rid of rules such as that forestry workers should be forced to count every bird on their land or, in the worst case, completely refrain from using. At EU level, Sweden must dare to stand up for Swedish sustainable forestry and not, as some parties do, rather contribute to the image of forestry as an environmental villain. The truth is that over 300 000 people and families who own forest in Sweden every day use it with care, for the benefit of both production and the natural values found in the forest. Mr President, I would like to Innovation and new technologies are also crucial to the success of the transition. The UN Panel on Climate Change points, among other things, to the capture and storage of carbon dioxide, what is known as CCS, as crucial to achieving the world's climate goals. I am proud that the budget that M, KD and SD received through the Riksdag is not only the largest environmental and climate budget of all time, but also includes a major effort to capture and store carbon dioxide. This effort is six times greater than that originally proposed by the government. With this budget, we can capture the equivalent of 4 percent of Sweden's annual emissions each year. That's good. Now the government just has to implement this so that we get the coal dioxin capture auctions going. The government, as the Moderates and several other parties point out in common reservations in this report, must also remove the legal and practical obstacles that still exist. Regulations need to be amended so that the transport of CO2 in more ways than just through pipes becomes legal and that storage under the seabed and the Baltic Sea is made possible. In addition, we urgently need cooperation with other countries on the ground – for example with Norway, which is at the forefront of building storage sites, but also with other countries – so that these stocks do not become full and are booked up by others. We also need to bring CO2 capture and storage into the EU's common regulatory framework so that the whole of Europe can together build up a carbon capture and storage system. Mr President, I would like to We in Sweden have managed and benefited from major changes in society before, and we will do so again. Industrialisation, beginning in the middle of the 19th century, created many of the Swedish companies that we are most proud of today and that have exported to the whole world. The expansion of nuclear power during the 1970s made Swedish electricity fossil-free. Digitalisation from the late 1900s created the next wave of Swedish innovations. We made all those changes our strength. Sweden has a unique opportunity to get out of the climate change as well. But this requires a policy that creates the conditions for Swedish companies and all people around Sweden to be able to contribute. The ore and the forest built Sweden strong and rich once upon a time. Now the ore and the forest are driving the technological development forward again. Our clean and stable electricity supply made us a modern industrial nation. Properly managed, climate change thus becomes a competitive advantage and creates more jobs and increased economic prosperity. However, in recent years climate policy has failed, and emissions have fallen too slowly. The Climate Policy Council, the government's own expert body, states in its report, which came just a few weeks ago, in finer words, but yet, that the government has devoted itself to small issues and has not addressed the major systemic issues. Symbol politics has been pushed ahead of results and effect simply. The Council also criticises the government for lack of leadership and governance. The government and the authorities are not working in the same direction. This means that all companies that want to switch do not get the chance because of long permit processes, the lack of fossil-free stable electricity and authorities that sometimes steal more than they help. Swedish climate policy needs a fresh start. My goal is for the climate and the Swedish people in the elections in September to have a new government and a climate policy that delivers results. Mr President, I would like to I stand behind all of the Moderate reservations, but I plead for time winning only the approval of reservation 24.
i-JEqB3sW8PPGSgYjskDXweh	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson, Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist, Minister of Foreign Affairs Ann Linde and Minister Hans Dahlgren. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-NAdbqkzVZZAyPYqJgoMve3	Madam President, I would like A few days ago, Säpo's yearbook for 2021 came out, and I read directly from it: Russian intelligence officers are continuously recruiting agents in Sweden. In 2021, one person was convicted of espionage on behalf of Russia. One in three Russian diplomats in Sweden is intelligence officers operating under diplomatic cover. That is why I have a question, Madam President, addressed to Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde. After all, attempts are being made within the EU with a coordinated action to get to the Russian intelligence officers who are acting with diplomatic legitimacy. Unfortunately, however, it seems difficult to reach agreement and, above all, accessibility. A number of countries are now getting tired of not making progress in the EU and cannot reach agreement there, such as the Netherlands, Ireland and Belgium.
i-Bk1BAFNhDMtS1LMRc5iTUT	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the question. Let me first state that it is totally unacceptable for Russia to engage in intelligence activities in Sweden under diplomatic cover. That is something you cannot accept. This is a problem that exists in many countries. We are trying to deal with it together as much as we can, because there is a problem in that it is constantly being rejuvenated. When other embassies do the same thing, we have opportunities to operate in Russia, and we need to do so for a variety of reasons.
i-U7y9ACda8FMxnNwdHLbWcP	Madam President, I would like I share the view of the Foreign Minister that it is unacceptable that Russian intelligence activities in Sweden should be carried out as a diplomat. At the same time, Säpo says that it is a third that does. So it is a third that is engaged in something unacceptable. Then, Madam President, I think we should call for action and action, preferably within the European Union. Then I wonder if Sweden is trying to push, because there is obviously a disappointment from countries such as the Netherlands, Ireland and Belgium who say that it does not work. What does Sweden do?
i-CQvc6YyRH5LbkWDqPqDUVd	Madam President, I would like Sweden has this discussion with other countries. There is in no way any sweeping unity here. There are also many countries that have smaller embassies than Sweden who are very afraid that they will not be able to retain their diplomatic activities at all, should they be forced to see a retreat that will make all diplomats disappear. Here we must try to act in a united way, but still ensure that we do not destroy ourselves.
i-2vHRkbyVagyJFNDkQDvULT	Madam President, I would like Overcrowded prisons free the streets while waiting to serve their sentences, SVT reported this weekend. It is alarming information, but unfortunately this has been the case for years. Victims have been able to run into their perp on the street, and prison sentences have been able to commit new crimes while waiting to actually serve the sentences for the crimes for which they are already convicted. It is a dangerous order and a betrayal of victims. Anstaltes are expanding. But the shortage is still there, and it's felt now. Why does Morgan Johansson not ensure that foreign citizens serve the sentences in their home countries and that Sweden, like Denmark, rents places abroad to resolve this deficiency immediately?
i-VhycECPt8wYqXUgo2HggMc	Madam President, I would like Yes, it is true that we now have a situation with almost a hundred percent occupancy in both prisons and prisons. It is an effect of having more police officers than ever, that we have tougher penalties ever in modern times, that the police have better tools than ever and that we have more camera surveillance than ever. The fight against crime is just getting started. This means that more and more people will be sentenced and those sentenced will also be sentenced to longer prison sentences. People who used to run around with guns in town are now sitting in the cage, which is exactly how it should be. We have now seen this effect on detention centres and prisons, and we are making sure to expand as quickly and as widely as possible. It is important to point out that no one who commits the serious crimes, and who, for example, is detained for these crimes, is released into the street because at the moment there is no room in the prisons, but that they are allowed to continue to sit behind bars.
i-EcXXro8uuLY7C3oWRTntJe	Madam President, I would like At the meeting of the Committee on Justice today, the Social Democrats chose to oppose our proposal to rent prison places abroad. They like to see prison sentences go free while waiting for a place to go. In addition, the Social Democrats today reserved for criminalising escape. Why does Morgan Johansson believe that it should not be a criminal offence to flee a prison sentence? I cannot reconcile that logic, Madam President.
i-9f2YBefqiG9EPbWmQJkUv	Madam President, I would like You can say that when you have nothing else to come up with, you are happy to come up with your symbolic questions, and that is what the Swedish Democrats are doing now. The proposal put forward here does not matter at all, especially in view of the fact that hardly anyone is running away from Swedish prisons anymore. Fifteen to 20 years ago we had problems with escapes, but we don't have that anymore, so I think this is more like signing the symbolism account. We will continue to expand prisons and detention centres so that the Prison Service can continue to solve its task.
i-6FFMDQACumhP2CMg1iTzeg	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Hans Dahlgren. Last week, the European Union held a major summit in which all the Heads of Government converged, and there were a number of points concerning the terrible situation in Ukraine. Putin's invasion is appalling, and many Ukrainians have had to flee for life. It's a terrible situation in the country. But it is also a difficult situation just outside the borders. At the summit, there was no item on the agenda that touched precisely those who had made their way out of the country. I know that Ylva Johansson, as Commissioner, then came up with a ten-point programme to coordinate transport, among other things, so that those who gather at the borders actually have the opportunity to move on to other countries, to move on to a new start and to have the opportunity to land somewhere in peace and freedom. The question is, when will this workshop be? Right now it's full. It's like a pressure cooker when a lot of people gather and don't make it.
i-RLiwuUcfmjooQt7Cb27Uxt	Madam President, I would like I thank Annika Qarlsson for the question. I can assure you that although the issue was not a formal item on the agenda or included in the conclusions, it was, of course, an issue that was discussed by the European leaders, because the millions of people who have now had to flee Ukraine and the Russian aggression against the country need our support. They'll get our support. They are supported by Poland. They are supported by Moldova. They are supported by Romania. They are supported in neighbouring countries. In many countries huge efforts are being made. The European institutions and the European Commission, of course, are also doing their bit, with Ylva Johansson at the head of the special responsibility. I don't have a timetable to present. However, I know that the unity that the European Union has shown in dealing with the immediate invasion, in reaching decisions on sanctions, in obtaining support for Ukraine and in strengthening the European Union will also be expressed in support of those fleeing the country. I'm convinced of that.
i-DWFL6kqW4hkKcq4UC1uXsZ	Madam President, I would like It is indeed a force that we have shown great and broad. It is extremely valuable and crucial in this situation. But I'm a little concerned. It is private initiative, and it is municipalities that are taking the initiative. Grästorp goes down with buses and brings home. At Alingsås there were 52 people the other week. Today it is Uddevalla who goes down both to leave food and medicine and to take refugees home with him. It is absolutely fantastic initiatives that are being taken and extremely valuable. But somewhere it is so big that there must also be other things. Where is Sweden in this?
i-Fq31xmHRgKKc49bx81G31k	Madam President, I would like Sweden is definitely part of this. Our government, other governments and the European Union as such with their institutions are doing their part. However, we also have an outstanding contribution from civil society, which is also supported by the government to cope with many of those tasks. It's admirable. It is indeed a fine addition to everything else that is being done that we have a civil society that takes that responsibility. Just say hello.
i-VuoJtTbD1YXc7z51wwJWcV	Madam President, I would like The Equality Agency today released a report showing that three out of four women with protected identity have their protective identity revealed by Swedish authorities. There are 24 000 people who have protected identity today in Sweden. Many of them flee men's violence against women and honour-related violence and oppression. These identities are revealed due to a lack of routines by Swedish authorities and in the municipalities. These are people who live in a very difficult situation. We are all well aware of how men's violence against women affects far too many of Sweden's women today. I want to know how the government intends to ensure that there is competence and routines in Swedish authorities. These mistakes must not happen. That is something that we really have to stop. I want to know what the government intends to do.
i-SJYYmUvZp87jqjQ6Uh8qDQ	Madam President, I would like I very much welcome the report by the Equality Agency. That report is commissioned by the government because we want to know what the shortcomings are and what can be done about it. Perhaps it should be noted that it has not been so long since the right wing of this House wanted to close down the Equality Authority. It is fortunate that we have that authority now so that it can come up with that kind of basis so that we can continue to work on these important issues. It is, of course, totally unacceptable for hidden women to have their information disclosed by the authorities responsible for protecting them. I think that much of it is simply a question of education and a routine issue for those authorities. Now that we receive the report, we will go through it and see what else we can do to ensure that risks are minimised so that it does not happen again. It is totally unacceptable, as I said, that this should happen. This has enormous consequences for the women and children concerned. They move a couple, three, and sometimes several times every time something like that happens.
i-MLkWZ2L3dWDDcqumnbwAe6	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. We shall protect the Equality Agency by all means available to us. It is an extremely important authority. People with protected identity must also receive more support and help. Another measure that does not work to protect women from men's violence is the prohibition of contact. They are used far too rarely and not in the right way. Here I would like to see the government ensure that the police and social services ensure that women are protected by the means available. The contact bans must be used more.
i-D7fAaSpymSKaUP1dkz4YeY	Madam President, I would like I agree with that. We have just changed the legislation in terms of being able to put a anklet on the men who are persecuting their former. We did this on 1 January. We will, of course, have to follow it in order to see that the amendment of the law will also have the intended effect. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that today's News has a good article by Kerstin Weigl and Petra Erlander on this particular report. There you attach a number of suggestions that you think the government should proceed with. We take this very seriously, and we will continue to work on this offensively.
i-A9zF99FZeMrBvdhk1mjfyp	Madam President, I would like About four weeks ago, the head of Säpo went out and said that a third of Russian diplomats are not doing what they should do and say they are doing, but are a threat to Sweden's security. Since then, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania have taken the decision to expel those who are similarly a threat to their countries. Poland has decided to expel 40 people. The latest decision was made by the Netherlands on Tuesday to do the same and to expel 17 of the Russians who are spies. Now Belgium comes and says to expel 21 people. What it boils down to, the Secretary of State understands. What will Sweden do? Will Sweden follow this example, or is it waiting? What's going on?
i-3mgLsMqxmKreEERKV41EzZ	Madam President, I would like It is brilliant to see that the right-wing opposition is united. I answered exactly the same question five minutes ago. But I am happy to repeat the answer to the Christian Democrats as well. It is, of course, totally unacceptable for diplomats to engage in intelligence activities. That's what Säpo's got in mind. We are trying to cooperate with the other countries. However, it is not unambiguously easy simply to expel all persons, because there is retalization. It can be problematic for Sweden, and it can be problematic for those who have smaller embassies than Sweden. That is why we are trying to do it responsibly but still to mark. These discussions are currently in full swing.
i-KTo8ZgtzycTsVY2fjohFRE	Madam President, I would like I understood that. My question was more specific. Is it not reasonable for us in Sweden to make our own assessment just like the states I have just listed? Or is the attitude that we should wait for everyone to do exactly the same? I think it is better to do as the countries that have now taken that step. It may also be an example for other countries to follow. It is unacceptable not to do anything.
i-AEn3jzRfZGJKEjhy6aJXdn	Madam President, I would like Of course, we should make our own decision on this matter. But it is also good to see how we can both interact with others and make sure that we do not cause major problems either for ourselves or for others. That is how a responsible government acts, and that is how our government acts.
i-A1Drz8PXgJVzZrWAKM9TLE	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Dahlgren and is quite simple.
i-7iFsfdNvVrn6q7SuR3i1dG	Further: How does the government work to include oligarchs such as Arkadij Rotenberg, Oleg Deripaska and Suleiman Kerimov on the EU sanctions list? These are oligarchs who apparently have very close ties with the Russian regime.
i-QRQ36EHj2Fd7hu3HQgNtDR	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Nilsson, for the question. It is an important and sharp instrument available to the European Union to impose economic sanctions on Russia and Russian banks. It is also a question of putting on lists those who support Russia's warfare in Ukraine or otherwise contribute to the actions of the Russian regime. The answer to the concrete question of how the government works is that we are negotiating with our other 26 Member States of the Union to reach unanimity on additional sanctions and on further listings. It is not always as easy as it was at the beginning, because it is important both to plug the holes that can be found in the sanctions that we already have and to list additional sanctions. And there it is a question of finding unanimity. There is no point in one country going forward after another after another, but in doing so together. That is the most useful thing, and that is why we are working in this way.
i-3tCVqmkfRyyLADHQ3wPDXX	Madam President, I would like Thank you to the Government for your answer! If one is to find unity, one should find it in the middle, but then it also requires that there are countries that go ahead. Otherwise the balance will not be right; then it will become too weak. My question is therefore: is it not the government's view that more Russian banks should be included in the suspension from Swift?
i-8DyFhkUfQNpAYUejn8GyL	Madam President, I would like Well, Sweden is one of the countries that has gone ahead in proposing which sanctions can be imposed on Russia in connection with the war in Ukraine. At the same time, it is a fact that, in the face of every decision, a balance must be struck: does this sanction do such a great harm or does it put so much pressure on the Russian regime that it is worth the negative effects it has on our own countries? Or could it be that it has more negative repercussions on us than damage to Russia? That balance must always be struck.
i-RyVVq6X6rL6cByC4b2Nvqx	Madam President, I would like Exactly a week ago, we gathered in this House to listen to Volodymyr Zelenskyj own words: No barrels of Russian oil! No barrels of Russian oil – that was one of his clearest messages to us in Sweden. I do not understand why Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde and the Swedish Government are now following his call and stopping the import of Russian fossil energy into Sweden. Poland has already declared that it is no longer possible to wait for unity in Europe. We who can go ahead must go ahead. Sweden has the opportunity to reduce our contribution into the Russian war treasury. It is our responsibility to do everything we can to put an end to the horror scenes that are now taking place in Mariupol and other Ukrainian cities.
i-wPsjFK7WviAJ258Wb4aTm	Madam President, I would like On 25 March, EU Heads of State or Government agreed to gradually reduce dependence on imports of gas, oil and coal from Russia as soon as possible. We believe that this is central both to the question of Ukraine and to the question of green conversion. We have welcomed the fact that Germany, for example, has suspended the certification of Nord Stream 2, which is part of the same package. But the important thing here is that we are united and not that Sweden takes precedence. Sweden has very low use of Russian oil and gas.
i-5DJdyztHUrsqphWC8VnvJ4	Madam President, I would like With all due respect, Minister of Foreign Affairs, the important thing is to strangle the influx of money into Putin's war fund. We who can go ahead must go ahead. Sweden could send a clear signal that we are now resorting to the hardest tool in the arsenal: We are strangling our imports of Russian fossil energy. Sweden can go ahead, and Sweden should go ahead – just like Poland, which has now said that it should stop importing coal.
i-7HC6isXhvktti28ar5Yzem	Madam President, I would like With all due respect, Annika Hirvonen: It is very easy for us in Sweden to beat our chests and say that we should go ahead, because we have almost no imports of Russian oil and very little imports of Russian gas. If Sweden were to score its own points, we would at the same time break the unity of EU sanctions, that is to say, we would destroy the unity that exists. This is a terrible way of ensuring that sanctions are effective. I very much hope that we will have even more effective sanctions. We're not gonna do what Annika Hirvonen wants.
i-MPF6xyyvxvAhYynHEmGo3n	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Johansson. Since the turn of the government in 2014, we have seen a strong growth in total defence in terms of both military capabilities and civilian preparedness. We note that military spending increases have been the largest since the Second World War. But civilian preparedness is also important when we build total defence. There are two abilities that are interdependent and mutually reinforcing. We note that civil defence also receives a fair share of 4.2 billion. This is the biggest investment in modern times. On 8 March, the Swedish Defence Committee reached an agreement with the Government for an additional SEK 800 million to strengthen civil defence. My question to Minister Johansson is: What measures does the government see in terms of time beyond the 800 million crowns? What happens now?
i-TXzDrDyQD2FR4dbWYCTu52	Madam President, I would like We follow every week and every day how Russia in Ukraine attacks a defenceless civilian population and how such warfare can be done. It is crimes against international law and war crimes for which Russia is responsible and for which it must be accountable sooner or later. This underlines the importance of strengthening and strengthening our civilian preparedness. A state has a moral duty to do what it can to try to protect the civilian population. Niklas Karlsson pointed out the extra resources that now come with the deal a few weeks ago. This means an additional SEK 800 million for civilian preparedness and also SEK 4.2 billion for the coming years. Today, we in the government have decided on two missions to MSB to explain how this money will be used in the most effective way to sharpen and strengthen civilian preparedness.
i-TMd9utVfmcaYyTbi8VK2Mm	Madam President, I would like A particular part of civil defence is cyber security. This is something that many people are concerned about today, not least in view of developments in Russia and Ukraine.
i-SLPCmrWkg7F4UEPbje9WAU	Madam President, I would like It is well known that Russia, for example, has an ability – and sometimes also may well have a motivation and a will – to interfere with and attack other countries' IT systems. In modern societies, such as the Swedish one, we know that this can lead to enormous problems and knock out parts of our infrastructure. Therefore, the government has taken the initiative to set up a dedicated cybersecurity centre together with four authorities, and the authorities are now working hard to ensure that this institution is in place and able to face this threat.
i-E491kKV7V2kcvYYwqR3zYZ	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Secretary of State. In the European Council's re-report of 16 March in this House, Prime Magdalena Andersson referred to the EU's Article 42(7) of the Treaty as a defence clause in connection with the increased threat to Sweden. The article is important in order to emphasise that EU countries stand up for each other in the event of war or crisis. However, unlike NATO, the EU has very limited military planning and limited available forces to deploy. Today's planning is limited to the EU's foreign efforts. The planning to face armed intervention on European soil is non-existent. NATO, on the other hand, has for decades this capacity and is also carrying out regular exercises to face an armed attack along the entire conflict scale. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs what abilities and planning capacity the EU has that could replace NATO's Article 5 in the event of a Russian attack on Sweden.
i-9enuVzoKfQSkGEZDxL57ZB	Madam President, I would like Of course, Article 42(7) cannot replace or compare with Article 5. Article 42(7) states that in the event of an attack on one of the EU Member States, all other countries shall participate in some way. You can choose the way you want to participate, but this is not a military defence guarantee. However, we can note that when the article has been used, namely during the terrorist attacks in Paris, Sweden chose to help, among other things, military. It was then a question of combating terrorism by participating in military forces in the Sahel. So that's up to every situation. However, this is a very important solidarity clause, something that was also underlined by Olaf Scholz from Germany when the Prime Minister met him on Monday.
i-251Pa9Cz7JTEg8Y17nmX1B	Madam President, I would like I would like to address my question to the Minister for Justice and Home Affairs. Europe and Sweden are in a very difficult security policy situation. The decision has been made to build up the country's defence capabilities in order to defend our country by military means if, God forbid, it should be necessary. The Swedish Armed Forces have made it very clear that the military defence cannot function without a well-developed civil defence. All Swedish citizens and others who live in Sweden and are between 16 and 70 years old are subject to total defence. Under the obligation of total defence, I am obliged to serve in the total defence as either a conscript, a civil servant or a public servant. Civil service had its heyday at the end of the 1990s, when the government aimed to train 10 000 municipal emergency workers per year. Since 2008, civil duty has been suspended, and no one is being trained for tasks in civil defence.
i-BFZbKNLhQgSXNL18KqsDtw	Madam President, I would like The short answer to that question is yes. MSB has a mission to look at the security of personnel precisely in terms of civilian preparedness and the tasks that need to be resolved within the framework of it. They will come to the government in a few weeks' time with their assessment of this, and there, of course, the issue of civil service is also on the table. In order to support the work of both the authorities and the municipal sector on civilian preparedness, we are also deploying historically large resources to restore civilian preparedness: an additional SEK 800 million this year, plus gradually increasing aid by up to 4.2 billion from 2025 onwards. So we are doing a great deal of rearmament here and we are making sure that the elements that need to be modernised are restored and modernised. But we will also understand that there is a great deal of work ahead of us in these parts.
i-BQ2UgKwY3LPqBKvc6aFJbq	Madam President, I would like Today it is five weeks since Putin invaded and began his last war against Ukraine, a war with a clear goal and with incredible consequences for all of us – not least for the Ukrainian people, of course, who are affected daily by missiles and being driven on the run. On 11 April, in a week and a half, the Foreign Minister will meet his colleagues in the Foreign Affairs Council. The question is: is there a package of sanctions in place to close the holes in the case of banks, oligarchs and people in Russia, but also Belarus? I also wonder whether the issue of the expulsion of both belarusian and Russian intelligence officers will come up.
i-FKzQ6iJGfGukTtSb3HKkpE	Madam President, I would like It is planned for a fifth package of sanctions, but I am not sure that it will be ready for the next meeting of foreign ministers. It may be, but it's not safe. Sweden conducts an active activity to bring up more and stronger sanctions. We have put our own proposals on the table, and we also support other proposals. On our part, we have said that nothing is out of the question of sanctions. However, I would like to repeat what I have said many times: what has made European sanctions so effective is precisely that we have been able to maintain unity so that some countries do not do in one way and others do in another way. We have managed to agree, and it has put a great deal of pressure on countries which, on certain issues, have been less inclined to agree to sanctions.
i-BQV1ouQ6n5HuwxsXAeoyh4	Madam President, I would like I would like to address my question to the Minister for Justice and Home Affairs. I have noted and seen it as positive that the Equality Agency has been given an additional SEK 4 million to strengthen its work against the exploitation of children, prostitution and human trafficking in general. These are funds that have been added because we have refugee flows from Ukraine that are particularly vulnerable. It is mainly about women and children. Unfortunately, this work, which is supposed to be preventive, will not succeed fully. Is the Minister prepared to demand that the police have strengthened their focus on these categories of crime?
i-P6p1iniXcah1BCV64QieRf	Madam President, I would like It is clear that we can always do more, but the police already have such a mission to prioritise crimes against, as we say, particularly vulnerable victims. It is about human trafficking and those who are victims of trafficking, it is about crimes against women and it is about crimes against children. A few years ago, the police recruited 350 special investigators precisely to investigate these crimes more effectively than before. We will also ensure that the police have both the resources and the tools they need for this. This is an absolutely disgusting activity – to exploit women and children who are in the most vulnerable situation you can imagine and who are fleeing from war and hardships. It is completely absurd and totally unacceptable that they should then find themselves in a new, vulnerable situation and be exploited in this way in Western Europe. We will, of course, ensure that the police have the resources they need to investigate these crimes.
i-L9hFgPVTwpGmX89DfPmEoj	Madam President, I would like I would like to address my question to Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson. The shootings in Sweden continue and reach new frightening levels. The introduction of 2022 has the highest number registered in the last five years – 18 people have so far been killed in Sweden in the 72 shootings registered by the police. The fact that the shootings continue at a high rate on Swedish streets is terrible and can only be seen as a failure for the government that has been responsible for almost two terms of office. In two letters, last at the end of 2021, the Head of the Swedish Police has asked for increased powers and legislative changes to meet the escalation of violence. However, the government has not met with proposals as requested by the police. The trend must be broken. The gang's violence must be stopped. There is a proposal for a committee initiative in the Justice Committee that meets the request of the Head of State Police, but the Social Democrats will vote it down. Will the Minister of Justice meet the Commissioner of State's request for action when, through his actions, Mr S of the Committee on Justice rejects this request?
i-UqQg8u59ZU9avwkGzr64Ba	Madam President, I would like It is true that there is a proposal for a committee initiative, which normally only opens open doors. That is what the opposition is doing these days. If you have nothing to do with it, you try to tell the government that what you are already doing, you have to do even more of it. Of course we listen to it, but just note: Since we took office in 2014, we have changed Swedish criminal policy. Now we have more severe punishment than ever in modern times. We've got more cops than ever. We have better tools for the police than ever. We have more cameras set up than ever before. In fact, we also have more detainees than ever before. People who used to run around with guns in town are now in the cage. Why are the shootings continuing? I think it's about that for every guy we take, there's another one behind in line to step in his shoes and succeed him in the gang. It tells us that it must become even more important with and even greater focus on the preventive efforts to break the new recruitment to the criminal gangs. This involves another type of initiative – school, social services and leisure activities. Preventive action must be stepped up.
i-YBkPf93yddJSDxMZyi1NLP	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde. The Yemeni conflict has now been going on for almost eight years. The humanitarian disaster that already exists in the country is exacerbated by the war in Ukraine. This leads to higher fuel prices and higher food prices. The need to reach a peaceful solution remains urgent. On Tuesday, a large meeting was launched in Riyadh in the Gulf Cooperation Council focusing on dialogue between Yemeni political actors. Sweden has a special role to play in the resolution of conflicts in Yemen. Can the Minister of Foreign Affairs tell you what entry Sweden has in the talks and what prospects you see for success in them after your recent trip to the area? And what is Sweden doing for the peace efforts in Yemen?
i-S3cw6KXCbdGhLzVDqRktzw	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Diana Laitinen Carlsson. On Monday and Tuesday, I visited Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates to conduct Yemen talks. Both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Yemen are stationed in Saudi Arabia. I also spoke that way on behalf of the European Union. The problem is that there are very few flashes of light in this terrible conflict which is still the biggest humanitarian disaster. Wheat prices have risen, which means that there are another 3 million Yemenites, a total of almost 23 million, on the verge of starvation. It is a fragmented society with several different Yemeni groups fighting against each other, either militarily, like the Huthians, or for greater self-government. We hope that these ten days of Yemeni talks will lead to better cohesion in Yemen.
i-8tmSCrb6bkzbXTpY6XNH5P	Madam President, I would like I intend to put my question to Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. There are passkaos in Sweden. The queues are long, and in several places there are no openings before August. This is a problem for those who want to go on vacation, but it is also a problem for the Swedish Armed Forces. Right now, a number of girls and guys are preparing to serve in Mali. In order to fulfil their commitments, they need valid passports. Those without passports are now looking for times all over Sweden to get their travel documents. It would be natural for the Armed Forces not to be hindered by long passes. The consequence may otherwise be that those who are going cannot go and that those who would go home must remain in order for Sweden to fulfil its commitments in Mali.
i-QR7U7V2PRxZEesDR1j8J4Q	Madam President, I would like We had a little conference here, me and the Secretary of Defense, and we came to the conclusion that this is about the police's passport management. That's why I'm answering the question. I had a conversation with the chief police officer earlier this week about what is being done to strengthen the efforts regarding passports. What you are now doing is hiring and training new staff – it takes about a week for the police to hire more staff to speed up passport management – moving staff to reinforce that part, increasing the opening hours of the police to allow more people to apply for a passport and continuously releasing new times for those who want to apply for a passport. In addition, the robot bookings have been stopped, which have been a problem, and the systems are also being changed in order to be able to move to bank-id verification. It's on its way, too. This will, of course, make things easier for the public, but also, of course, for the group that Mrs Cecilie Toftby asked her question about.
i-E9uMrTQwwgn2JTPWxU6mbV	Madam President, I would like In recent years, we have seen several examples of criminals receiving enormous compensation after being imprisoned for crimes they have actually committed. They have also lied about their age and refused to help in the investigation, which has made it difficult for the courts to make a correct assessment. In time, they have appealed their convictions and received a lower penalty at higher courts. Damages then arise because they have sat longer than they would if they had stated the correct age and helped in the investigation from the beginning. It is unreasonable that our common resources should go to great damages to criminals who have themselves put themselves in the situation and caused the damage themselves by lying. Why have the government and Morgan Johansson not corrected this deficiency, as the rules on damages are now being amended?
i-7fiisVGsuMWYSZj4C9BsMZ	Madam President, I would like In fact, we have done so because the significance of the proposals we have been working on and putting on the table of Parliament is that we are doubling the compensation for the victims of crime and at the same time making it possible to award damages to the offender in a way that we have not been able to do before when there are debts to the state. With regard to the specific case that Mikael Eskilandersson is talking about where an offender received a very high level of compensation, if these rules, as we are now proposing, had not been applied today, he would not have received a penny, for the damages he had been awarded would have been automatically foreclosed and recovered. The short answer to the question is that we are addressing the problem that Mikael Eskilandersson points out with the legislative proposals that have now been put on the table of Parliament.
i-4XDtuBvvd5PWNk6DM45Xbj	Madam President, I would like I have warned the Minister for Foreign Affairs about a question, but if Hans Dahlgren or Morgan Johansson would like to reply, I will not be offended at all. My question concerns the long-term support for Ukraine. The German Olaf Scholz has said that a new Marshall Plan is needed, and representatives of the Center Party have agreed with that view in this House. After the war, long-term support is needed to rebuild the war-torn Ukraine and ensure that Ukraine can take its place in the European Community and does not slip into an unstable situation due to the damage caused by the war. This support will probably have to go much further than the aid that Sweden already provides. I understand that much of our focus now is and needs to be on humanitarian, economic and military support for Ukraine, but both for those who are fighting for Ukraine's freedom and for those who are forced to flee, I think it is an extremely important signal to say: we will not only support you during the war and until the war is won, but also after the war to rebuild a better Ukraine. How does the government view it?
i-Txy3okyeS4iAKA5jnyt8VZ	Madam President, I would like We agree 100% with the Center Party and Magnus Ek about this. That is why we from Sweden, together with Poland, have tabled a proposal for reconstruction and for us to start such work. I spoke to my Polish Foreign Minister in Warsaw about this last week, and we agreed that we should take this initiative. The prime ministers of Sweden and Poland also addressed this at the EU summit. It is good if we can get the whole of Europe to agree to this, because we cannot just look at this problem in the short term. If we are to build this country, we must start preparing for it now, because otherwise it will never work. So I fully agree with the questioner.
i-M7r7BTcy52niumcd9M4AHY	Madam President, I would like The Islamic group of Taliban has introduced a caliphate in which half the population, made up of women and children, must not move in public. The other day, the Taliban ordered airlines in Afghanistan to reject women if they do not have a male guardian with them. Since before, women are forbidden to travel without male companionship. Last week, girls were allowed to return to school, but it turned out only to younger children, up to grade 6. Women and men must not go to parks and cultural events together. Gender apartheid therefore applies in Afghanistan. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: will Sweden raise the situation of women in the EU and the UN so that a caliphate, an Islamic state, is not consolidated and legitimised in Afghanistan?
i-W4ReBywMd9s6fJuQ4LFyxc	Madam President, I would like What Amineh Kakabaverh mentions and that the self-appointed Taliban regime on 23 March broke the promise that girls and women above the sixth grade would also be allowed to attend school and at the university is deeply outrageous. The international community has reacted very strongly. Despite the reprehensible behaviour of the Taliban, we must continue to fight for the Afghan people and girls to have access to education. We want to provide support to girls and women in Afghanistan without legitimising the Taliban regime, and therefore we do not have direct contact with the Taliban regime. For feminist foreign policy, this is also important. Together with 15 women foreign ministers, I wrote an article that has been published in newspapers in various parts of the world a few days ago.
i-VCRz3vdfunB8ZXEKgo3AnK	Madam President, I would like I am making another attempt to put a question to Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. Over the past six months, a number of new defence activities have been inaugurated around the country, in locations such as Östersund, Sollefteå and Falun. Now the government has announced new major investments in defence equivalent to 2 per cent of GDP due to the sharp deterioration in the international situation. I noted that the Minister of Defence visited Kiruna the other day, and my question is whether the Minister of Defence sees a need for new defence establishments in northernmost Sweden to strengthen our ability to strengthen our ability alone and together with our neighbouring countries Finland and Norway at the North Calott.
i-Th94unWyKLTZxJeeUwFK6i	Madam President, I would like The situation is that there is an agreement between Norway, Finland and Sweden to develop what is called coordinated planning precisely for how we should handle a possible crisis situation in the northernmost part of Sweden. We have also added a mission to the Swedish Armed Forces to be reported in November this year on the type of measures that need to be taken to strengthen the Swedish Defence Organisation in the upper part of Norrland. We have a special resource in the form of the Lapland Hunter Group and the activities carried out at Kalixfors, just outside Kiruna, which belongs to the Lapland Hunter Group. There are thoughts and ideas that we need to develop more. This will also be a matter for the forthcoming defence deliberations.
i-8L9RMLLC2MoqepvbjN4zag	Madam President, I would like Before Christmas, Ekot on Swedish Radio was able to report that they could send e-mails that appeared to come from the official e-mail address of Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. The fake e-mails had been sent to, among other things, the Swedish Defence Radio Agency (FRA). It is, of course, the authority responsible, among other things, for supporting the other authorities with regard to the information security of state-owned companies. Just over a week ago, March 22, the same radio channel and program, Ekot, reported that the same thing could be done again. My brief yes-or-no question to Minister of Justice and Home Affairs Morgan Johansson is therefore: Can unauthorized people still send emails that appear to come from Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist?
i-B4qV1G9Q6TvWNGaGyPrexo	Madam President, I would like We do not usually comment on what unauthorized persons can or cannot do when it comes to security issues. But let me just assure Jörgen Berglund that the Government Office and its administration department are doing what they can to secure our IT systems as well. This is of course particularly important in the light of what I was talking about earlier, i.e. there may be situations where foreign power and others may want to get into our systems. Let me say to Jörgen Berglund that the administrative department at the Government Office is working very actively on this and will continue to do so to ensure that any gaps are closed.
i-JZHS2CtGiJ9RxrfcqvSghN	Madam President, I would like The sky-high sosse prices of fuels hit households, farms and other entrepreneurs hard. The background to this is, as is known, the Swedish reduction obligation. The European Commission is now calling on countries to reduce the involvement of biofuels in order to reduce pressure on food and feed prices. My question to Minister Hans Dahlgren is: How does the Government see that the Commission is now making this call, and is the government also prepared to listen and adjust the Swedish reduction obligation?
i-6BbP57MJbEWxKJtsqNHGXv	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Martin Kinnunen, for the question! The government is always prepared to listen to the Commission. Then we can have different views on the wisdom of what the Commission is proposing in different cases. In this case, the government itself has said that we are prepared to pause the implementation of the reduction obligation, so I think we can meet the Commission at least in part. However, the Commission has also promised, right after the summit held last week by the European leaders, to come back with a series of proposals on how to deal with the problems that Martin Kinnunen is talking about.
i-EgW2tj4ZZJTzNMTk9icV6T	Madam President, I would like Russia's illegal invasion of Ukraine has changed the conditions and the road map for European cooperation in just a few weeks. In a very short time, the EU has been dealing with historically harsh sanctions packages against Russia and military and humanitarian aid to Ukraine. The war has created huge flows of refugees to several Member States, an escalating energy crisis and a completely changed security regime with major implications for how we view European defence cooperation. This was the year in which the European Union would begin the real recovery after the pandemic, and we would tackle the economic and social consequences of the Corona crisis. My question goes to Minister Dahlgren: Does the Minister think that, with the experience we have gained from the Corona crisis, the EU can deal with the crises and difficulties we face and the effects of the war in Ukraine?
i-M6fX71U21sMWgF2WujuFDT	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Rojhan Gustafsson, for the question! These two historical data have been enormous for each Member State but also for the Union as a whole. Both called for efforts that we have not planned for. As far as the pandemic is concerned, European cooperation did not go well at the outset. There, each country did a little for itself as it thought was best, which damaged European cohesion at the very beginning. But then things went better. I believe that the results of much of what happened during the pandemic – the joint procurement of vaccines and the joint recovery plan – also demonstrate the strength of cohesion. Then came the war, and there too, as the Foreign Minister said earlier, the strength has really been shown in the unity that has enabled us to achieve rapid results in order to put pressure on Russia, to support Ukraine and to strengthen ourselves. This is the experience we can draw. I am not sure that we would have been as fast and as strong if we had not also gone through the pandemic together. The Minister of Defence's attitude towards Swedish NATO membership
i-SLVXM34zf4g4Ttb5nWhyAJ	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Secretary of Defense. The Prime Minister has now opened up to NATO membership. Now that the Russian invasion of Ukraine has taken place and the Prime Minister has spoken out on NATO, has this affected the defence minister's own attitude as to whether Sweden should join NATO?
i-9R4wYrA72JkkB98uXd4EmY	Madam President, I would like I represent a government, and the government's position is that the military freedom of alliance remains intact. However, we have a security policy group made up of all political parties which, under the leadership of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, are now carrying out a work that will look at all aspects of our various defence cooperation, how they will develop and what security policy doctrine will apply to Sweden for the future. This includes making a proper analysis of what is happening in Russia, the effects of the war in Ukraine and what kind of architecture we should build to be as safe as possible for the future. We will do what is best for Sweden. This is the platform, and that is the work to be done.
i-48EToQ5WX1m9mT4oEgq3ZR	Madam President, I would like I would also like to raise an issue on which several others have spoken in the past and which I have also raised with the Foreign Minister in other ways, namely that of Russian intelligence officers in Sweden. As is well known, it is a security threat to Sweden, and it is very much a national matter to expel them. I have listened to what the Foreign Minister says when she stresses the importance of unity within the EU, and I agree that it is positive if several countries can act together. However, as others have said, other countries have made a completely different assessment. We have Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Bulgaria, the Netherlands and Poland as an example. These have made a completely different assessment. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: how come they have made that assessment? And why is it that Sweden has not done so? What is it that makes Sweden listen to any reprisals that might come from Russia?
i-4kxKf3BmyVmZLcpYyZhZvT	Madam President, I would like It is totally unacceptable if we engage in illegal intelligence activities in Sweden under diplomatic cover. We fight this in different ways. How to deal with it is an issue that concerns, among other things, our own ability to operate in Russia. We know that every time we expel diplomats from Sweden, the same happens to Swedish diplomats in Russia. That is why we must ensure that these decisions are taken in a way that does not harm ourselves and that, at the same time, we can have control over what is happening in Sweden. We are hard on the fact that this is not acceptable and that we are in control of what is happening. We will also look at – and we have done so over time – how to expel people.
i-FVzYtx3d1jNijCMKqVq9nr	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Johansson. The drug trade feeds criminal networks, and the rivalry of the drug market often leads to violent deals. At the beginning of the year two travelling men were arrested in my hometown of Luleå with 40 kilos of cannabis. It was, according to the media, the biggest bust made. This is part of the change you see, with major drug seizures on the streets and an increased influx of drugs to Norrbotten. Criminal networks are looking north to secure new markets, expand customer data and expand their own domains. The strangulation of drug trafficking is an important measure. What is the government doing to ensure that society can vigorously combat drugs and also counteract criminal gangs' attempts to establish new drug markets in Norrbotten and Norrland?
i-HezKxnaA4zHARVV9SRG31F	Madam President, I would like As Fredrik Lundh Sammeli says, drug trafficking is in many ways a key to gang crime. That's how they make their money. It is also often the source of the conflicts that exist. It is therefore important to remain firm in the fight against drug trafficking. Some parties are pushing to decriminalise their own use. It would be a huge gift to the criminal gangs, for it would of course only increase their ability to sell drugs. So what do we do? Yes, of course, we're strengthening the police and the DA's office so we can get to this in a better way. I got a report from the 12 authorities working against organized crime on Tuesday. They could show the results. They have been able to seize hundreds of kilos of cannabis, 127 kilos of amphetamine, amphetamine oil, a lot of cocaine, and so on. It is a question of continuing to cooperate with these authorities to ensure that the fight against drug trafficking is stepped up and strengthened.
i-JxZKCxYMLWq3bEvrCjHBd8	Madam President, I would like A man hit a woman in the face with a hard thing. The woman suffered severe tooth damage. One tooth was knocked out, and another tooth was knocked off in half. The man was sentenced for assault of the standard grade, with the penalty value of three months' imprisonment, by both district court and court of appeal. Recently, the penalty rebate for young adults in serious crime, i.e. for crimes with a minimum sentence of one year's imprisonment or a penalty value of one year's imprisonment or more, was abolished. We Moderates believe that this is not enough, but that the penalty rebate should be removed for all crimes for all persons of age. Morgan Johansson's amendment therefore means: When a 20-year-old knocks out his girlfriend's teeth, he still gets a penalty discount, as this is considered as assault by the normal level. I wonder how a government that's feminist might think that a 20-year-old who knocks off his girlfriend will get a penalty discount.
i-S83BCX8Kc5G9jMrPsbw9k2	Madam President, I would like As I said, we abolished the reduction in the penalties for young people for crimes that could result in more than a year's imprisonment. There is also a penalty valve in that part, so that one can actually ensure that the penalty reduction is gone even in the case of crimes that do not have a year on the penalty scale – this applies when the individual crime would give more. You have to assess this on a case-by-case basis. But it should also be remembered, I think, that removing the entire reduction in penalties for all young people, whether they have committed crimes in the past or what kind of crime it is, means that this also applies to individual crimes and perhaps also crimes of a nature that Ellen Juntti is not now thinking about. The concern is that this would have to be financed with much larger amounts. I note that, as usual, the Moderates have not bothered to finance the penalties they propose in Parliament.
i-6vdeNhPdUrj6oDuHMVX8BH	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Justice and Home Affairs Morgan Johansson. Small entrepreneurs often have electricity bills integrated – it is a private invoice and the company's – but different electricity meters. This makes it easier for the electricity supplier to invoice in a property. My question concerns how the tax cuts in electricity are applied. Many small businesses have a business name in the private property, and they have different electricity meters. Since the different electricity meters have different tax rates, and business meters have a lower tax rate, this also goes into the business. Now there has been no tax deduction for the private invoice. Then an appeal has been made to actually obtain the tax relief that the government has decided on.
i-RwAE1qAwVwRBAoJrrDup1e	Madam President, I would like I think I'll have to refer to the responsible minister in that part. If I am not wrong on general policy issues, they should be of a more general and horizontal nature. Otherwise, it will be a matter of the official duties of the Government. I have to apologize for not knowing the details of which meter to tax and how to use these deductions. I would ask you to refer to the responsible Minister on this matter.
i-WWmKdtJZNo4UVgMCN4wnbX	Madam President, I would like The government will soon come up with a proposal for stricter rules on expulsion due to crime. The background to this is in part the fact that since the 1980s the Supreme Court has gradually tightened up what is required to expel people who have lived in Sweden for some time. This also applies to quite serious crime. The rule of extraordinary reasons, which seems offensive to many, will now disappear. However, the extension assessment will still take into account the duration of the stay. On the basis of the legislative referral, it is rather unclear what the weight of that factor will be. After all, the question will be decided by the practitioner. Does Morgan Johansson believe that there is a risk, given how practices in this area have developed in the past, that this reform will not have a particularly strong impact in the longer term?
i-2hmMgu8r93nBn28rUhA19e	Madam President, I would like No, I believe that this will have a very significant impact, because the legislation is clear in this part. We are increasing the possibilities of expulsion due to crime. You'll be able to be deported for more crimes. It will also be possible to expel people for a longer period of time than before. With regard to the connection issue, it is also ensured that the threshold is significantly lowered compared to what has been in force in the past. After all, we have had a couple of rather offensive cases, I would say, where the connection issue has been applied in a way that is not defensible in my view. The short answer to Ludvig Aspling is: my assessment is that this legislation will have a very important future impact on expulsion decisions. Then it is a question of ensuring that the countries to which it refers also receive their own citizens. It can sometimes be the basic problem. Then it is a matter of ensuring that they continue to work very intensively towards those countries to ensure that they take their international legal obligations seriously.
i-Rb3ZwRXrio5qFJL1gmKVBG	Madam President, I would like For us Social Democrats, it is important to have an effective and locally based police force. Much of the public debate today rightly focuses on how to combat organised crime, put an end to the shootings and stop gang violence in our big cities. It's important. But we also need to see that insecurity takes different forms. In my county of Norrbotten, which is a quarter of the country's total area, we live scattered, from town to small town to sparsely populated. But no matter where you live, you should be able to feel safe all hours of the day. We cannot accept that people feel insecure in their residential area because of criminal gangs or that those living in sparsely populated areas are not sure whether the police come when they call. The investment in the police that is going on is therefore incredibly important. 10 000 more police workers will be one of the most important in increasing the security of the entire population. I would like to ask the Minister of Justice how the government will ensure that this reinforcement of the police will benefit the whole country and that the local presence will take place.
i-6r8ZqUUTmpdLhwf2rUUchQ	Madam President, I would like We do this through clear instructions to the police, among other things, via our regulatory letters. As we now make this historic effort at the Police Authority, it is important for us, as Linus Sköld says, that it really matters to the whole country and that you can see it everywhere. It is only to be noted that the situation is different in different parts of the country. We often focus on gang-related crime in big cities, but in other parts of the country crime may be quite different. Whatever the case, you have to make sure that there is a strong police presence. We do this through our instructions, and we also see that what we have done in recent years is actually starting to have an effect. We have the largest number of police officers ever and even the largest number of police employees ever. 600 policemen came out of business just a few months ago, and 800 more will be out in a few months. They will be distributed fairly throughout the country. This is a very important issue for us to continue.
i-78LWZAKQ3hKgctUhix63nw	Madam President, I would like Finally, we can continue this climate debate! In a few years now, we have been through a pandemic of rarely seen cases of demand and thus also severe reductions in emissions. We have moved on to a recovery that has brought with it massive increases in emissions globally. Now we are in a new crisis as a result of Russia's war. It is still difficult to know what consequences it will have in terms of climate policy at global level. It is conceivable that the shortage of gas and other things could lead to increased consumption of both oil and coal, which in turn could increase emissions. Madam President, I would like What the war shows is how dependent the countries of the world are on energy and, at the same time, that hopes for new sources of energy rarely have direct contact with the reality of the situation. The Western world has been changing down for many years when it comes to the extraction of raw materials. Despite a great need for gas, metals and agricultural inputs, production in Europe has generally decreased. Countries want access to oil, gas, precious metals, fertilizers and more, but we do not want to soil ourselves by having these activities in our vicinity. This forces us to rely on a great many states on which we would certainly not want to depend. Madam President, I would like Sweden is a shining example of this. The food sector is being prioritised downwards. The former S-MP government has categorically stopped mineral extraction, for example, by allowing decisions to be drawn on a long bench, issuing negative decisions or relying on the Kafka-like Swedish environmental permit processes. In this way, the shutdown policy has been maintained. It has also succeeded in bringing about a sharp deterioration in the investment climate in the Swedish mineral industry. Several stop laws for individual minerals help to undermine the credibility of Sweden as a mining nation. A further halting law will soon be dealt with in this House. Madam President, I would like What Sweden needs is more understanding that the climate issue is global and that the transition is just a continuous transformation and nothing that is carried out at the touch of a button. An example of what happens when you imagine that it should be about a button press could be the Swedish reduction obligation. The government and the other seven parties chose to look unilaterally at a sector's based climate targets for road traffic. The reduction obligation was identified as perhaps the only tool for achieving this goal. This may be correct. The problem is the objective and the measure. From the Swedish Democrats' side, we warned early on about the consequences of the intermediate road traffic target. We also warned against the consequences of the reduction obligation before it was introduced. We recommend today that the Swedish reduction obligation be severely limited to a reduction of 5% for diesel and 2% for petrol. In this connection, I would like to endorse reservation 43. Madam President, I would like Today we are faced with the fact that we have the world's most expensive diesel in our elongated country, which is extremely dependent on transport. We have prices that are about SEK 4 higher than in Denmark. In Denmark, the tax is at the same time higher than it is here in Sweden on diesel. From the SD's side, we welcome the fact that more parties have now woken up and realised the unsustainableness of the Swedish reduction obligation. We are not saving the climate by introducing a radical reduction obligation and importing 90% of the raw materials. Doing this in the midst of a burning food crisis is particularly irresponsible. For this reason, the government should follow the European Commission's call and reduce the involvement of biofuels in our fuels. In this way, we can support households and companies suffering from high fuel prices. At the same time, we can help to increase the supply of food and feed, which will ultimately determine how many more people will suffer from hunger in the next few years in the world. The fact that we are entering a food crisis seems quite clear. The question is how serious it will be. Madam President, I would like On the part of the Swedish Democrats, we are clear that we are behind the Paris Agreement and the ambition to push down emissions at a global level so that temperature increases end up at a manageable level. Policy must therefore be characterised by efficiency, and it must be combined with increased economic prosperity. The cure must not be worse than the disease. We should not go through demand cases like that during the pandemic simply to reduce emissions. For this to be possible, we have to settle some contradictions in climate policy, both in Sweden and globally. The Swedish electricity supply is a good example of what happens when governments get lost among different goals. In Sweden today we have a fully regulated electricity market characterised by a wide range of instruments and also bans. There is a good reason for many regulations. Electricity isn't just any item. For our high-tech society to function, electricity must be available at all times, and the price must be at a relatively low level in order to maintain our competitiveness. To then have a policy target of 100% renewable and regulatory framework that significantly impairs the possibility of building new nuclear power is not reasonable. It is permitted to build nuclear power, it is said from some quarters. But it is only allowed for a few companies in a few places in Sweden, and only one type of reactor is allowed to be built. For example, it is forbidden to build a reactor in southern Sweden where it would be most profitable. Adding that one of the companies was forced to suspend the plans for new nuclear power in order for the S-government to take office with the help of the MP, one can today say that there is a political ban on new nuclear power, because the limits set by the policy are so extensive. Madam President, I would like Sweden currently has a state-owned energy company. It is reasonable for the state, through its ownership, to be able to see both the socio-economic benefits and the importance of climate policy in our region when considering investments. If you look at the company's own profitability in isolation, it can be much better with widely varying prices and shortcomings in the system sometimes. But Sweden needs new nuclear power and political will to make this possible. It is about research, owner directives to Vattenfall and regulations for how to get approval to build new nuclear power. Madam President, I would like We need to work more to combine growth and job creation with creating climate benefits. As long as we have a situation where emissions are at a significantly lower level in Sweden compared to our surrounding world, we have a great opportunity to contribute to climate benefit with our exports. The more goods and services produced in Sweden, the more we can displace emissions-intensive production from other countries. If only the indirect climate benefits of exports are taken into account, it can be noted that exports currently contribute to the reduction of emissions in a quantity greater than all emissions in the transport sector. There is a great potential here to do even more good.
i-4kpQTMm5pGjvv1mUonbcgK	Madam President, I would like Anyone who reads about heat records and collapsing shelphises in Antarctica or anyone who has witnessed our mild winters, forest fires and droughts soon realizes a harsh fact: Climate change is not something that will happen to us; it is something that already affects our world and our country. The issue is not about stopping climate change, but about whether we should allow their effects to be manageable or disastrous. We all, wherever we live in the world, have a responsibility to try to limit greenhouse gas emissions and mitigate the effects on those most affected by climate change. But I would argue that we here in Sweden have a particular responsibility, not because we are the world's worst emitter, even if we are high, but because we have enormous potential to make a difference to the climate struggle here in Sweden and also worldwide. We can and will be a pioneer country. We have already shown that it is possible to combine increased growth with lower emissions. Now we need to show how to combine increased prosperity with zero net emissions. We have the knowledge, we have the resources and I am sure that the Swedish people also have the will to meet that challenge. We can and will be a champion of the climate in the world. We may not be the largest or most powerful country in the world, but we have shown that it is possible to bring about change by connecting alliances of those who want to do more to move those who are unwilling. We can and should be a support for those who want to change their societies but are in a worse position and for those whose societies are irrevocably changing and whose income or livelihoods are being lost due to climate change. Sweden is endowed with a business sector that in many areas is a world leader in sustainability. We have a great knowledge of sustainable urban development and a tremendous capacity in Swedish development cooperation. This, Madam President, we need to take advantage of to help other countries and communities reduce their fossil dependence, reduce their environmental and climate impact and build sustainable growth that lifts people out of poverty. We are all affected by climate change, but it is those who are already the most vulnerable who are most affected. Sweden and the Swedish state need to hook arms with industry, civil society and academia to reduce global emissions, but also to generate resources for climate adaptation and support for the most affected. This is what a humanitarian superpower is doing in the midst of a climate crisis. Madam President, I would like I would not only appeal to the feeling of solidarity of my colleagues and the Swedish people, although I am sure it is great, but I would also like to appeal to self-interest. We all, from the world's most powerful countries down to ordinary people here in Sweden, have a responsibility to change unsustainable behaviours and systems. But climate change is not just about sacrifice, it is something that we can and should benefit from. The climate transition is about new business opportunities for Swedish companies, more jobs and more sustainable production here in Sweden. It is about Swedish raw materials from agriculture and forestry that replace the fossil fuels and makes use of them in several stages. It is a question of the conversion giving double profits also in other areas, which, when a decrease in fossil dependence also means that we reduce our energy dependence on Putin's Russia and other oil dictatorships. It is about building a happier, richer, healthier and safer society in many ways when we build the sustainable society. This, Madam President, is the Centre Party's objective of climate policy. Madam President, I would like I do not have time to go through all our proposals in the report, but thank God we soon have an election movement in which I hope to develop them. However, I would like to pick up some of them in particular. We see that the EU's and Sweden's climate targets need to be tightened up. This applies above all to the EU's climate targets, but we in Sweden also need to consider, above all, how to achieve the climate targets and then whether they can be tightened up and made more appropriate to bring us closer to net zero climate emissions as soon as possible. In addition to this, we see that the ETS, i.e. the EU emissions trading system, needs to be tightened up and made more effective. This was also the case with my fellow Member from the Moderates, and I think we have a rather broad consensus, although I believe and hope that we want to go even further. We have come a long way, but there is more to do with this, which I think is one of the most powerful tools we have to steer the market in a more sustainable direction. It phases out what is ineffective and damages the climate in favour of what is effective and more sustainable. We see that capture and storage of carbon dioxide needs to be given a greater focus, and quickly. Among other things, we want to speed up the Commission's legislative process on CCS and bio-CCS. V i wants to allocate more funds to promote both technology and research on carbon storage, and we want to give SGU a mandate to review the potential for carbon storage in Sweden. Right now we have a situation where we rely a little too much on Norway. We think it is clear that they will be able to store everything, but just as has already been said in this House, their capacity will also be taken into account. It is both about us being responsible for our own emissions and about ensuring that we ourselves can reduce emissions, even when it comes to emissions that we cannot avoid. This is the whole point of carbon storage, when it works properly. Then it will not be an excuse to continue with the unsustainable that we can phase out without a complement that will allow us to de facto remove emissions from what is very difficult to avoid. Furthermore, we want to reduce the emissions and fossil dependence of the transport and agricultural sectors, including by developing the reduction obligation at the next control station, introducing a new biofuel bonus and taking forward the proposals from the study A fossil-independent agriculture. I myself know what concerns there are in the green industries about the increase in fuel costs, not least for diesel. We are stuck in a position where one of our most effective systems to support agriculture is to use the mechanisms we have for re-imbursing the costs of diesel. Sooner or later, we will have to break this, not by imposing more economic burdens on agriculture, but by separating the cost issue and the fossil question. This is precisely what is being proposed by the study on fossil-independent agriculture. I think that is something that also needs to be implemented in broad terms. Last but not least, I would like to mention our proposals to strengthen the efforts of municipalities to adapt to climate change. It is unpleasant to think that climate change is not only something that happens far away, but that it is also about Swedish municipalities, not least my own along the Baltic Sea coast, risk getting underwater. As I said at the outset, climate change affects all of us. We will do everything we can to stop them, but we must also prepare ourselves for the consequences of what we cannot avoid. Finally, I would like to support our reservation number 6 in paragraph 2.
i-PFzHn6jsTquMWAc2sVE9rH	Mr President, I would like to We are in a climate crisis. We know from the research that we are now in on the IPCC's worst emission scenario. If emissions continue as they do now, it is not just a temperature increase of 2 degrees that we get, but rather an increase of 3 degrees. With such a great rise in temperature, large parts of the earth's surface will become uninhabitable. We will have increased conflicts over natural resources. We will have hundreds of millions of new refugees. In short, we will have a future that neither of us wants. I think we are quite agreed that we want to avoid that. We also know quite well what needs to be done to prevent a climate change that is uncontrollable and directly dangerous. There are a number of concrete proposals for action that have been presented by research and most recently by the Climate Policy Council, which produced its fourth review report on government policy. Otherwise, perhaps the best example is how we have acted over the past one and a half years during the pandemic. We saw that emissions decreased globally by about 8 per cent and in Sweden by about 10 per cent. We have never seen such sharp reductions in emissions in modern times. But we all know that these are probably temporary spills, because large parts of society were shut down and so on. But what we can learn from the pandemic is that, as a society, we can join forces when faced with an external threat. We can make the important decisions in record time. We make laws here in 24 hours, and we can mobilise the resources needed to contain such a threat as covid-19 was for us. If we could do that during the pandemic, we must of course do so now that we are dealing with the climate crisis. What we saw during the pandemic, for example, was how people around the world invested in more vibrant cities – cars were removed from the inner cities, and parking spaces and streets were converted into outdoor cafés and temporary parks that have now become permanent parks. It began to redesign the whole of Paris into a so-called 15-minute town, where all relevant public service should be within a radius of 15 minutes walk or cycling. This is a fantastic development that we can learn a lot from in order to build more sustainable and inclusive cities. In the same way we have seen that flying has decreased, and all of a sudden it is discovered within companies and organisations that you may not have to fly down to Stockholm to have a meeting and then fly back the same day. Instead, these meetings are held digitally. We can save ourselves a lot of travel, save money and thus reduce emissions. But not least during the pandemic, we saw that there was money when we needed it. During the pandemic, the Swedish state has mobilised almost SEK 1 billion a day. More than SEK 400 billion has been mobilised to save businesses, authorities and organisations from the ravages of the pandemic in terms of unemployment and other things. We need to do the same now that we are going to invest in climate change. We in the Left Party have therefore listened carefully to the Climate Policy Council's proposal for a more modified and modern fiscal framework, whereby we can abolish the so-called surplus target, which means saving a lot of money in the barns, and instead use this money for large-scale climate investments in public transport, in rail, in sustainable freight transport, in better walking and cycling routes in our cities and so on. We also need to renovate our homes and premises. Hundreds of thousands of people today live in apartments that need renovation. When these homes are renovated, we take the opportunity to isolate them better, replace windows and other things. This will allow us to reduce energy consumption and emissions. In other words, there is a lot of important investment that needs to be made. For that we need both public and private capital. But if the public is not mobilizing, then the private will not get caught up either. We have also seen, as I said before, that we can act quickly when faced with an external threat. That is why we should also act with the same level of preparedness when it comes, for example, to legislating against new emissions. We in the Left want what we call a lex Preem. This simply means that new industrial activities to be established in Sweden may only be established if they remain within the climate targets we have set ourselves. We want to ban the sale of new fossil-powered cars to simply phase out fossil cars from the transport sector. We need to facilitate investment in 100% renewable energy. I am thinking in particular of solar and wind energy. We need to give new ownership directives to Vattenfall. Vattenfall is currently making huge investments in renewable energy, but they are being made in the UK, the Netherlands and Denmark. They do not invest in renewable energy in Sweden. We can change that with new owner directives to Vattenfall, which is a company that we own 100% jointly. We also need to protect more forests because we know that growing forests with a high biodiversity are the best carbon sink we can have. We heard earlier here Magnus Ek from the Center Party talking about carbon storage. But an even more efficient storage of coal is to allow the forest to capture the carbon atoms. Then we need to protect more forest to bind the carbon dioxide. We need to expand the charging infrastructure. If today you have a rechargeable car, it should not be that it is not possible to charge the car when you come to a place. There may be a charging post there, but you may not have the charging tray or app needed or may not be connected to the system needed to use this charging infrastructure. This must be much simpler. And here we need both standardisation and more money. Of course, we should also raise our targets, both in Sweden and in the EU, so that we reach zero emissions earlier. We in the Left Party want zero emissions by 2035. We also want sharper climate targets at European level. We know that if we sharpen our goals, the rest of society will also follow suit. All policy areas must then act in order to achieve these objectives. Mr President, I would like to In this context, I would like to take this opportunity to call for approval of the Left Party's reservation 7 which deals with precisely sharper climate targets at European level. We should also invest more in plant-based food. We all know that meat consumption contributes to gigantic greenhouse gas emissions. We could quite easily in the public sector, for example, ensure that more vegetarian food is served. We can use public procurement to procure more plant-based food. Mr President, I would like to I would like to touch upon the terrible and totally unacceptable war of aggression waged by Russia against Ukraine. We've all condemned that. But it is also possible to see a very clear climate dimension in this war. We know that it is the fossil energy that fattens Putin war against Ukraine. Without the sale of fossil gas and oil, Putin would not be able to finance his war machine. Here we also need to act in Sweden. We know that 8% of Swedish oil comes from Russia and 29% of liquefied natural gas. 50% of the gas in gaseous form coming from pipelines from Denmark is Russian fossil gas, and about 50% of the aviation fuel refueled originates from Russia. Here, we will not contribute to financing Putin's war. We must put an immediate stop to the import of Russian fossil energy. Here the government needs to act much more clearly than it has done in the past. Mr President, I would like to Finally, climate change can sometimes be seen as a great sacrifice. But let us remember that there is so much positive about changing our society to reduce emissions. We know, as I said earlier, that if we reduce the use of fossil energy, we make ourselves independent not only of Putin but also of other dictatorships around the world that export oil and fossil gas. We know that we can also create hundreds of new jobs in the green energy transition, in plant-based diets and other things. We also know that we will feel so much better if we can quickly eliminate fossil emissions. We will simply get better air to breathe. Fewer people will die from air pollution. Let us therefore help to quickly switch Sweden towards zero emissions. We all have a lot to gain from that. We all really know what needs to be done. And we in the Left Party have a number of concrete proposals in this report.
i-2VCbfNtSQ1W7WGDQWRrZRD	Mr President, I would like to I am, of course, fully aware that Jens Holm is no more happy than anyone else with the terrible pandemic we have just undergone. But that's a little strange, because it sounds like Jens Holm is still enjoying a little, positive side effect of all these horrors, namely that emissions in Sweden and large parts of the world actually went down a little. This was not because of anything positive, but because economic activity stopped. It was about lockdown effects to a greater or lesser extent, i.e. that we could not be out moving, consuming and acting in society – which we want people to be able to do. I think it would be very dangerous to try to take those lessons to us when we are trying to build a society that is sustainable for real. Society should not only be climate sustainable but also socially and economically sustainable, and is it something that the pandemic was absolutely not and that the lockdown effects in the long run were not social and economically sustainable. It was a state of emergency, and I do not want to live in a permanent state of emergency. I think this is exactly the wrong way to reduce climate emissions. This is not about us saying, as in Paris, that people can only move 15 minutes from their home and that we have to adapt the city to it. We want more functional cities where people can live as normal as possible and continue to develop and thrive, but we want to do so in a sustainable way. Does Jens Holm not agree that it is not about limiting people's usual social and economic activities, but about trying to ensure that it is sustainable, that is, that it must be the basis for sustainable society? I turn to the apostrophation that Jens Holm made of me on forestry policy, Mr President. It is a truth with very great modification that it is forests that have to remain that take up the most. What we know is that it is growing forests that take up carbon dioxide and that after a while there will be a equilibrium. And what Jens Holm primarily thinks away is the substitution effect: The forest we pick out should go out into society and do good. It will replace Russian gas, it will replace Saudi oil and it will be the sustainable alternative – while building Swedish growth.
i-LJvB9mzzgVJRbF4ofr9yDh	Mr President, I would like to I don't know if it's conscious or unconscious, but Magnus Ek misinterprets me. What I said about the reduction in emissions was that it was about temporary reductions that we saw because of shutdowns and other things. Then one can conclude that emissions actually decreased more in Sweden than globally, even though we in Sweden did not have the regular lockdowns that they had in other countries. However, I believe that there are lessons to be learned from the pandemic, because there is in all crisis management. One of the greatest lessons was that we finally realized that we could have digital meetings instead of flying domestic. We have also learned that the decades of economic austerity policy do not work in a sharp position when dealing with a crisis. Instead, you need a lot of money, and you need to be able to invest. We have had decades of poor railway maintenance, and we have public premises that stand and fall. In short, we have a public sector that has been strangled by a neoliberal economic austerity policy. The Center Party usually embraces it. There are also a lot of other lessons to be learned from the pandemic, and I find it a little strange to put your head in the sand when we have it right in front of us. When it comes to Paris as a 15-minute city, no person's freedom of movement is restricted, but they try to design a sustainable city. I think we have a lot to learn there. When it comes to the forest, I am a little surprised when Magnus Ek says that Swedish forests should be used to drive cars, trucks and airplanes on. Does Magnus Ek really mean that we should cut down trees in Sweden to make fuel out of them? Is it a sustainable management of our living forests?
i-79XJHTN33KvH4TGKo41suZ	Mr President, I would like to If we start with the last: Yes, the person who knows how it works knows that of every tree we pick out is a part that becomes wood, a part that becomes pulp that can be used for clothes or paper and a part that becomes residual streams – that is absolutely to be used to make sustainable chemicals and fuels. I certainly do that, Jens Holm, every day of the week! I also think that the state should be involved in promoting it in every way we can. It does not cover all fuel needs, and it does not mean – as is sometimes claimed in this hall – that fuel is made out of prime wood. Because no one would go after economic stupidity. This is quite easy for every person who has ever visited a sawmill or mass mill to understand; the first thing you realize is that you have different streams from that resource. Mr President, I would like to I really think I'm tripping close to misinterpreting or misinterpreting Jens Holm, and I want to try to avoid it. But I think there is something at the bottom here that is very telling about the policy of the Left Party, namely the tendency to want to restrict economic activity in society rather than trying to strive for it to be sustainable. This also applies to what is said about legislating for an absolute CO2 budget. It will be very easy to slip into it. This is also about bringing economic activity home to Sweden because we make it more sustainable here than anywhere else. This is also what the Environmental Objectives Committee has been looking at over the past year. What I want us to do is to think not about how we limit economic activity but how we reduce emissions from it. Every time we limit this and say that we should not do things, we stop, and then we risk inhibiting growth. Here is the difference between Jens Holm's view and my view of the climate change – which is perhaps neoliberal, perhaps classically liberal or perhaps common sense. You can call it what you want. This also says something interesting about how Jens Holm wants to mobilise funds, because I realise that we will need to borrow also state funds for example for railways. But it is not mobilizing funds, it is borrowing funds. That's two completely different things.
i-8xwhX9ZsK4M7JzgfLYnF35	Mr President, I would like to Magnus Ek mentioned common sense, and there are two things I miss about the Center Party today: peasants and reason. There is too much neoliberal policy from Stureplan and other areas. Let's start with the woods. On paper it works just as Magnus Ek said, but in practice we know that it is the law of the market. If you get more money to deliver trees to those who produce biofuels, the trees go there, and if you get more money from those who will build in wood– well, then the wood goes there. So there is absolutely no simple law in what Magnus Ek says. At least we know something, namely that a caliph leads to very large emissions. In Sweden, forestry looks like cutting down all the trees, making a final cut-off and creating a bare house. It then stands there and leaks nitrous oxide and methane gas; there are enormous emissions for very many years. I recommend Magnus Ek a reading of the Konjunkturinstitutet's latest annual report, which is about the importance of allowing the forest to grow and continue to bind carbon dioxide. As far as economic policy is concerned, it is good that we agree that there is a need for substantial public investment, because that is something I have often missed from the Center Party. I think there is a naive view that the market is supposed to solve everything, and that is not how it works in practice. Instead, we now saw during the pandemic that we have to rule a lot– yes, that's it. The climate transition is also about limitations. We must live within the limits that nature has set for us, but right now we are living beyond those limits. We live as if there were four globes. It is not sustainable, and we must do something about that.
i-HTqGbKef7nJNqT6wSV78vt	Mr President, I would like to It is a challenge to come after Jens Holm to this pulpit. One reason is that the blood pressure is quite high because politics and ideology are perverse, and the other is that he is so horribly long that one has to adjust the speaker's seat. But politics can also be adjusted somewhat! I also noted that Jens Holm tried to lower the speaker's seat after him, and I thank him for that. Actually, I could use my entire post to talk about forest after this line shift. At least I've been meaning to start by talking about forest, among other things. Together with our clean energy mix, the forest is one of our great competitive advantages in the transition. These are two advantages that we really need to take advantage of and develop even more. Unfortunately, I note that there are forces that clearly want to dismantle both sustainable Swedish forestry and our pure Swedish energy mix in favour of ideological patch throws that do not lead us forward in the right direction. When you read the IPCC reports, you see that they are very clear that we need all the clean electricity that we can get, which also includes nuclear power. Regardless of what we think about nuclear power, the IPCC reports are very clear. Many people are happy to refer to IPCC reports in both speeches and debates, but often leave out this fact. It says there, but you don't want it too. The propulsion of electrification is crucial if we are to meet climate targets; we should all agree on that. It is in any case the previously cheap and stable electricity generation that enables SSAB, for example, to create fossil-free steel. Only a conversion of SSAB would cut Sweden's greenhouse gas emissions by 10 percent. What about forestry? There we are struggling with beaks and claws to ensure that over-implemented EU directives do not put a stop to it. Similarly, we must fight against the European Union's failure to regulate Swedish forestry in detail in such a way that it becomes impossible to operate. Not only that – we also have many domestic forces that put their souls into stopping sustainable Swedish forestry. They do so on the pretext of saving both the climate and the environment. The problem is that they are instead doing what they can to destroy for the large carbon sink and carbon-storage resource bank that the forest is and that we so badly need. In addition, they seem to have completely forgotten the substitution effect given when we use forest products to replace CO2 intensive materials such as steel and concrete. Swedish forestry must be given long-term rules of play and legal certainty worthy of the name. Mr President, I would like to The state needs to work with the business community to achieve a transition. This applies, in particular, to the conditions for licensing processes. We now see how quite a few large companies spend tens of millions and many years on processes that are conditional on being converted to green steel or carbon neutral cement in order to preserve our electricity generation. Then it turns out that it still falls on some small detail in this context. Our environmental code therefore needs to be reviewed. Regulations and regulatory letters need to be amended as soon as possible. The environmental code needs to be redesigned so that it can be balanced against the overall climate threat and vital societal interests. The conditions of climate change and the needs of society must be able to be countered to a local environmental impact. Part of this is also that environmental legislation should be based on best available techniques rather than best technology. We Christian Democrats want to move the environmental permit test from the county boards to specialised authorities with expert knowledge. There must be clear timeframes within the review process for both authorities and courts. We also believe that the court in question should be responsible for investigating and requesting any additional information needed for an application so that we do not have any surprises, for example that there are too few people at a consultation meeting and the process thus falls. Another thing, Mr President, that we need to take on board is the Aarhus Convention. It must be implemented again and at a level that is in parity with how it was actually intended from the beginning and thus limit who can appeal to people who are actually directly affected property owners. In this context, I cannot allow it to go unobserved by the fact that a week ago the Parliament voted down a proposal to establish a new civil servant's responsibility. As far as the work of our authorities on these issues is concerned, it would certainly have been welcome to support this. Mr President, I would like to I talked earlier about the forest as a carbon sink, but we can, as everyone here knows, store CO2 in more ways. CO2 capture and storage is an important part of reducing emissions and meeting climate targets. The IPCC calculations are based on CCS becoming a viable solution. The European Commission also relies in its forecasts on CCS and bio-CCS for the EU to become climate neutral by 2050. Therefore, in the context of the review of the EU ETS, the government should work towards adapting the ETS to the use of CCS and bio-CCS in such a way as to create additional incentives for companies to invest in the technology. CCS and bio-CCS are, of course, not only needed in the EU but also here in Sweden in order for Sweden to become climate neutral by 2045 and then be able to achieve negative emissions. The best possible storage of carbon dioxide in the near future is abroad and to begin with in Norway, as we have heard here before. It has great potential to store carbon dioxide in old oil wells below the bottom of the North Sea. Sweden must be active and establish partnerships with Norway and other relevant countries in relation to CCS and bio-CCS, including in relation to storage sites, so that technology can become a reality. In a sub-reporting of a mandate to submit proposals for the design of an operating aid system, the Energy Agency has proposed that we use reverse auctions as support for bio-CCS. The Christian Democrats support the reverse auction system, or a fixed storage money, for carbon capture introduced in connection with the processing of the 2022 budget bill. However, until 2026, when the initiative starts, there is reason to seriously consider a scope that actually corresponds to what the Swedish Energy Agency proposed in terms of the financial effort. In addition to individual project support, there are currently few incentives to invest in carbon capture in Sweden. Research and development in such technologies is also sparing. Today, Swedish bio power plants emit about 30 megatonnes of carbon dioxide annually. There is thus a great potential for extracting carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. Growing trees and other crops bind carbon. When these are incinerated in bioelectric plants, carbon dioxide is formed, which is then captured and stored. The net effect is to remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. The fact that Sweden has such a large share of energy from biofuels suggests that Sweden should prioritise carbon capture and storage technologies. This will allow us to use our renewable fuel and at the same time contribute to net removals from the atmosphere. Sweden therefore needs a national plan for how carbon capture should take place. Mr President, I would like to Earlier in my speech, I have spoken warmly for Swedish forests and forestry. Together with the development of its raw materials from forests, soil, minerals and energy, Swedish industry has a fantastic climate benefit and an overlooked potential to realise a positive international climate footprint. The evaluation of Sweden's compliance with climate targets therefore needs to include the export of our production. It is crucial that Swedish climate policy contributes to reducing emissions globally. Swedish industry plays an important role in the export of products with relatively low carbon dioxide emissions that displace goods produced with higher emissions in other countries. According to a new study conducted by the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, Swedish companies contributed by their exports to reduce emissions by 26 million tonnes of carbon dioxide in 2018 by crowding out dirtier production in other countries. This represents about half of Sweden's emissions over a year. In order to be able to steer towards gradually increasing climate benefits, it should be a goal for Swedish climate work to increase the climate benefits of exports. But if this is to happen, we must provide the right conditions, opportunities and resources, because it is at system level that the shift will take place. I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 13.
i-GbFzjrE6JrLmibc1q64XhV	Mr President, I would like to There are some things to say after this speech, but I had primarily intended to talk about democracy and public participation in important processes in society. I was a little worried about what Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson told me. I do not know whether you in the Christian Democrats want to abolish the Aarhus Convention altogether or whether you want to do it again, but it sounded like there are, in any case, huge problems with the Aarhus Convention. The Aarhus Convention is basically a UN Convention dealing with public participation in major decision-making processes, not least to protect the environment. It is about the right to information about large industrial projects, for example. It is also about the right to have a legal environmental review if it is considered justified. I thought we were quite in agreement in this Parliament that it is good for the public to participate in such important processes. I also thought that we all thought that more eyes look better than just two eyes, so it is good that a large industrial project can be illustrated from several different directions. I am thinking in particular of the huge investment in bio-CCS, in storing carbon dioxide in the bedrock, which the Christian Democrats want to start. It is a rather untried technique, and I believe that there is a great civic commitment, not to say a great deal of scepticism, in this regard. I'm not saying it has to be wrong. But do the Christian Democrats believe that the Aarhus Convention, public participation in the processes, should not apply to the testing of bio-CCS? What do you really want to do with the Aarhus Convention?
i-M613W7b82ybxtUBKZ2jo4r	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jens Holm, for the question! The Aarhus Convention makes a fairly clear distinction between the public concerned and directly concerned. Our implementation has been done in such a way that unbelievably many more have the opportunity to appeal, precisely because we have not limited it to the directly affected public, as the Aarhus Convention gives us the opportunity to. When it comes to a logging report, for example, we see time and again that an appeal from Öland's southern cape is as safe as amen in the church. And when it comes to, for example, wolf hunting, as we know well at home in Värmland, there is automatically an appeal from Södermalm; it is not directly concerned the general public. There the Aarhus Convention makes a difference, but we do not take that difference seriously. If we are to make this work well, we must implement the Aarhus Convention in the manner intended. Otherwise, the risk is that in many different ways we will put the hookbones to ourselves. This is not just about the proposals that I raised and where we see it clearly. We also have industries that want to change and want to make the transition. If companies are to be playable today, they must be sustainable. But when they seek to make their transition, there are a lot of appeals. It puts sticks in the wheel for a change. That can't be the point. Or does Jens Holm think that is a correct way to proceed?
i-TwtEvKBQPBmzKHxLb75cYs	Mr President, I would like to I don't really think Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson answers my question. The Aarhus Convention is such an important convention; it is about public participation and essentially about democracy. That is why I think it is important that we get a clear message from the Christian Democrats about what they want to change with the Aarhus Convention. Or do they want to remove the Aarhus Convention entirely from Swedish legislation? We can take the fellings of Swedish forests as an example. I think there are about 60 000 logging reports in Sweden. When you make a logging report, you send it to the Swedish Forest Board, and the Swedish Forest Board has six weeks to recall. If they have no objection, it is free to cut down the forest. But now Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson says that when it comes to almost every logging report, criticism comes from Öland's southern cape and that it stops the fellings, it sounds like. I would like to know about how many repercussions are actually stopped with reference to the Aarhus Convention. I cannot imagine that this applies to many of the approximately 60 000 notifications. My specific question was about bio-CCS, which can become a very large, new industrial project in Sweden. I can agree that it may be necessary. We have to deal with all emissions, and with bio-CCS we can get negative emissions. But we have to go very carefully and make sure that the public is with us in these processes. I think it would be extremely dangerous to circumvent democracy and the public's ability to take part in making these important decisions. Should the Aarhus Convention be applied to bio-CCS projects or not?
i-HjJD6R1X8CejSYbTLJQYka	Mr President, I would like to The Aarhus Convention should be used as intended. We do not want to abolish the Aarhus Convention in any way. That's not what I said. However, the Aarhus Convention makes a clear distinction between the public concerned and directly concerned. Just go in and read. So it's no problem. As far as the scepticism against CCS is concerned, I must readily admit that it has not reached me in the way I understand it has reached Jens Holm. What I note is a scepticism that there will be some kind of rest cushion, that is, that we do not have to do anything but drive on CCS instead. But that's not the way it's supposed to be. CCS is to be used until we have a solution, simply because we do not have the solution fully now. But we see that CCS is a part of it. That is why, of course, we should use it now, until we have a solution. CCS is not the solution in itself. It is a means of achieving the net zero target and, of course, it will eventually be used to achieve negative emissions. What other people are sceptical about, as Jens Holm points out here, I don't really know. Unfortunately, Jens Holm does not have any speaking time left, which is why I cannot get an answer to that. Otherwise, of course, the public can be involved in these issues. The public must be committed. There's one thing. But here it is about companies that are going to change, about forests that are going to be felled and so on. It's something someone else owns. It is not, although Jens Holm would like that, something that the state owns, but it is other people who have the ownership. Then it is they who are around that area who will decide, not those who live 100 or 200 miles away. They are not included in the general public directly concerned.
i-GX6vVDATaBRkvHNXbNQDgR	Mr President, I would like to I support all my reservations, but I only support Liberals' Amendment No 37 on the capture and storage of carbon dioxide. Mr President, I would like to Our liberal climate policy is based on five important principles. The first is that the Liberals stand for the polluter to pay. It's important. All operations shall pay for their climate costs. With our instruments we focus on emissions. When other parties, for example, want to reduce the number of flights, we want to develop a fossil-free flight and reward electric flights and fossil-free fuels. The second principle is that climate change is only possible in a growing economy. All conversion costs a lot of money, at least initially. Therefore, economic growth is necessary to meet that cost. We now see that countries with poorer economies are lagging behind in the climate transition. It is closely linked to the third principle that trade, technology development and entrepreneurship are prerequisites for the success of climate work. We liberals are technology optimists. We believe that the climate targets are achievable if we release the innovation power and entrepreneurs. If you could put a man on the moon in 1969, we should be able to find solutions to the climate crisis in 2022, more than 50 years later, given the technology development that has been. The biggest impact in the long term is the export of Swedish products that are produced with little climate impact. It gives growth to us and at the same time reduces emissions globally. The fourth principle is that the Liberals want to develop international cooperation. Climate emissions are boundless. Sweden therefore needs to work at a global level, mainly through the EU. The EU is the world's largest and most important environmental organisation. We need to push for tougher climate requirements in the EU, not least for fewer and more expensive trading rights for emissions within the EU ETS and for more activities to be linked to that system. We are going to use the EU as a lever to drive forward global climate action. The fifth and final principle is that we believe that changes to the entire systems are the most important for climate change, where the individual decision affects. So we don't focus on individual behavior. It is above all systems that need to be changed, which is strongly linked to companies. For example, we can look at the transition from fossil-powered vehicles to rechargeable vehicles. There must be rechargeable vehicles, charging infrastructure and a stable electricity supply at reasonable prices before the individual chooses a rechargeable vehicle. With these five principles as a guide, it is quite easy to take a stand on various issues, so that we reach our climate goals. Mr President, I would like to The most important prerequisite for climate change is a secure supply of electricity. The government has, through its early closure of a number of nuclear power plants, placed Sweden in a situation that directly counteracts climate change. It endangers the security of electricity supply, putting businesses and many thousands of jobs at risk – companies that cannot expand and companies that do not even dare to establish and create new jobs. Today we have hydro, wind and solar power together with nuclear power. We need to double our electricity production to 2040. This means that in 2040, hydropower accounts for only 25% of our electricity production. If one thinks that all power will be renewable in 2040, where will the other 75 per cent of electricity production come from when it is dark and still? There's no storage capacity to make it. It goes without saying that this equation does not make sense without nuclear power. If we are to have a stable electricity supply and clear climate change by making us independent of fossil energy, nuclear power is needed, not least in view of the growing political uncertainty in our neighbourhood. To achieve this requires a new liberal bourgeois government after the elections in the autumn, as the present government counteracts this development. Mr President, I would like to Liberal climate policy focuses on five areas. The first is the elimination of fossil carbon dioxide emissions. To be mentally prepared to remove all emissions instead of talking about reducing emissions gives a different time perspective. All activities must act now. Transport has a climate target that 70% of emissions will be gone by 2030 relative to 2010. Road transport accounts for over 90% of emissions, and here electrification is the answer. The liberals have been behind the bonus-malus system, but now it's time to start fixing the bonus part. The main obstacle to electrification is the charging infrastructure at home and at work, where the Liberals invested most of all in this year's budget. The EU ETS system is important as an instrument for tackling climate change targets, and we want maritime transport to be part of the system, just as aviation already does. We also want waste incineration to be part of the EU ETS system. The industry's processes must also be made fossil-free, which will require large amounts of electricity. The second area is the reduction of methane and nitrous oxide emissions. We therefore want, among other things, to drive biogas production based on, among other things, manure from cattle, which would otherwise cause methane emissions. There is also interesting research on new feeds for cows that reduce their methane emissions. The third area is that the Liberals want to build up capacity for negative CO2 emissions, and here we point out our specific reservation. By capturing the carbon dioxide generated by the combustion of biomass, we can achieve negative emissions. The potential is large in Sweden, as there are a large number of point sources of biogenic carbon dioxide where it would be effective to capture the gas. The Liberals therefore want Sweden to have its goal and take advantage of the opportunity to capture and permanently store 10 million tonnes of carbon dioxide by 2030, which is as much as passenger car traffic today. So there is enormous potential. We also want to see a target of 20 million tonnes by 2035. We think it's possible. Commercial stocks of carbon dioxide are underway in Norway, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. Sweden must establish cooperation with relevant countries on bio-CCS, including storage sites, so that technology can become a reality. We also want to create a market so that businesses that are more difficult to switch can buy shares in carbon capture during the transition. The fourth area concerns the reduction of natural emissions and increased natural uptake of climate gases through smart land use. It is rational to carry out extensive net CO2 uptake in Sweden in order to meet the EU's objectives. However, the goal for Sweden is so ambitious that it will require a comprehensive capture of biogenic carbon dioxide through bio-CCS in order to achieve it. It will require co-financing over the EU budget, and EU ETS funds should be allocated for this. We also want to phase out the peat mining and re-wetting of peatland to reduce emissions. The final area, number five, is about adapting society to the consequences of climate change. We need to develop a comprehensive national action plan for the adaptation required for different climate scenarios. In this respect, the State should, in certain cases, provide aid when the costs are too high for an individual region or municipality. Finally, Mr President, as the government in the area after area has pulled the carpet off the ground for climate change, it is clear that if we are to cope with the climate, we need a new liberal bourgeois government in the 2022 elections.
i-UEuBCG6zRtHAvxZeQLp86n	Mr President, I would like to Let me also start by mentioning the terrible situation in Ukraine right now. It is an illegal and unprovoked war by Putin, and it is terrible in every way possible. There is a common disease here that both helps to fatten Putin war fund and fires at the current climate emergency, and that is the fossil dependence that Sweden, the EU and large parts of the world are in now. It'll make it easier for Putin's warfare. I reacted when the Moderates spoke of this in the speaker's chair. What the Moderates are talking about is correct in terms of precisely fossil dependence. However, it is particularly meagre because, as recently as a week ago, the Moderates voted against a proposal to strangle imports into the EU and Sweden, just an hour before Zelenskyj gave a speech in this House. It did not really end there, but the Moderates have actually pursued a policy that has cemented the fossil dependence that we are currently in. Among other things, efforts have been made to classify fossil gas as a sustainable investment in the EU. It has been strongly opposed to the proposal made by the Red-Green Government to phase out gas and coal from the Swedish heating system. They have worked very actively to make it cheaper to buy fossil fuels and so on. I thought that was a little bloated. I had to say it. You can't just talk about this, you have to act. We take the issue back to Sweden and climate policy. It is very exciting and timely that today there was a report from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. It reviews how the Swedish climate targets are being met. It's really interesting reading. What is new and positive is that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency notes that we are now in line with the 2030 targets and that we are about to meet our set climate targets. We're not really hitting the 2045 target. But it is also within our reach if we tighten up our policies. It can be said that it is very clear that environmental-partisan reforms are behind the fact that we are now in line with the objectives. It is the Environmental Party's reduction obligation that is perhaps the most important tool right now. It is the Green Party bonus malus that we have implemented and so on. It is this type of action that makes the figures now point in the right direction. Then let us remember that the 2030 target is still quite ambitious. We have really got a lot done when we have been fighting for politics for the last seven years. There's a very big story in the report. The big thing about it is that we can achieve the objectives if this policy is to remain firm. What we're seeing now is that it's under threat. What we are seeing is that party by party, every party in this House apart from the Green Party, is now going to start dismantling climate policy. It is a total, a complete, capitulation to climate policy that we are currently witnessing. It is about everything from the fact that there is more or less no one party in here, except the Green Party and to some extent the Center Party, which does not want to remove the reduction obligation. It is about making it cheaper to release by lowering the tax on fossil fuels. It is about the climate impact of agriculture, which is now suddenly to be paused and so on. Everything's on pause right now. Climate policy and the climate must stand back. What you really should do instead is, of course, to increase the pace of climate change. Although we are in line with the 2030 target right now, it has other effects. Among other things, we have a huge need for biofuels. Climate policy must be constantly updated, and the pace must increase. With regard to what is beyond the specific transport target of 2030, there is still a great deal to be done. Not least, we need to get the pace going so that we can reach the target of 2045. If we start at an overall level, it is precisely the objectives that need to be updated. We're not even in line with the 2045 target. But at the same time, we know that 2045 is far too late. The question we all have to ask ourselves is: how can Sweden contribute to the world's success in the Paris Agreement? Then the research is very clear. It's zero in 2035. The Green Party proposes that we update the Swedish climate policy framework and bring the Swedish climate target forward to 2035. That is what is needed if we are to be in line with our responsibilities under the Paris Agreement. To that end, we must begin to deal with the blind spot of climate policy. It is about the emissions from our consumption. Here I am very pleased that the Environmental Objectives Committee has worked intensively to produce a common result. Now it remains to implement it, get it in place and of course take all the steps necessary to achieve such a goal. We also need a carbon dioxide budget for Sweden. This means that it is the total amount of accumulated emissions that plays a role in meeting the climate emergency. It is not that we can have a goal in 15 or 25 years where we continue to release a lot and then dive at the end. Then we won't be able to handle the climate. How we reach the target is almost as important as when we reach it. We must have a carbon budget that regulates total emissions from Sweden now and in the future. One of the most important measures to achieve our goals is to tackle the major emissions from all the fossil processes in this country. Well, maybe I'll talk about industry first and foremost. Agriculture is, of course, also very important. The Green Party is proposing as the only party in this House a total phase-out of all fossil energy in Sweden by 2030. It's not something that's done in a flash. That is an incredibly ambitious goal. However, it is possible to reach. But that will require that we, as a society, act together. We need to have a phasing-out plan in which we ensure that authorities work together with business and ensure that those people who may lose their jobs have the opportunity for further training and can take a new job. It is important that we invest in the new industries so that we really get a transition from the old to the new. Now I didn't have time to talk about all my other suggestions. However, our proposals deal with new climate targets, the CO2 budget and the total phasing out of fossil fuels by 2030. These are the important ones at an overall level. I'll round off by asking for the approval of reservation 27.
i-CzpoS9w9DEacQeuSAHiGMB	Mr President, I would like to It is impossible to speak in this House without first mentioning a few words about the war in Ukraine. We Social Democrats condemn, for the most powerful, Russia's ongoing invasion of Ukraine. Russia's action is an attack on the European security regime. It will be met by a united and robust response, in solidarity with Ukraine. Russia alone is responsible for the horrors in Ukraine, the inhuman suffering in the wake of the war. We stand up for Ukraine's right to live in democracy and peace and demand that the war cease immediately. Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson leads the Social Democratic Government, which is now acting on three clear priorities in response to Russia's armed attack: Mr President, I would like to The climate is the destiny of our time. It can be said again. It is not just because the global temperature is rising and hitting hard on people's chances of living a good life. The dependence of the Western world and the use of fossil energy contribute to climate change. It shows that climate change and our common security are interrelated. On the top ten list for most oil producing countries in the world we find Saudi Arabia, China and Iran. These are countries that are directly linked to geopolitical tensions and a lack of democracy. The oil industry is very capricious, and the ten largest oil producers account for nearly three quarters of the world's oil. We Social Democrats are ready and willing to tackle the climate challenge. There is still time to reverse developments. By modernising Sweden and transforming it into a fossil-free Sweden, we can meet the climate challenge, while providing opportunities for new jobs, protecting our welfare and strengthening our security. Mr President, I would like to The United Nations Panel on Climate Change's report published this summer has stated that we are increasingly close to a warming rate of 1.5 degrees. Ambitious emission reductions are needed if heating is to be limited to less than 2 degrees and if it is to be possible to limit heating to 1,5 degrees under the Paris Agreement. About a year ago, the EU adopted a new climate law. The Socialist parliamentary group in the European Parliament was very much involved in the process. Among other things, the Climate Act set the target of reducing EU emissions by 55% by 2030 compared to 1990. By 2050, emissions shall be zero. The Social Democratic Government is the driving force for sharpening the EU's most important tools for achieving the emissions targets. Under the umbrella of Fit for 55, the EU's large package of measures to reduce emissions by 55% by 2030, includes, among other things, tightening up the EU's emissions trading system, which has been on the agenda earlier today, tightening emission requirements for sectors such as shipping and aviation, and carbon dioxide tariffs. Mr President, I would like to Sweden will become the world's first fossil-free welfare country and will have no net greenhouse gas emissions to the atmosphere by 2045. To achieve this, large public and private investments in climate-smart technologies are needed. This is why the government is investing in strengthening the industrial environment and climate change in order to accelerate the industry's climate transition and to enable climate investments at both local and regional level. Industry and industry account for a large part of our emissions but are at the same time a central part of the solution to reduce our climate impact. The green and digital transformation is necessary for our future competitiveness and for Sweden to achieve its high environmental and climate goals and create the conditions for a green re-launch throughout the country. Today, industry accounts for just over one third of Sweden's emissions. Reducing industrial emissions is crucial to achieving climate targets. At the same time, industry is a key element in reducing emissions by developing new solutions and innovations. In order to promote this particular development, the government has strengthened Industrikliv by 217 million in 2022 to a total of 909 million SEK. This, Mr President, is a classic social democratic employment and growth policy! By the state interacting and supporting transition, innovation and technology development, more jobs are created and welfare is secured, but emissions are also reduced. Mr President, I would like to The reduction obligation is one of the most important instruments we have to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to achieve Sweden's environmental and climate objectives. It is also one of our most important security policy tools to reduce Sweden's dependence on Russian oil, which today finances the illegal invasion of Ukraine. The situation in Ukraine raises Sweden's dependence on Russian oil and gas, which today finances the Russian war machine and President Putin's aggressive strategy. Russia has for many years been the single largest exporting country of crude oil to Sweden. The reduction obligation gives an important signal of the need for climate-smart fuels and an increased degree of self-sufficiency of fuels. But it is wrongly pointed out in the general debate as the root cause of rising fuel prices. That's wrong. The rise in fuel prices is mainly due to Sweden's dependence on Russian gas and oil and to President Putin's use of gas as a geopolitical tool against free Europe. Just as Europe needs to free itself from dependence on Russian gas, so must Sweden reduce our dependence on oil. The screwed-up natural gas prices are now giving high prices in electricity markets that are intertwined with ours. It should also give thought to our remaining fossil dependence, our ability to supply fuel and how we are equipped in the event of crisis and war. With the reduction obligation, the fuel companies will continuously mix more and more biofuels into the fossil fuel. It is one of several tools in the government's climate work. When the Parliament last laid down the reduction obligation, this summer, it was in broad agreement. Sweden has very good conditions to produce biofuels. The reduction obligation gives a clear signal of a stable and increasing demand for climate-smart fuels and the conditions for the industry to invest in higher capacity. We Social Democrats protect stability and long-term rules of the game. No single technology track will be able to replace fossil fuels. A palette of collaborative climate action is needed, such as electrification, efficiency, biofuels, smarter transport systems and reduced transport needs. This reduces emissions and at the same time creates more green jobs in Sweden. The reduction obligation has a positive effect on the Swedish level of self-sufficiency of fuel and leads to increased security of supply in crisis and war. It means a safe and fair transition that the whole country can participate in, but above all it means a reduction in dependence on Russian oil, which finances and drives the invasion of Ukraine. Mr President, I would like to Like some of my colleagues, I am taking over my speaking time, but I promise that I will soon be ready. The Social Democratic-led government has a full focus on the fact that the climate transition will go faster, that more people will get to work, that welfare will be strengthened and that Sweden will be a safe country for everyone. It is up to us to reduce climate emissions and promote the transition to a fossil-free welfare society. All relevant policy areas must be integrated into the climate issue and take into account the different conditions that exist for people and businesses in different parts of our country. It also means a reduction in dependence on fossil energy and subsidies from oil-producing authoritarian regimes that create geopolitical instability in our near world. A Sweden that is fossil-free also complicates the financing of the Russian invasion of Ukraine. The government and the Socialist Group in the European Parliament are driving the EU to get other Member States to speed up their cliamate transition. We Social Democrats believe in an active climate policy for the green jobs of the future, for the transition, for a secure well-being and for greater security. In a fossil-free welfare country, everyone, no matter who we are or where we live, should be able to live, operate, develop and realize our dreams. It is the Social Democratic vision of the green folk house and the fair transition. Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-UcTkaAqDmLBztXpcG92WaQ	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Hanna Westerén, for your speech. We share the target; that is certain. But the truth is, there have been eight years lost to the climate with this government. The Climate Policy Council has criticised the government's shortcomings year after year. Last year we pointed out the problem of electricity supply, the permits and the lack of biofuels. There are three critical system issues. This year, the Climate Policy Council actually criticised the same thing, but also lack of governance and leadership, that the state and authorities are not working in the same direction, and that too much attention is being paid to small issues, but that the system issues are missing. It is stinging criticism from the government's own expert body year after year, and we see the result: emissions are falling too slowly. I would therefore like to ask Hanna Westerén whether you are in any way taking on board the criticisms of the Climate Policy Council. And how did it get this far? How could the government have missed all these systemic issues, which are so important to our success? This applies, in particular, to the issue of energy. Hanna Westerén talked a lot about the deplorable situation that is currently around us in Europe and about the war in Ukraine. The situation has also exposed the challenge of our dependence on Russian gas and oil. We see that many countries are now reassessing their energy policy and regret the closure of nuclear reactors. I am the first to say that we need hydroelectric power, wind power and nuclear power to succeed in the transition. But so far we have not received the same response from the Social Democrats. It maintains that it wants to follow the German example, i.e. the closure of nuclear power, which has ultimately led to an increase in dependence on Russia. What conclusions do the Social Democrats draw from the recurrent criticisms of the Climate Policy Council? And are we prepared to reconsider our position on the energy issue?
i-TCy8tpMGnrihYERbaGgdgB	Mr President, I would like to I thank Jessica Rosencrantz for the questions. There were quite a few questions, and two minutes is short time. Just as a short anecdote: in the run-up to this debate, I had a hope, and perhaps almost a small evening prayer before I went to bed yesterday, that we could talk about more things than nuclear power. Now nuclear power came up anyway. I'll mention it in a minute. Initially: Is the government listening to its expert authorities? The answer to that question is unequivocally yes. Of course, the Government takes on board views and any criticism from the expert authorities. We have been sharpening climate policy steadily and consistently for seven years. As far as nuclear power is concerned, I can only say that it is perfectly possible to build nuclear power today. The interest, however, is quite cool. If someone is going to build nuclear power, perhaps encouraged to do it by, for example, the Moderates, my questions will be: Who is going to pay the bill for that nuclear power? How long are we gonna have to wait? And what are we gonna do in the meantime? Then when it comes to the government's climate policy not working, my answer is that it does work. This is not something that only I say, but also the report that Mr Lorentz mentioned earlier, for example, actually states that. Anna-Karin-Karin Nyström, Head of the Climate Target Unit at the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, another government agency, notes in connection with a report from the Swedish Energy Agency, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Transport Agency that it is very positive that Sweden now looks to pass the Swedish goals we have most immediately ahead of us, thanks to important decisions and steps in both transport and industry. It is at least for me and for the Social Democrats a receipt that politics and business are actually on the right track.
i-YDLwufbCAxaqNUdcQuHQVr	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the answer, Hanna Westerén! You can always pick quotes from different reports to confirm your own reality picture. We have heard several years in a row from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Climate Policy Council that emissions are decreasing too slowly to reach our climate targets. It's a little comfort that you can reach a milestone on the way if you miss the whole thing. I maintain my question on the criticisms of the Climate Policy Council. It does not seem that these issues have been taken seriously. When we decided on the reduction obligation in this House, the Moderates pointed out how important it was to get biofuel production going. We had a green fuel support of 1 billion in our moderate budget. It was nothing that the Social Democrats were willing to invest in. The Energy Agency has now proposed the same support, but it is not something that the government has put forward. The effect has been that, among other things, biofuels have driven up prices for Swedish motorists. We have also long said that we need to do something about the state processes. We were the ones who needed to reach out to the Social Democrats after the transformation of the government last and propose precisely talks on permit processes. On the energy issue, I note that it does not seem that the Green Party's withdrawal from the government made any difference whatsoever to the government's energy policy. I cannot interpret Hanna Westerén in any other way than to continue at today's end date for nuclear power. I can assure Hanna Westerén that the Moderates will continue to talk nuclear energy right into the electoral movement. When we see the energy crisis we have today, when pensioners sleep with double blankets because they cannot afford the electricity bill and when Swedish companies cannot switch because of the lack of clean electricity, the energy issue is perhaps the most important climate issue in this election. But it was a good thing that the voters were given an answer, if I understood Hanna Westerén correctly: no review of nuclear power. In 2040 we should therefore only have weather-dependent and renewable energy sources in the electricity system. I think that would be a mistake. I think we should have all fossil-free energy sources.
i-7oLqS51PhetcUNsTFdyc7b	Mr President, I would like to When you listen to Jessica Rosencrantz you easily get the impression that the government would have said that we are finished. In no way are we. We are in the midst of a burning climate challenge. We are doing a lot today, but of course we have to do a lot more. I also think that I sense in both Jessica Rosencrantz's speech and her questions that there is a common awareness that we should do even more. It comes down to us, as I said in my speech. As far as the reduction obligation is concerned, I should like to mention it in particular. I can only regret the fact that support for the reduction obligation seems to be eroding in this House. I think it is extremely unfortunate that we are leaving one of the most important tools for coping with the climate challenge. With regard to nuclear energy, I would perhaps like to make it clear, if it has somehow escaped anyone, that we Social Democrats believe that nuclear power will be part of the Swedish energy mix for a long time. But if we look at where the willingness to invest is in Sweden today, what types of energy it is actually interested in investing in, we can say that it is not in nuclear power. Above all, there is a great interest in investing in wind. What else are we gonna do? There are a lot of things we are going to do, and as we have to do, to meet the climate challenge and reduce emissions. We'll electrify more. We will build Sweden much stronger by getting rid of our fossil dependence. We will of course also increase the competence of the Swedish population so that people can take the green jobs that are emerging. Otherwise, we're going to lose the lead shirt we're actually wearing today. Charging infrastructure, offshore wind power, climate competence boost – there are many measures. But, of course, we are by no means finished. Rather, we increase the pace day by day.
i-RJJrp4QrXwpfkZtwuzr9Cr	Mr President, I would like to It could have been worth asking for a line just to hear a little more sounding Gothic, but that's not why I did it this time. I should also like to congratulate Hanna Westerén on the fact that it was not to talk about nuclear power either. So something was heard, at least. I think I note a certain adjustment in policy compared to when we stood here a year ago. Now the representative of the Government Party is increasingly talking about a change at system level. These are new solutions. They're innovations. I think I hear a completely different rhetoric from what I have heard from the previous government. Is it the case that the Social Democrats are becoming increasingly detached from their former government partner? At least it sounds like that to me. In my speech, I talked for quite some time about permit processes. We note that permit processes take an incredible amount of time and cost a lot of money. Yet, despite all the time, all the effort and money you spend, some companies' permit applications fall – sometimes on things that, on the whole, look like petitess, if we are to be honest. What does the government intend to do to make things easier for those companies that want to change? One reason why they are looking for these new permits is that they want to be even more sustainable. But then the state puts sticks in the wheels. Legislation gets in the way of companies that want to change. The question to Hanna Westerén is: What are the Social Democrats and the government doing to get state processes that are more modern and that actually work today?
i-AEY24AgFSmSrLwRDjMTLYR	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson, for the opportunity to talk about something other than nuclear power, although it remains important in Sweden! I am the first, or one of many, to subscribe to the fact that dealing with permit processes is an extremely priority. The government has for a long time been working hard on this issue to ensure that there will be shorter and more effective permit processes. We can only recall the recent news about wind power: that there should be greater predictability for all parties precisely as regards the licensing processes for wind power. These are two clear examples of the fact that the issue is a very priority. Further opportunities are then offered with the sea plans, which Minister Strandhäll presented some time ago. There is also the idea that it should be both smooth and predictable for all parties. In this context, I cannot help but mention a state-of-the-art process which, thankfully, has come a little further in recent times, namely the issue of Kallak. I very much hope that in the future we will be able to have further sustainable mining in Sweden. I see this as an important step forward towards a more sustainable common future.
i-WGPE8V6Wm7AeEdi91NjqoL	Mr President, I would like to I can give Hanna Westerén a tip. Hers, what will it be now, before former party leader Göran Persson himself has said that there is one thing he did during his time that he would like to change, and that is precisely the environmental code. It is written in such a way that it is very difficult to relate to, and you get very long court proceedings that are very uncertain. It might be worth outsourcing that task to Göran Persson. I also noted a previous change of line here about the reduction obligation. Yesterday my colleague Magnus Oscarsson arranged Milk's Day here in Parliament. In the first chamber there were about 80 farmers, and about as many were on the link. There was a despair in that room that could really be touched. The question they're asking is, are we going to shut down now or in a month's time? I can't do this anymore. These are huge electricity prices, huge fuel prices and huge prices of inputs. This leads to enormous uncertainty. The reduction obligation is a good way to achieve our goals, but right now, when the situation is as it is, we see that it is not possible to have it that way. We must help our farmers, our Swedish hauliers and our rural residents in order to keep Swedish farmers and Swedish haulage companies in place tomorrow and to enable people to live in rural areas. That is why we want to adjust the reduction obligation. We don't want to slaughter it, which you want to make it sound like.
i-NNuZDpuYkR3epXHZmRHcwM	Mr President, I would like to We have now ended up in a situation where there has been a statement that I assume Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson and anyone who wants to erode support for the reduction obligation applauds, and that is that we actually pause the reduction obligation. But I maintain that I believe that we must stand up for the reduction obligation. I believe that the reduction obligation will continue to be important for Sweden because we change with it and because we can also change our Swedish agriculture and take it into the future with the help of biofuels and continued investments in the food strategy. Nor is it that it would in any way have escaped the government that agriculture is going through an extremely hard and trying time. There are therefore also aid packages that have already been decided. I know that another package of support for agriculture is being discussed in the Committee on Finance at the moment. Thus, agriculture is in no way left behind, but it is a high priority for the government for many reasons, not least to strengthen Sweden on its way into the future. I would like to end by thanking you for the tip that was that we as a decision-making assembly should change the environmental code. I have heard that proposal quite a few times, and I remain sceptical that this is where we are going to put it in. I know that Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson, just as I know that legislation takes a very long time, and the issues we are discussing at the moment often require much faster solutions than going in and reforming such a comprehensive piece of legislation. So I think we should look somewhere else to begin with.
i-EPR3T8EyBFZxBEK6cnhTmw	Mr President, I would like to Hanna Westerén put out a part of the text on the reduction obligation. We appreciate that, because we think it is an important issue to highlight here in Parliament. But I don't really get the sense of everything that was brought forward. Did I correctly understand that Hanna Westerén believes that the high prices of diesel in Sweden are not clearly linked to the reduction obligation? In that case, I wonder: Why do we have a price difference of about SEK 4 on diesel between Sweden and Denmark when Denmark has a higher tax on its diesel? It is quite clear that the Social Democrats have seriously misjudged the effects of the reduction obligation from the outset. The price effect has become much greater than the government thought. We probably have a price effect today of at least $4, and probably a little more. This will increase every time you adjust the reduction obligation. Now the government has promised that it will temporarily freeze the reduction obligation at a very high level, but Hanna Westerén is clear that there will be clear rules for the market and that it is Mohammed al-Amoudi-Amoudi, the multi-billionaire who owns Preem, who will have clear rules of play while the rules for Swedish farmers, Swedes in rural areas and other people who depend on transport, which in fact we are all, also need clear rules of play – and they mean more expensive and expensive fuel. What is at stake here is essentially competitiveness. We as a nation cannot function if it is to be so extremely much more expensive with transport in this country compared to other countries. I do not understand how we can function as a nation if we get more expensive and more expensive sosse prices on diesel every year to come.
i-NKWmCAkhxJdVBLvN9tMWpe	Mr President, I would like to I almost get to start at the same end and actually be a little bit wondering what Martin Kinnunen actually means. I wonder whether it has escaped the honourable Member that there is a war going on in our immediate vicinity and that war actually has implications for fuel prices, food prices and so on. I firmly believe that we can strengthen Sweden, which should be a priority for all parties in the Swedish Parliament, by building away our fossil dependence. The reduction obligation has been paused at this year's levels, but I believe that the reduction obligation step by step brings us closer to fossil independence and makes Sweden stronger. I would also like to remind the honourable Member that we have a renewable directive in which we are committed to having at least 14% from renewable sources. It is something that obliges. Pauses or lowers the reduction levels will increase the burden in the long term. So the question is when you want to take it and how you want to take it. I believe that long-term sustainable rules of the game apply to all of us. I think that's something most of us appreciate getting. I also believe that the reduction obligation actually has a positive impact on security of supply. I think it is important for Sweden given the situation we are in now but also to build common security over time. I think we need to find a more reasonable way of talking about resilience in our society and what we should have for common security of supply, because I do not think it is sustainable to erode support for such an important climate action in this way.
i-9bUdULvr7KuRe3br6Tk7ro	Mr President, I would like to Hanna Westerén takes up the war, and it is grateful for the Social Democrats to be able to blame them. It is called Putin prices when it is actually about sosse prices. The rise in oil prices is correct. It is a trend that we have seen over the past year, and we will see great variations. But it doesn't have to be such an extremely serious problem. The serious problem arises when it becomes very much more expensive in Sweden than in other countries. Oil is rising, and it affects all countries, but when we add these extra costs in the form of sosse prices, our competitiveness is seriously damaged. The beneficiary of the reduction obligation is Moham with al-Amoudi-Amoudi on Preem. It is not the Swedish farmers or all the Swedes who are dependent on finding products to shop in the store. Every product we see in the Ica store or any other grocery store has been transported there in some way using diesel, but when we get much more expensive transportation in this country, it raises the price of virtually everything we need to survive. It is extremely damaging to our competitiveness, but above all it affects the competitiveness of the haulage industry and the farmers, for Sweden is a large and sparsely populated country where transport is incredibly important. Hanna Westerén referred to the Renewables Directive, and it is true that there is a requirement there that by 2030 a certain amount of biofuels have been achieved in the fuel. However, we had already achieved this before the reduction obligation was introduced, and if we reduce the reduction factor significantly, we will achieve it anyway. Today, the European Commission wants us to reduce our involvement. These are the reasons why they are appealing to the countries to do so at this stage.
i-8fPXPp75rfBmkxDSLgays8	Mr President, I would like to My final line is probably going to be pretty short. It feels very interesting to be blamed for mentioning a war that is going on in Sweden's immediate vicinity. It's actually exceptional. The war in Ukraine affects me to know prices of very much in far more economies than the Swedish one. It's a fact. It concerns fuels, food and probably a range of other inputs over time. Unfortunately, we will not really know how the Swedish Democrats intend to increase Swedish security of supply when it comes to biofuels, for example, because they consistently fail to answer the question. It focuses on the price of a pump and does not talk about the more far-reaching consequences for our society. There is also no talk about the tool that the reduction obligation is de facto to reduce Swedish emissions and seriously change Sweden. I find that deeply regrettable.
i-F3QAugq9T93cMTgD7UPZo3	Mr President, I would like to When I sat down to write this speech, I had just landed at Landvetter Airport after a trip to the UN in New York. The trip itself had a focus on the Women's Commission, and I had the opportunity to learn about the UN system in a very robust way. Ukraine, of course, became a natural part of all the meetings we attended, but time and again we also heard about the forgotten conflicts and how there is a constant struggle on human rights in the UN work. With the trip fresh in mind and a Word document in front of me, I decided to sit down and read more carefully the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. It is a very fine and impressive document that has guided the world since the time after World War II. The UN General Assembly adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights on 10 December 1948. There was then a very strong desire to create at international level a common agreement on universal and indivisible rights, so that similar abuses would never happen again. Today, it is described as a struggle between countries that want to and countries that do not want to invest in human rights. Human rights are vulnerable in the work of the UN – it's a quote I brought with me from the trip and something I think we need to become more aware of. The multilateral system is incredibly important, and it is clear that reforms are needed. Today we are debating human rights from a thematic perspective here in the Swedish Parliament. It is a debate that is necessary in this House but on which there is broad consensus here at home, which makes me happy and incredibly proud. Sweden is a fanbearer of human rights in the world, and there are many countries looking up to Sweden in this particular area. Sweden holds human rights high, and the broad consensus gives us weight in international contexts. But crimes against humanity are hard to prove, and punishment is rarely imposed. The Moderates therefore believe that Sweden should work in its international relations to ensure that countries and individuals who expose their population to genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes are held accountable for their actions. The importance that Sweden has in the issues should clearly permeate our international relations. For some time now, we have seen increasing polarisation on fundamental human rights issues, not only among UN Member States but also at home in the EU. Following Russia's invasion of Ukraine and the flagrant violation of international law by the dictator Putin, we have seen a whole new unity. The world and Europe have come together to face the threat and say no with a strong voice. Let us not forget, and let us carry on this unity also on other issues, in other conflicts and around other meeting tables! The Moderates believe that Sweden should actively work to limit and stop human rights violations and make use of the international organisations in which Sweden is a member, but should also work to ensure that the most serious crimes against humanity are actually brought to the fore in the International Criminal Court. We also believe that sanctions against human rights violations, so-called Magnitsky sanctions, should be extended to include corruption. Mr President, I would like to I therefore support the Moderates' reservation 5. Human rights state that all people, regardless of country, culture and context, are born free with equal value and the same rights. The basic principle of human rights is that power must never be arbitrary and that individuals have the right and the opportunity to assert their rights. We are living in an uncertain time when democracy and human rights are in decline. Today, the majority of the world's population live under authoritarian rule, not in democracies. We see how crises are used to tighten and violate rights and how arbitrariness and power threaten important principles. This is something that we have seen not least in Russia for a very long time – particularly clearly at the moment – but also during the coronapndemine. Mr President, I would like to In many parts of the world, free media is under heavy pressure. Incarcerated journalists, closures of newspapers and blocking of websites are commonplace in authoritarian regimes. Sweden has an important task to support the free media in international cooperation and work to ensure that journalists can operate freely without threats of violence or imprisonment. Sweden is a fanbearer for democracy and for human rights, and I think it is easy to get caught up in thinking that everyone thinks like us. However, the fact that we are united in this House does not mean that we are in the majority in the world with our positions. Sweden may be a smaller country in this context, but we have something very big on the agenda. We must constantly be vigilant about where human rights are being called into question or violated, and we must constantly be willing to stand up for democracy, human rights and the principles of the rule of law in all contexts, even where it becomes uncomfortable. Mr President, I would like to There is a struggle for human rights in the world. I mentioned earlier that this debate is necessary on a regular basis, despite the fact that we are united in this House. But perhaps it is rather the case that this debate is necessary recurrent because we agree, because what we do and what we say at home in Sweden makes a difference. It matters. Borders are constantly being tested, and minorities are, in the vast majority of crises, those who take the first and the biggest blow. Women's rights are human rights, and the SRHR is vital. From the Swedish side, we should be overly clear about this. Victory is not won, and we have a long way to go. But let us never back down on the forces that are threatening, and let us jointly win the draft battle for human rights!
i-6hbWDbKb3F9XyKEThKtsQ1	Mr President, I would like to Mr Putin's brutal and unimaginable war of aggression against Ukraine makes it a little more topical to raise human rights issues in foreign policy. We now see how the Russian strategy, after Putin realized that he could not so quickly conquer Ukraine, is characterized by systematically causing maximum damage and putting terror in Ukraine's population. You're just trying to force submission. As we all know, our Ukrainian sisters and brothers are currently suffering as a result of a completely ruthless shooting by, in many cases, your winged Russian conscripts or mercenaries. In the Russian-occupied parts of Ukraine, we also see how Russian criminals expose civilians to rape and other assaults and how some are forced to be deported to Russia. The horror stories of this war never end. It is no wonder that over 3 1⁄2 million Ukrainians have now fled the country. Mr President, I would like to This puts its finger on something quite different that happened in Ukraine quite a long time ago. From 1928 to 1931, the Soviet regime expropriated over 350 000 farms in the then Ukrainian sub-republic of the Soviet Union. During 1932 - 1933, the Soviet regime confiscated all grain and other edibles in Ukraine while blocking the roads from several regions. All of this led to an elaborate mass roll-over for the Ukrainian population, and in order to prevent the rural population from gaining sympathy in that situation, the regime also ran a massive propaganda campaign against what they called thieving big farmers. When one looks at the excess mortality rate in Ukraine in 1933, despite attempts to darken the figures, it has been assumed afterwards that over 3 million people died as a direct consequence of the Soviet regime's famine policy. The forced famine in Ukraine in 1932 – 1933 is called Holodomor, and it is high time we recognized it as the genocide it actually was. Mr President, I would like to To return to the present, there are other important issues concerning Ukraine in today's debate linked to the circumstances in the region. More specifically, I am thinking of Ukraine's northern neighbour, Belarus. Since 1994, Belarus has, as you know, been governed by the harsh and unpopular dictator Aleksandr Lukasjenko. The regime in Belarus is highly committed and active in the ongoing war of aggression against Ukraine and should therefore be considered as the perpetrators they are. Despite the widespread propaganda and disinformation of the regime, however, the people of Belarus dislike their regime. The population is also, unlike the Russian population, generally opposed to the aggression against Ukraine. Mr President, I would like to Despite the knowledge that the people of Belarus wish anything but to be ruled by a dictator and absolutely do not want to be part of the invasion of Ukraine, the dictator's envoy is allowed to act as the representative of Sweden's Belaris. In the case of official invitations from the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, it is Lukasjenko man who is invited instead of the representative of the Belarus People's Embassy, who, unlike the dictator's husband, represents the democratic opposition in Belarus. In addition, Belarus is marked by the fact that there is a relatively organised democratic opposition which has designated its own diplomatic missions, which is what is called popular embassies. Although the democratic opposition should have the support and sympathy of the Swedish Government, these people's embassies lack the opportunity to act as legitimate representatives of their people, and thus cannot act fully in the interests of the people. Under the Vienna Convention, diplomatic relations between States are established by mutual consent, and it is the sending state that appoints its diplomats. However, if one country chooses to de facto regard one government in another country as illegitimate, it opens up in order to view another government as legitimate. We have seen this in a number of places, including in Europe. Minister of Foreign Affairs Ann Linde has stated that Lukasjenko rule is illegitimate. He is an illegitimately elected president, and therefore the matter should be out of order, if one had wished for it on the part of the government. But not. There are several examples in other countries, such as the United Kingdom and Portugal, where opposition democrats have been recognised as legitimate representatives of their people. Such people's embassies have even been able to take over buildings belonging to the country's embassy. Furthermore, it has been possible to assist in the important work of diplomacy by issuing diplomatic ID cards. This is something that Sweden should follow. Mr President, I would like to In the light of the war in Ukraine, it is particularly important that Sweden shows that we are on the good side while supporting the people and supporting democracy. We must put pressure on the villains who make up the Belarus regime while at the same time following the example of Britain and other countries by making it possible to support people's embassies. This is not only true in Belarus, but there are other examples, such as Venezuela, which have similar conditions. To be on the side of the democrats should not be very difficult for a government that claims to be carrying out a democratic offensive in foreign policy. Mr President, I would like to In this debate, of course, we must raise another area which the government at least claims to be a priority, namely the situation of women around the world. A particular focus should be on combating all forms of women's oppression that sadly characterises everyday life in a wide range of countries. In its foreign policy, Sweden must clearly distance itself from, not least, state-sanctioned repression and perhaps, in particular, the repression of Islamic dictatorships, which are characterised by these values. Millions of women around the world are subjected daily to an oppressive and violent culture of honor, which severely restricts their opportunities in everyday life. There are examples where women have had acid thrown into their face and where they are not allowed to go out or travel as usual. These days we have seen examples in Iran where women have demonstrated for something as simple as participating in an arena or stadium and cheering for their national team. But they have not been allowed to do so; instead, they have been met by brutal policemen and tear gas. There is a wide range of other issues that I would like to raise and which are worth considering, not least the situation of Christians around the world. We should also particularly raise vulnerable minorities, but time is limited. For this reason, Mr President, I conclude by calling for the approval of reservation 2, although I naturally support the other reservations expressed by the SD in the report.
i-UWEkXpETzMiLVs3MYzTUKi	Mr President, I would like to The promotion and defence of human rights is a matter of heart and a core task for both the Center Party and the worldwide liberal movement to which we belong. This is something that permeates our policy and also how we look at why we exist at all and why we must continue to build on the liberal movement. Human rights, both civil and political rights and economic, social and cultural rights, together constitute a whole that must be respected in order for people to fully develop their potential. Human rights are universal, indivisible and mutually reinforcing. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, we see that today in the world we are far from realizing that situation. We cannot say that we are close to realising a world in which all people enjoy human rights in full. Madam President, I would like On the contrary, we see a very worrying trend globally. We see that system competition, in which authoritarian leaders, dictatorships and authoritarian systems try to extend their power over people and not only their political power but also their economic power. It constantly flouts human rights at the edge. It also means that right now people are actually under increasing oppression in large parts of the world. The pandemic and its aftermath have in no way made this situation any easier but, on the contrary, have made it worse. In the wake of pandemic and lockdown policies, repressive systems have strengthened their control and stifling repression of people. Women and girls in particular have been kept at home and are excluded from the labour market and from education. Democracy and human rights fighters have seen repression against themselves and their activities hardening in the wake of the pandemic. Unfortunately, Madam President, this means that we are also in a position to see how things are moving backwards. I have raised this also in previous years in similar debates and not least when we have talked about the tools that we have from Sweden to try to influence the world in a sustainable direction, not only ecologically but also socially and economically, and when we have talked about the importance of Swedish aid and development cooperation. Unfortunately, we are fighting at this time in the headwind. But it is also when we fight in the headwind that we realise the importance of liberal democratic forces in the world. And with countries such as Sweden, as the fellow Member from the Moderates pointed out, we actually have a fairly broad and strong consensus on the importance of human rights, on the importance of democracy, freedom and the rule of law, and on the importance of such forces in the world at this very time when so much is being done wrong. This global trend will also require the liberal democratic forces in the world to be better at uniting and becoming better at realizing what opponents we have and how they are working to turn developments in the wrong direction. The war in Ukraine has already been mentioned a number of times in this debate. Although this war of aggression largely stems from the Russian nationalism of the Putin regime and from the unwillingness to accept free neighbours such as Ukraine, it must nevertheless be said that it is also part of the global system competition that we see between authoritarian and repressive systems and between those countries and populations who want to live in freedom, who also want to respect the rights of their neighbours and who want the world increasingly to be linked in peaceful cooperation. I think we are doing a disservice if we think that this starts or ends with the war in Ukraine. Equally worrying is the Chinese influence, both in developing countries and in the multilateral system. It is not news to us in this committee what a dragon-sowing Chinese influence is, for example, in sub-Saharan Africa, where we see how to go in and actually turn political systems in the wrong direction and how Chinese influence is often linked to increasing corruption, to a reduction in transparency and to a eroded legal system – all that together with democracy and popular influence will build secure, peaceful and democratic states. This system competition is something that Sweden must relate to, not only in foreign policy but also when we operate within the multilateral system and try to influence it. That is precisely why the Center Party has proposed that it should be established by the Riksdag that the government's focus should be to strengthen the focus on human rights in the UN and to emphasise democracy as an integral part of human rights. But we must also be able to use the softpower we have – the soft power and the soft power – in the multilateral system to ensure that the Swedish values of democracy and freedom also permeate this system – that we are actively working with the broadcasters and that we are thinking about which parts of the multilateral system are currently moving in the right direction and who are not able to do so. Madam President, I would like This is not an easy job, but it is part of a strategic and sustainable approach to the systemic conflict with which we live, between authoritarian and democratic systems. The committee also notes that human rights, democracy and the rule of law are also fundamental prerequisites for the implementation of Agenda 2030. ..................................................... That's right. A sustainable society cannot be built without democracy and the rule of law. They assume each other. We also see that in those states where democracy is lacking, where sustainability is also lacking, where gender equality is lacking and where human rights are lacking. When there is no functioning rule of law to guarantee this, developments are all too often backward. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, democracy is clearly absent from Agenda 2030. It has been swept away and watered out precisely because powerful states do not want it there. We want to talk about good governance rather than popular influence. Furthermore, we sometimes make the mistake that just because the word democracy or the word rule of law is included, we believe that we mean what we mean. Here we know that authoritarian states and authoritarian leaders are extremely adept at reinterpreting popular influence and reinterpreting the rule of law principles and expressions of good administration. This is also part of the system competition that we have to manage. And that is something that the Parliament actually referred to in the report we had on China's influence and Sweden's relationship with China a few years ago. Don't forget it, my friends! I believe that we are unfortunately facing a very long period of hard struggle and a need for a stubborn Swedish work. But we should not forget that this is exactly where Sweden is most needed. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by calling for our reservation 3 to be approved under paragraph 1.
i-46K2FkGkFn46baoJfwszFy	Madam President, I would like We are now debating human rights, and my thoughts, of course, go first to Ukraine, where human rights are violated every day because of Russia's unjust wars that are affecting the civilian population extremely hard. For the Left Party, democracy and human rights are not negotiable. We defend the UN Declaration of Human Rights, where freedom of assembly, organisation, strike, freedom of expression, religion and belief, and public, free and secret elections are essential elements. Equal emphasis is placed on social progress and improved living conditions, such as the right to work, education, housing, health care, long-term care and culture. Unfortunately, we can see that the democratic development of the world, which in the 20th century was steadily moving in the right direction, has now halted and is moving in the wrong direction. This is confirmed, among other things, by the independent research institute Varieties of Democracy Institute at the University of Gothenburg. Human rights are being violated in a number of areas and in a number of countries. However, I intend to focus on the situation of women and LGBT people on the basis of our motions on North and Central America, Iran and Central Asia and the Horn of Africa. This does not mean that we do not see serious human rights violations being committed in other parts of the world, such as China, Russia and several countries. However, we have exercised and debated these crimes in the past. I am thinking here of the motions dealt with in this report. Violations of women's rights are the most common and widespread violation of human rights. Women's subordination and men's subordination, as well as the patriarchal structures that allow it, are expressed in different ways in different countries through social, economic and political discrimination. According to the UN, every third woman in the world is estimated to be subjected to serious violence at some point in her life. Madam President, I would like It should be self-evident that all countries ratify the UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women. It is perhaps not surprising that countries such as Iran and Somalia have not signed up, but it is all the more surprising that the United States has not ratified this important convention. In its contacts with the United States, Sweden should work to ensure that the United States signs the Convention on Women's Rights. Women's right to their own bodies is a central issue for the Left Party, which is why we stand up for the right to abortion. Unfortunately, we see this right being violated in a number of countries also in our vicinity. In the United States, several states have passed laws that make it difficult to access reasonable and legal abortion at all. Women seeking abortion are often subjected to abuse and harassment. Although there are positive signs in South America in terms of abortion – for example in Mexico, where abortion was previously banned but has now been decriminalised – abortion is completely prohibited or abortion rights restricted in many Central American countries. In El Salvador abortion is not even allowed at the risk of the mother's life, and a woman can be sentenced to up to 50 years in prison for abortion. In Nicaragua, the total abortion ban contributes to high maternal mortality. The women's movement in Latin America plays an important role in supporting women and increasing gender equality, and Sweden should therefore increase support for Latin American women's movements. Madam President, I would like Women are particularly vulnerable in Iran and Central Asia. Men's violence against women is widespread in the region, and criminal proceedings are almost non-existent. Women in Iran are completely subordinate to the man. In the country, it is also criminal to have sex outside of marriage, and women who have been raped are therefore at risk of being severely punished. Nor is there a ban on domestic violence by men against women. The Left Party believes that it is important to support local women's rights organisations in Iran. In all its contacts with Iran, the EU and the UN, Sweden must also pay attention to the situation of women in the country. Constitutions, constitutions and laws in all five countries of Central Asia prohibit discrimination on the grounds of sex, but their implementation and implementation are very poor. This is because the countries have relatively weak states in combination with traditional and patriarchal societies with standards that discriminate against women. It hampers women's participation in politics, in the labour market and in the public sector. Sweden, as a member of the OSSE, must therefore work to strengthen women's rights and security in Central Asia. Some of the Central Asian countries have made progress in legislation on LGBT people's rights. In 1998, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan decriminalised the same sex relations between men, which was a step in the right direction. Female homosexuality, however, is not mentioned. At the same time, a little, if any, has been done in practice. LGBTQ people are not accepted socially and therefore live under constant threat of violence and harassment. Sweden must therefore work both as an individual country and as a member of the EU, the OSSE and the UN to step up support for the work of LGBT organisations in Central Asia. In Iran, same-sex relationships are punished with both prison, whipping and death. It is today permitted to undergo sex-correcting operations in Iran, but despite this Amnesty International reports that transgender people are harassed by police, imprisoned and subjected to torture. For example, it should be absolutely obvious that LGBTQ and transgender people from Iran who are seeking asylum in Sweden also receive it. Madam President, I would like Discrimination and marginalisation on the grounds of gender are still very common in the countries of the Horn of Africa, as are men's violence against women and girls. Although Ethiopia, for example, has ratified the UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, it does not work in practice. Female genital mutilation is still common in the countries of the Horn of Africa. Although the awareness of female genital mutilation has increased among both the population and the authorities, progress is far too slow, and this problem needs to be addressed. Health systems are generally weak, and the coronapandemy has made the situation even worse. Women and children are the most severely affected. If Africa is to face up to its challenges, it cannot afford to exclude the women of the continent from politics and the economy. Sexual violence, forced marriage, female genital mutilation, unequal distribution of resources between men and women, men's violence against women and the high proportion of girls excluded from education create crucial barriers to all forms of social development in Africa. Any development and poverty reduction strategy that wants to be successful must therefore include a clear gender perspective. Sweden, as an individual country and within the EU and the UN, will therefore strengthen political as well as financial support for the women's movement in the Horn of Africa. Violence and harassment against LGBTQ people are also common. On the Horn of Africa homosexuality is prohibited in all countries, and Somalia is one of six countries in the world where LGBT people can be sentenced to death. In the context of its development cooperation, Sweden should strengthen the political as well as financial support for the LGBT movement in the Horn of Africa. Madam President, I would like Sweden has a high profile on these issues, but we need to step up work on the rights of girls, women and LGBT people so that they are fully included in the human rights field. We support all our reservations, but I only support reservation number 14.
i-VcrJNBJs1JzRst1X2rYLaX	Madam President, I would like We live in a gloomy time. The Institute Idea notes that more and more countries are moving from democracy towards autocracy. Democratic freedoms and rights are being eroded. Invasion wars in Ukraine in recent weeks have shown that Russia does not respect international agreements on international law or human rights. This is an alarming development that the Swedish government, together with the rest of the world, needs to face with strong sanctions against the entire Russian leadership. However, as in so many other cases, we must be able to distinguish between the country's leaders and the civilian population and give all the support we can to civil society. We are debating human rights today. Of course, I support all the motions that we in the Christian Democrats have put forward in our committee motions, but I am only in favour of reservation 17 in paragraph 6. The government needs to work for a UN resolution that governments in the Middle East, North Africa and Asia should protect Christians and other religious minorities and be prepared to allow UN observers to review the necessary security measures. Each year the Open Doors organization presents its World Watch List of the 50 countries where the persecution of Christians is at its worst. Religious persecution affects people of all major religions. As far as Christians are concerned, persecution is increasing around the world, and in Afghanistan, North Korea and Nigeria it is extremely serious. In Afghanistan it has always been dangerous to leave Islam and become a Christian, but after the takeover of the Taliban, Christians are systematically sought out. Christian men are executed, and women are subjected to abuse and abuse. India is another area of concern. It is Asia's largest democracy and an important trading partner for Sweden and Europe. Unfortunately, human rights have deteriorated in line with a growing Hindu-nationalist agenda, and India is now on number ten in World Watch List 2022. Minority groups are subjected to serious abuse and persecution without interference from the police even when worship facilities are vandalized and burned down and church-keepers are killed. This affects both Christians and Muslims. In the country there are 200 million Muslims and 30 million Christians who are discriminated against, harassed and pushed out of caste society and thus lose the privileges associated with caste. Christian girls and women are often subjected to sexual harassment and violence and in some cases have also been subjected to trafficking. This has worsened during the pandemic, as Act Swedish Church and Open Doors report. The Swedish Government should place greater emphasis on the increased persecution of religious minorities and put pressure on the countries concerned to apply Articles 2 and 18 of the UN Declaration of Human Rights. The world around us also needs to act against China's treatment of the Muslim minority group Uighurs. Around 1 million Uighurs are in re-education camps. It's the biggest mass incarceration since World War II. Many women have been forced to sterilize. There are also reports of systematic abuse in the form of organ harvesting, where, against the will of a living person, body organs are removed to sell on the black transplant market. According to the Raoul Wallenberg Centre for Human Rights, the abuse of the Uighurs meets the criteria for genocide. Sweden needs to recognise that genocide is taking place and put pressure on the international community to act to condemn the Chinese state's actions against the Uighurs. Even Christians in China are persecuted and not allowed to exercise their faith freely. Christian Uighurs find it particularly difficult – they are squeezed between the Muslim majority of the Uighurs and the Chinese central power. The United States has imposed sanctions on Chinese politicians and companies that it considers to be responsible for the abuse of Uighurs. The EU has also joined in this. The Swedish government should work through the EU to ensure that it regularly addresses the situation of Uighurs, Christians and other minorities in China. Madam President, I would like Today's report also includes the SRHR issues, i.e. the issues of sexual and reproductive health and rights. It is worrying to see that the freedom and self-determination of girls and women in particular has deteriorated in many countries and how LGBT people are being persecuted. Let me give just one example. Every person has the right to his own life and body. It is obvious in our society, but it is far from the reality of many cultures on our planet. Millions of girls have been forced to leave school as a result of the pandemic and have been married away. In countries where sexual education is inadequate and contraception is prohibited unless the husband agrees to it, semi-adult girls become pregnant and give birth before the body is mature for it, which means increased risks both to the child who becomes a mother and to the newborn child. Every year a girl has time to go to school gives her better opportunities for life, both in terms of knowledge and in terms of mental and physical development. Therefore, Sweden, as one of many necessary measures, needs to press for child marriage and for women and girls who have given birth to have the right to return to school. Sweden will continue to be a strong advocate of sexual and reproductive health and rights. Madam President, I would like In this debate, I would also like to highlight the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Dag Hammarskjöld, who, over 60 years ago, was killed in a plane crash in Ndola together with the other 16 on board the Swedish planet Albertina. The plane crashed in the then British colony Nordrhodesia. The circumstances surrounding the death of Dag Hammarskjöld are investigated by Judge Mohamed Chande Othman on behalf of the UN General Assembly. There are serious doubts as to how the Swedish Government handled the investigations in the course of the fatal air crash. The Swedish experts sent out were strongly critical of how the Rhodesian colonial power conducted the investigation. African eyewitnesses who had seen an airplane above Albertina and the lights between the planes before the crash were discredited. It refused to carry out investigations into the wreck that could have detected the presence of ammunition or explosives. Without any apparent explanation, the Swedish government swung in line with the northern rhodesic explanation that the crash was due to mistakes by the pilot. Until a few years ago, the survivors of the crew have had to live with the accusation that it was the pilot's fault. This is a stain on the Swedish history that we need to get to the bottom of. I would urge the government to appoint an independent working group with historical competence for the source critical review of available material to clarify the balances that Swedish governments make in connection with the circumstances surrounding the death of Dag Hammarskjöld. We owe this to the memory of the Swede who has received the highest international office and who was described by President Kennedy as the greatest statesman of our time.
i-PYAymrV2RFD7z8tJSSbNo6	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the motion to be approved in the Committee on Foreign Affairs' report as a whole. In this report, the committee has chosen to deal with human rights issues from a thematic point of view, and the areas of treatment are selected from the point of view of motion. This means that we have taken a position on the motions that have come in and dealt with the report on the basis of their content. This report therefore concerns a number of areas, such as international law, human rights and the rule of law, crimes against humanity, democracy and freedom of expression, women's rights, sexual and reproductive health and rights, and the rights of persons belonging to ethnic and religious minorities. I cannot go deeper into all areas – time is not enough for that – but safeguarding human rights is a cornerstone of Sweden's overall foreign policy. It is a central part of international law and a prerequisite for the maintenance of peace and security, but also for fair, equal and sustainable development. Human rights, democracy and the rule of law are also fundamental prerequisites for the implementation of Agenda 2030, as Mr Ek said. He also described the problem of targets, but it should be pointed out that the committee is behind the government's efforts to have a higher ambition than Agenda 2030. It should be seen as an absolute minimum. Madam President, I would like Human rights are central, not only in definition, but also in the very maintenance of democracy and the rule of law. At the same time, human rights themselves depend on the existence of democratic and rule of law systems so that they can be fully enjoyed. This is a problem we are seeing more and more now that authoritarian states are not related to this, but are increasingly restricting people's rights. Madam President, I would like Democracy is the government that gives people the greatest opportunity to influence society and their own lives. It is also a prerequisite for economic, environmental and social development. Respect for freedom of expression and opinion is a prerequisite for everyone's ability to participate actively in political processes and to engage in societal issues. Respect for freedom of expression and opinion is also a prerequisite for the enjoyment of a range of other rights and freedoms, such as freedom of assembly and association, freedom of religion and the right to education. Democracy cannot be taken for granted – it is something we must fight for every day. It is terrible to see that so many of those who actually do so literally every day in many places in the world suffer such disastrous consequences. Some are forced to flee their country. Many are beaten and imprisoned. Many have also suffered the ultimate consequence and paid with their lives. I have had the privilege of meeting and talking with several of these human rights and democracy activists, who have had to leave their home countries but who continue the struggle from other parts of the world. It is often almost incomprehensiblely difficult to understand and take in what they tell. Yet they continue to tell their history to the outside world to inform about what is happening. For that I have nothing but great respect and admiration. Their strength comes from the dream of living a free life and deciding over their own life, which is something we often take for granted. Madam President, I would like People and states are committing crimes against humanity and human rights, as we have unfortunately seen many times throughout the world. We have seen it – and we see it – against human rights activists in Latin America. We have seen it in the war in former Yugoslavia and in other wars around the world. We have seen it in the imprisonment of individuals and in the attempted murder and murder of people as a state considered dangerous to the regime. We see it in the form of rape of women as warfare. We also see it right now in our immediate vicinity with Russia's illegal and indefensible invasion of Ukraine. When this happens, the perpetrators shall be held accountable and punished for their actions. The Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court contains rules on the prosecution of individuals for the most serious crimes under international law. Although all states have the right to prosecute and judge for the most serious international crimes, it has historically been shown that people responsible for such crimes have often escaped prosecution and that victims of crime have not been compensated. Sweden shall support the work of the International Criminal Court by working towards the accession of more states to the International Criminal Court. But we must also work actively to ensure that states and international organisations cooperate fully so that the Court can fulfil its mandate to prosecute and ensure that equality before the law applies, regardless of where and by whom the crimes are committed. Madam President, I would like When it comes to violence-promoting Islamism, which, like other violent ideologies, is raised in some motions, the committee wishes to emphasise that this is a threat to democratic societies. Such ideologies shall be fought with full force, and persons who have contributed to terrorist offences shall be held accountable and sentenced for their actions. Madam President, I would like Democracy does not work unless one half of the population participates and actually enjoys rights, representation and resources in the same way as the other half does. The committee therefore believes that feminist foreign policy and the work on human rights, democracy and the rule of law should go hand in hand. Feminist foreign policy shall contribute to and promote women's representation and influence in decision-making processes at all levels, including management levels, and in all areas. The increased participation of women in preventing, managing and resolving conflicts as well as in peace building and post-conflict reconstruction is a prerequisite for achieving sustainable international peace and security and is an important part of conflict prevention. When it comes to sexual and reproductive health and rights, SRHR, it includes every person's equal opportunities, rights and conditions to determine their own body, sexuality and reproduction without coercion, violence or discrimination. Thus, SRHR also has direct bearing on everything from education levels to economics. Nevertheless, in many countries LGBTI people are prevented from enjoying these rights, Madam President. Issues such as sex and cohabitation education and sexual orientation and gender identity remain controversial in many contexts. Increased polarisation of the issues is clear both within the EU and at the UN, where agreements already made are being called into question. It is therefore important that Sweden continues to be a powerful voice for LGBTI people's equal value and rights in foreign policy and development policy and in all other relevant contexts. We also see that sexual violence is increasingly used in strategic warfare, despite all the resolutions that exist about it. We have already noted in the past that women and girls in many conflicts are direct targets for sexual and gender-based violence. According to Sweden's action plan for feminist foreign policy, we will continue to sharpen the SRHR approach at all levels. Madam President, I would like In 2007, the UN adopted the so-called Indigenous Declaration. It is not binding on UN Member States, but it is indicative. Human rights issues for indigenous peoples are often closely linked to land and nature. On environmental and human rights issues, several reports have shown how people's right to a reasonable standard of living and health is threatened by unsustainable exploitation. It also runs counter to democratic governance and the principles of responsible business. It is therefore important that countries attach great importance to the active participation of indigenous peoples in decisions affecting them. Sweden highlights the issue of indigenous human rights in several cooperation strategies. Madam President, I would like Something else we have seen for a long time and as we see on an increasing scale is the problem of trafficking and human trafficking. Organ thefts have been mentioned here and that people end up in sexual trafficking but actually also pure slavery. These are crimes of devastating scale and consequences. In 2016, the Government appointed an ambassador to act as a driving force in the fight against trafficking in human beings and, among other things, work to ensure that the gender perspective is given special attention in the international efforts against trafficking in human beings. Trafficking in human beings, whatever its purpose, is a gross violation of the human rights of the individuals affected. This violation must continue to be combated. Finally, I would like to thank you for many constructive contributions to the debate and work on the report.
i-6CNoJVW8nbJ7x1Uzp6YHXG	Madam President, I would like In my speech, I will talk about the serious situation in view of Russia's inhumane invasion of Ukraine. Every morning many Ukrainians and Swedes text or call their relatives or friends who are in Ukraine. You pick up the phone, you send a message and you wait for an answer. Even if the wait is only a few seconds, it is unbearablely long. I'm one of those people who text me every morning to see what's going on and if there's been bombings during the night. I know what a relief it is when the answer comes, because that means that the person has survived the night. Now the war has been going on for over a month. While we are here debating, people gather in streets and squares around Sweden and protest and raise money for people in Ukraine and for organisations. Tens of thousands of people have died, and many millions of people are on the run – all of this because of a crazy dictator in the Kremlin. Russian troops destroy and bomb Ukrainian cities and kill civilians mercilessly. There is also evidence that the Russian troops are engaged in sexual violence and are taking children away. They're engaged in looting. They burn museums and blow up schools and hospitals. They're trying to destroy Ukraine as a country. The question we all have to ask ourselves is: Do we really think that those who commit these crimes against Ukrainians should be allowed to go free? The answer must of course be: No. Discharge cannot be an option. Therefore, it is good that Sweden is one of the leading countries to investigate war crimes. The Ukrainian State Attorney has also thanked us for that. Putin and his lackeys will be out of the Kremlin and brought to justice at the International Criminal Court in The Hague. This applies, of course, to all those who have been involved in the violations of international law that are under way. The report states that the ICC also has jurisdiction over aggression crimes. Russia's war is not just a war against Ukraine. It is a war against the sovereignty of all countries, against the self-determination of countries and against democracy and peace. When Ukraine defends itself, they not only defend their own country, but they defend the whole of Europe. That is why we must all help Ukraine. The world must help stop the war. I want to mention a few things that I think are particularly good with Sweden's actions in this situation, although of course Sweden does many more things to help stop the war. Firstly, we are moving forward with harsh sanctions against Russia. The sanctions are also directed at senior executives, such as Putin and Lavrov. Secondly, the Swedish police help the Ukrainian police with both drones and other materials. Thirdly, Sweden contributes medicines and half a billion SEK in humanitarian aid and, furthermore, 500 million SEK to the Central Bank of Ukraine to prevent the economy from crashing. Fourthly, Sweden, for the first time since Stalin's attack on Finland in 1939, supports military equipment. Fifthly, we decided last Thursday to contribute an additional 5 000 armored bulkheads. We have thus contributed a total of 10 000 armored bulkheads to Ukraine. In addition, we provide knowledge and materials for mine clearance. When the Russian troops occupy a city, they put a minefield around the city. Of course, it has devastating consequences, not least for children. As I said, these are just some of the things that Sweden is contributing. The report states that the EU needs to pursue a progressive trade policy. I would therefore like to say that Swedish companies should not try to circumvent or evade sanctions against Russia. In this context, progressive policies are also closely linked to security policy. It is good that Oriflame, for example, has now withdrawn from Russia. This also applies to Spotify, even if it was far away. The companies that continue their activities there will be followed up. The sanctions shall be followed. Swedish companies, take your responsibility! I would also like to appeal to the Swedish authorities and the media. They should spell Ukrainian cities and places in Ukrainian. Start with it immediately and thereby also acknowledge that there is a unique Ukrainian culture, something that Putin denies! In practice, this simply means that instead of using the old spelling Kiev, it spells Kyiv. With all this, we are putting great pressure on Russia to end its unjust war against Ukraine. I hope, as I believe everyone in here is doing, that Ukraine's freedom will prevail. Long live Sweden! Slava Ukraine!
i-H7qiXMC5crH8Lt9Vqnj6X2	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a very good debate! I shall begin by calling for the approval of our reservation 13, so that I have done so. Madam President, I would like From the Liberal side, we talk about a value-based foreign policy, and it is precisely a foreign policy that puts human rights first. And I say human rights, because I mean that people have rights that are inherent in all people, no matter what is in different documents. Regardless of which documents Xi Jinping or Magdalena Andersson has chosen to sign, there are rights that every person has, no matter who it is. It is human rights, and it is partly something other than human rights, that we agree legally and internationally that people should have. We believe that the whole foreign policy must be based on defending human rights. In the report we have chosen to talk about human rights, which in part reflect human rights in a thematic way. We are talking about important areas such as sexual and reproductive health and rights, we are talking about the rights of ethnic and religious minorities, indigenous peoples' rights, women's rights, democracy, freedom of expression and freedom of organisation. And of course we're talking about curbing human rights violations. We're talking about international law. These are all important inputs to the defence of human rights. But, Madam President, it is not enough just to do this. Our reservation is about further strengthening the work for women's rights. We also believe that Sweden should put an even greater focus on democracy and building democracy in the world. It is clear that doing so will also strengthen all the other rights; they are part of each other. But democracy and the defence of human rights are also strengthening other forms of rights. Madam President, I would like We are now seeing in Russia's war of aggression against Ukraine, a war that is not just about Ukraine but about violations of all forms of rights and values of democracy, that Russia is attacking our common rights and freedoms that we have as human beings. It shows the importance of defending these rights everywhere and all the time and showing that there are actually opponents of this in the world. Madam President, I think it has been interesting to listen to this debate. And I agree with what the Center Party Magnus Ek said here earlier about Agenda 2030, that we will do everything we can to achieve Agenda 2030. And, as the Social Democrats said, we will do more to achieve even more than we are committed to Agenda 2030. But it is clear that this is a good example of what happens when you compromise with dictatorships. Then not all human rights will be taken into account. Then not all aspects of democracy are taken advantage of. Although what is contained in Agenda 2030 is good, there are also parts that are missing. It is precisely because of this that it is a compromise. Finally, it is a good example and a good reason why Sweden should seek not only to protect human rights, as laid down in various documents, but also to protect human rights wherever she is in the world in its value-based foreign policy.
i-3AV1ceL9Aba2ksYKRY8mCH	Madam President, I would like Indigenous peoples around the world are still living in difficult conditions because of the unwillingness of states to recognise and support their rights. Sweden is one of several countries that has received international criticism for not having ratified ILO Convention 169 on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples. We are one of the countries that are being criticised internationally for failing to live up to our obligations to respect Sami human rights. We now see quite concretely in the decision to allow the iron ore mine in renbetesland in G á llok how Sweden's Minister for Economic Affairs Karl-Petter-Petter Thorwaldsson has totally ignored indigenous Sami rights in Sweden. We in the Green Party wrote a motion on the importance of acting in order to protect the rights of indigenous peoples internationally, and I would now like to call for approval, motion 2021 22:4211 motions 13 and 9. We know that indigenous peoples' rights are important, not just because it is decent to respect them. We are also seeing how the UN Panel on Biological Diversity can conclude that life itself, biodiversity, is better protected in the areas managed by indigenous peoples. And we see how climate change and other environmental threats actually threaten indigenous peoples' rights. Madam President, I would like The rights of indigenous peoples and the rights of the Sami people in Sweden are a matter of decency, just as respect for the rights of other groups is. We in Sweden often beat our chests, rightly, because we are good at standing up for human rights nationally and internationally, but here we have an important lesson to do.
i-TGRGbYb96LH4XLCW6uTq8T	Madam President, I would like I think we can all remember teachers who have meant a lot to us, those who have inspired and pushed on, who have been good at their lessons and lectures and who have made clear demands on us as students. I think we can also remember the reverse from time to time. I think this shows how important teachers really are for our learning. One of the major challenges of the school, Madam President, I think, is precisely to restore the role and status of teachers in society. Unfortunately, there are many teachers today who cannot fully do their important work, because there is a lack of order and study, or because they have a vision of knowledge that makes you be seen as a coach rather than a teacher, or because steering documents can be perceived as unclear or fuzzy. It is also worrying that as many as one of the third teacher students drop out during the course of the education and that another one in five teacher students drop out early in the profession in one of the first years. We must, of course, reverse this if we are to get the school and Sweden in order. We do this with measures such as increased studyo and a different view of knowledge with a focus on factual knowledge and a strengthened teacher role. We do this with higher demands to get into a teacher's education and also higher requirements during the course of the education. We do this with independent teachers and with better supplementary education for those who later in life want to switch careers to the important teaching job. Madam President, I would like A second major challenge we have in Sweden is a lack of knowledge of Swedish. One thing that has led to this is that in the last few years we have been able to see that the proportion of pupils who have arrived later and do not attend all the school years in Sweden has doubled. I think most people can understand that if you, for example, come to middle school and have lost a number of school years, it is not quite easy to meet the school's demands and expectations later on. One thing that makes me particularly concerned is all the children who grow up in Sweden without proper knowledge of Swedish. We talk to be clear not about perfect Swedish but about understandable Swedish. You can already see at the child health centre, the BVC, that there are children who do not have enough vocabulary to pass the school or the requirements of life later. It's very serious. If these children are not given the right conditions now, the chances are that the latter will be knocked out. Here I think the government has been far too lax. Proposals are being put forward as preschools for more people. But it is based on volunteering and encouragement. I believe that the Socialist line on voluntaryism will lead to the continued exclusion of children. On the contrary, what we need to do is compulsory language learning. It should be a coercion that still means giving children the right conditions to be able to cope with both school and life. A third challenge is that we need to raise the overall level of knowledge. There are an incredible number of children who could go much further in life. For some they can t be about that they get above the bar for approved while for others it is about learning a lot more in Swedish or mathematics and reaching much longer. Already eight years ago, Magdalena Andersson promised that she would make sure to halve the percentage of failed students in Swedish school. At the same time, she said that the number of shootings would be halved and that Sweden would have Europe's lowest unemployment. The grade is in some way clearly failed in this. That's a record of shootings. We have unemployment, which is one of Europe's highest, and about the same number are eliminated. You can make rhetorical points about this and talk about grading systems linked to the Prime Minister. But what I think is really bad about this is that behind the social democrats' school failure there are thousands of children who have been knocked out and continue to be knocked out in school. There are adults who do not go to work and people who are literally shot to death in Sweden today. That, if anything, is one reason why we need to change education policies in this country, among other things, in order to give thousands of children a year completely different, new and positive life chances and opportunities in life. Of course, you have to do several things to get there. Course and curriculum changes this autumn. I don't think that's enough. We need a completely different focus on knowledge, learning, factual knowledge and early learning. The Moderates suggest longer school days and that you already in primary school should have more teaching in subjects such as mathematics and Swedish so that we go in line with comparable countries. We need to have measures to study so that children can concentrate clearly in class. We need special support and, if necessary, not least the important resource schools. I also think that we need to strike a blow for special efforts on talented and particularly talented students. There are experiments here and where you can study, for example, upper secondary school courses in comprehensive school and the like. I would welcome more such initiatives. Together with other efforts, it is really about giving all children a chance to reach their full potential. Madam President, I would like I would therefore like, at the end of the day, to ask for the approval of reservation 21.
i-Ld8boJ6a9WdV9qGPSBVEkX	Madam President, I would like We in the Swedish Democrats support all our reservations, but for the gain of time I only ask for reservation 29. During its almost eight years in power, the current government has also failed in its school policy. It is about creating a pleasant high-quality school where both students and teachers feel that they have access to the best possible educational environment. It is a school where all students come to their school and feel safe, get their studies and the opportunity to grow every day in their education. It is a school where teachers have the opportunity to communicate their knowledge to their students through their pedagogy, without too often having to act as police or social workers. So I'm talking about a school where teachers have the opportunity to develop themselves and to pursue their careers with their own strength. We do not have this school in all of Sweden. It's in a few places, but far from everywhere. But the ambition must be to get there. This is a major failure and, unfortunately, the Social Democratic Government must take the blame for this. Madam President, I would like Today we also have a school where the mental ill-health of the students has reached levels we have never before seen. It depends on many factors. Concerns about being beaten or robbed on their school day may be mentioned. It may be to be constantly monitored in an honorary culture. There may be poor study environment in the classroom. It can be unclear and abstract knowledge requirements that create uncertainty and are difficult for parents to help with. These are just a few problems that Swedish students are struggling with today. So there are many reasons for pupils' mental health problems, and for some the school's pupil health can make a huge difference, especially in a preventive purpose. Between our municipalities and between different schools in the municipalities, there are today large differences in access to pupil health. In recent years, in many schools there has been a removal of student health for the benefit of something else. Access to student health is very unequal. For example, there are places where a school nurse may be responsible for up to 1,000 students to compare with the more reasonable around 400. I did a survey about ten years ago in my hometown of Malmö. It showed enormous shortcomings and enormous inequalities in ill-health between schools. Unfortunately, there have been little noticeable differences since that time. We can't have this. We therefore propose the introduction of staffing levels for pupil health. That is where we base our minimum standards on the profession and the investigation that proposed this but which was unfortunately removed. We verigedemocrats follow these levels and propose that a ceiling be set for how many student health personnel are responsible for. It should be a school doctor for 7,000 students, a school nurse for 430 students, a psychologist for 1,000 students and a curator for 400 students. In order for this to be realised, more resources need to be allocated, which is our priority. We also suggest that all school staff with contact with students undergo educational efforts to gain a basic understanding of mental illness in order to be able to connect student health at an early stage and that students should have forward-looking meetings with the school's curator. In addition, we see that knowledge of the widespread culture of honor must be improved among all school staff. Here we propose that this be included in the continuous work environment work and that each school should have an action plan for this. Honorary education shall also be provided as compulsory further education for school staff in vulnerable areas. Mental ill health among young people and children must be taken very seriously, and here no party can duck. Madam President, I would like Being a teacher today means having a multifaceted profession. In addition to creating interesting and educational lessons and educating your students, you should document each step and deviation for each student. Of course, some things need to be documented, but perhaps not all that is being documented today and perhaps not in the same way. Here we need a thorough review of what is really necessary to document. Greater priority must be given to teacher-led teaching. It has gone so far that many teachers stop, or are thinking of quitting, as teachers because of the excessive documentation requirements. They simply do not have time to prioritise their core mission: to educate their students. To be a teacher should be to have an attractive profession that attracts promising students. It will lead to our maintaining our good teaching staff. We Swedish democrats see the need for clear career paths that offer all teachers a development at their own pace. In addition to proposing a type of career system, in which the development of teaching staff in the profession provides opportunities for higher positions and higher pay, we propose a training system that harmonises with the career system. It should be clear and easy to see what it takes to choose the career path desired. At a time like this, when the Swedish school needs to rise a few steps, it is of the utmost importance that we retain our teachers and all other educational staff and that we attract talented students to choose these amazing professions. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to stress the importance of the school's staff and others who come into contact with pupils through the school submitting a record statement which is then documented. It is an important part of the school's safety work and is particularly important for the children's perspective. For this reason, the Swedish Democrats believe that the previous rules for this should be reintroduced. I will conclude my speech with an invitation to all of you to give a thought to the families of the two teachers who were brought to life at the Latin School in my hometown. It is a school that lies parallel to the school where I myself went to high school. Don't ever let it happen again!
i-MCxAcVhX2cCHgfhJ2Jby6o	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Center Party's reservation 13. Of course, we support all our reservations, but we only call for the benefits of time to be granted. What is being discussed today are teachers and students. What is most important in school is the meeting that takes place between teachers and pupils in the classroom and that teachers have the opportunity to both plan and implement their teaching in a good way. Students will be met by skilled teachers who give them the opportunity to take steps further in their development from where they stand. For this, students need to feel secure, feel good and have the opportunity to influence their everyday lives. For the Center Party, it is important that we strengthen student health. It is important that more students can have the opportunity to reduce mental illness and increase mental health. It is about increasing the possibility of physical activity in order to influence in this way to proposals that we have presented over the past year about, for example, strengthening the support line at Bris. It is also about increasing efforts on student health in order to have more opportunity for support talks. We will come back in this House to a bill on pupil health, when we will have the opportunity to take these discussions further. I would like to take this opportunity to highlight the possibility of competence development so that all staff in school will have good opportunities to meet the students and contribute to their being able to get better health. There are several parts to the motion report that we are debating today. I would like, on behalf of the Center Party, to highlight some parts that are particularly important. A good foundation for comprehensive school is the conditions that are created in preschool. There, the Center Party has presented proposals for a child care lift and national guidelines related to the number of trained staff per child in order to thus create better conditions. The children attending preschool are to be met by trained and skilled staff. It is both about preschool teachers and about those who are unskilled in preschool being given the opportunity to receive further education and thus become child care workers. A national standard is also needed to ensure that child care training is good throughout the country. Whether it's about preschool teachers, about teachers in primary and secondary schools or komvux or about principals and managers in both school and preschool, it's important that there are good opportunities for competence development to increase the attractiveness of school and for more people to want to become teachers and principals. In this way, one can strengthen one's professional role, but it also offers an opportunity to make a career. We want to see that the professional programme that has begun is in place so that we lay the foundations and create the conditions for both teachers and principals to be given good opportunities for competence development. It is important to break the educational segregation at school, where those students with the worst conditions tend to meet the teachers who have the shortest education or unauthorised teachers. By investing in career positions in exclusion areas, we can make sure to create conditions and make it more attractive for experienced teachers to work with those students who have the most difficult conditions. However, in order to have more qualified teachers, we need to take the initiative to ensure that the principals – those who employ and are going to hire the future teachers – also take greater responsibility to ensure that there are placements, placements, schools. There should not be a bottleneck in the education system that needs to meet the needs of more teachers to a greater extent. Madam President, I would like It is important for students to have good conditions, and it is also important that teachers have good conditions. We see a need for both teachers and principals to be given better opportunities from the principals to reduce administration. We also have an important responsibility at national level to ensure that we simply reduce administration and ensure that teachers can focus more on teaching and planning. It is also about giving the principals better opportunities to work with the pedagogical leadership and school leadership to develop schools in a better way. We highlight several parts of this in the report, in which we emphasise in particular that there are good reasons for improving the conditions for the principals. We want to give them a clearer mandate but also stronger support in terms of working and controlling their activities in order to meet the challenges and problems they face. So we can also ensure that we get more students who pass the school and thus create better conditions for both further studies and work. Madam President, I would like The report deals with principals, teachers and students. That's exactly what school's about. To get to a school where people thrive, where principals feel that they have support and mandates, where teachers have the opportunity to focus on and plan their teaching and where students get a place for knowledge and education – that's what the school debate should continue to be about.
i-PsBXeKye4Lt1kUhZG3BHo3	Madam President, I would like Pupils' right to education requires that the school is accessible to all and that there are well-trained teachers and other resources needed to provide good quality education. All schools need competent, qualified teachers who can meet the needs of each student in their teaching and who can actively participate in the educational development. Today there is a great lack of qualified teachers and educators in Swedish schools. The lack of qualified staff makes it possible, in practice, to work for several years at the same school or preschool as an unauthorised person. The Left Party is convinced that those who choose to work as a teacher for several years also have the capacity to take a teacher's degree. The same applies to educators in preschools and recreation centres. Today, however, there is a lack of sufficient incentives for many principals to support their substitutes and unauthorised employees to read themselves to jurisdiction. It can also be noted that many independent schools have fewer qualified teachers because it is cheaper to bring in unauthorised teachers. In this way, the profit-making school groups can increase their profit margins. The Left Party wants to facilitate the supply of personnel in the various shortages of welfare, such as teachers and preschool teachers, among other things by introducing the so-called Dala model nationally. The model means a new form of education where students can get employment at the same time as they study. Madam President, I would like Another problem that makes the supply of teachers difficult is the fact that many independent but also municipal schools have put in systems to hire unauthorized teachers. The large private school groups are doing this so that, as I said earlier, the business will yield more returns, while municipal schools are forced to do so when the majority of the country's municipalities are making major cuts in their budgetary frameworks. In addition, some private school groups are exempted from the legislation on the requirement of teacher identification because their schools, for example, have an international profile. This is something that needs to change. We in the Left Party believe that even schools with international profiles should follow the Swedish curriculum, which applies to all schools in Sweden, and that they absolutely should not receive exceptions when it comes to the teacher's ID. It is incomprehensible that a majority in the Swedish Parliament does not think that this is obviously something that needs to be changed. In this connection, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 2. Madam President, I would like In addition to what I have said so far, there are more important issues that are absolutely crucial to get more people to want to work in school and more to want to study to become teachers, and also to be able to get teachers to stay in the Swedish school. Perhaps the most important issue is the working environment. The working environment in preschool and school needs to be improved. The school system is today Sweden's largest workplace but at the same time also one of the absolutely worst in terms of the working environment. There are few occupational groups that would be willing to work under the conditions under which pre-school and school staff, mostly women, are forced to work. Large amounts of administration, too few colleagues and unadapted premises are just some of the things that belong to the everyday life of the teachers. The Left Party wants to give the school more resources. We also want to see a systematic change that is beyond market logic and new public management. It is important to improve the working conditions of teachers and school staff as a whole in order to counter the shortage of teachers and other professional groups at school. The work environment and the work situation are the most common reasons why teachers choose to work with something other than school. Madam President, I would like In order for the teachers' work environment to improve, they need to have more colleagues who have different skills than to be teachers. For example, a better functioning student health system is needed. I heard earlier people who mentioned from the speaker's chair that they were in favour of having key figures in student health. The Left Party has proposed this on several occasions, but it has never been supported by any party in the Swedish parliament. If children feel bad, it is important that they receive professional treatment. Today, that responsibility falls far too often on overworked teachers. Many educated teachers and preschool teachers today work in other professions. With a better working environment we can get a lot of these back to work in school again. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, I would like to say that the situation and the working environment have deteriorated considerably, as I mentioned earlier in my speech, because of the market logic prevailing in the Swedish school. When students become customers, when knowledge is considered a commodity, and when teachers and principals are supposed to be salesmen, something is not right. It has consequences for teachers, for pupils and for school leaders. These are the consequences we are seeing today. That is why we must take back democratic control of the Swedish school.
i-SGGLYssAi3N8bjTKiwDsXe	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of the Christian Democrats' reservation 22. I usually say that a good school starts with good teachers who inspire knowledge and manage to keep order in the classroom. But a good school actually starts with a good principal. Sweden's Vice-Chancellors are some of Sweden's most important managers. If we are to improve the results of knowledge, we must also ensure that we have the best possible principals and that they choose to remain in the profession. The other week I met with Matz Nilsson, Federal Chairman of the Swedish School Leaders' Association. We talked about, among other things, that principals now leave their mission more often than before. Principals don't stay on average even three years in their post. Some municipalities also limit the term of office of the Vice-Chancellor. They should stop doing that. But there are also several other explanations. Ten years ago, 2 per cent of the principals and school leaders stated that they were subjected to undue influence, violations, threats or violence. Today that figure has risen to 30%. I think it is an example that shows that from now on the school must be conducted on the terms of teachers and principals so that more people remain in the profession. But the Swedish School Inspectorate also needs to be asked to investigate what else is due to the fact that so many principals stop after such a short time. Madam President, I would like Too many children are betrayed in today's Sweden. In SVT's mission audit: The letter children we met with Ture. Ture gets anxiety when he's in school, but he also gets anxiety when he's not in school because he's not there. This suggests that we need to deal with this uniformity school, which means that many students are taught the same way and in the same classroom against their will, even though it affects these children and their families very much. We need more special teachers, special support needs to be strengthened and special teaching groups should be offered by each school so that more children can get through school. Madam President, I would like I would like to say a few words about the tragic event in Malmö Latin when an 18-year-old student armed with axe and knife went to brutal attack on two female teachers – two beloved and popular teachers, who have now lost their lives. There are many of us who feel strongly about the staff and students in Malmö Latin, not least those who were at the school at the time of the attack and those who attended the memorial ceremony afterwards. Above all, of course, the women's family is yours and friends. It hurts to note that this was the third school attack in six months in Skåne– Eslöv, Kristianstad and now Malmö. We in here now need to do what we can to prevent this type of crime. We need to be sure to catch the warning signals in time. We need to strengthen student health so that every child can get in touch with student health every day and are offered routine discussions. The Christian Democrats also want children's and youth health services to take a concerted approach to pupil health. We believe that in this way we could secure more resources. Regardless of what you feel about it, we now need to help catch more children on time. This gives more children the opportunity to pass school, and so do we make society safe.
i-9TiWMcw5bQMcpjmzU1EgRd	Madam President, I would like Teachers and students are called this exercise report, and I intend to start with the students. They must always be our starting point. Knowledge is easy to carry, we say. A child's schooling never replays, is something we also usually say. These are some of the reasons why Liberals attach such importance to the high quality of teaching and the expectations of students. At least as important is that the school gives all children, regardless of their background or gender identity, equal opportunities to succeed. We see that boys' lower knowledge results are a significant problem for gender equality in society. The Swedish National Agency for Education's studies show that girls at school feel increasingly insecure. It cannot be overemphasised that this is not acceptable. The school will be characterized by study and safety. Many students suffer from mental illness from experiencing stress and pressure in everyday life, but they also feel anxiety that can lead to self-harm and other types of problems. There are no quick solutions to the widespread mental illness that we see. Although we would also like there to be such things, it is about long-term work with student health, but also about better cooperation with bup and in some cases social services and so on. Madam President, I would like Liberals believe that the school should be at its strongest where the students' conditions are at their weakest. That is not the case today. A serious problem, which we have heard of from this speaker's seat before, is educational segregation, that is, teacher competence in terms of competence and experience is lower in schools in vulnerable areas. That is why we in the Liberals want to invest in attracting experienced and trained teachers there. In order to achieve this, we need to invest in higher wages, but that is far from enough. At least as important is that teachers are offered better working conditions and lower workload. This can be done by increasing teacher density, which means that you can reduce the number of lessons for the teachers without doing the same with the students' teaching time. Madam President, I would like It is worrying that fewer and fewer, although we may have stopped the worst of it, qualified academics with an interest in teaching are considering becoming teachers and that many teachers who are currently working in the school system feel that their workplace is not attractive and are considering leaving the same place. It is as regrettable as it is understandable. Liberals believe that the teaching role should be respected as a profession by gaining good opportunities to prioritise teaching and thus strengthen the school's knowledge-sharing mission. Madam President, I would like Those of you who are here have heard representatives from the Liberals talking about this recurring. We do not have any quick solutions there either. We believe that action is needed at both national and local level to restore the attractiveness of the teaching profession. It is about strengthening the governance and distribution of resources by renationalising schools, both primary and secondary schools, thereby assuming the employer responsibility for the teaching staff. The working environment of teachers needs to be strengthened by further reforms than those that have been put on our table for greater security and study. Teachers must also have better opportunities and opportunities to focus and concentrate on teaching. The school can do a lot but not everything. This must be reflected in both policy documents and curricula. We want to streamline the curricula with the aim of reducing administrative burdens and other charges that are not directly related to the school's knowledge assignments. The lack of teachers is not a law of nature. With the right policies, more people will go to the teaching profession. Madam President, I would like Of course, we support all our reservations, but I call for the benefit of time to be granted only to reservation 4.
i-MbcJwGAAtrV2M34rinLoNE	Madam President, I would like Everyone must have equal access to education in the school system, irrespective of their geographical location and social and economic circumstances. Education in the school system must be equivalent in every form of school and in the recreation centre wherever it is organised in the country. These are two portal paragraphs of our school team. It is an important ambition: Every kid should have equal access to education of equal quality throughout our elongated country – at home in Älvsbyn where I live, in Östra Klagstorp at Söderslätt where I was born and here in Stockholm city centre where we hold this debate. Madam President, I would like This is also our biggest problem. Research as well as statistics, the OECD, government investigators and trade unions point to ever-increasing differences. The family background is gaining momentum in school results, and it is clear to everyone that the school system is contributing to segregation. It's really pretty obvious. As the school market works, it is the independent school that can best segregate a high-performance student base, i.e. students with a strong family background, who can also earn the most money. It is also the school market and incentives for profitability that create the need for ever stronger control, increased bureaucracy and administration and more detailed regulation. It is the school market and the functioning of the system that weakens the authority and status of the profession and leads to retaliation, threats and parental pressure. Anyone who wants all children to have access to good education, that all teachers should have a good working environment and that the teaching profession should have a higher status so that we get more applicants for teacher training and can solve the teacher shortage does best to change a dysfunctional system instead of proposing more detailed regulations, tougher inspection and more bureaucracy. Although the right wing of this House is not, at least I have it so that I would rather cure the disease than try to relieve the symptoms with damn bitter medicine. Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Education Committee's report No 16 on teachers and pupils. It deals with 213 claims from general exercise time. They deal with a wide range of issues such as the teaching profession, register control, continuing education, principals and school leaders, primary and secondary schools, especially talented pupils and pupils with special needs, pupils with school absences, teaching for new arrivals, pupils' health and more. The majority of the committee proposes that the whole thing be rejected. It sounds harsh, but it is about all the proposals that are being dealt with today being tantamount to various things that we have already implemented or are working on implementing. V in education policy has an intense spring ahead of us. Let me give you an illustration of what it will be like. This spring the committee is working on the preparation and decision-making of a large number of legislative proposals that the Socialist Government has tabled. We will re-establish higher education qualifications in upper secondary school, while at the same time we will completely rebuild upper secondary school so that it becomes subject-shaped and dimensioned in order to better match labour needs in society. We deliver on our election promise about homework help guarantee and extended holiday school. We will regulate student health's assignments and staffing more clearly in order for all students to have better access to better pupil health. At the same time, we strengthen primary school with a guarantee of early support efforts and make the special school that has been too retarded to become an adapted education for those with intellectual disabilities. We are moving forward with our national plan for security and studyo, stronger prevention and clearer systematics – the best violation is, after all, the one that never happens – but also clarified and strengthened authority for school staff. In addition, we regulate resource schools in the School Act and authorise the Swedish National Agency for Education to issue regulations for a more equivalent application of how the provisions on additional payments are to be interpreted. We regulate educational care with higher quality requirements and prior to ownership and management testing. We are putting forward proposals aimed at more children, especially those who need it for their language development, going to preschool. Madam President, I would like We are also beginning to take back democratic control of the school. As I said at the outset, anyone who really wants to improve the Swedish school must start by changing the system, which has become a market with a lot of totally unacceptable consequences. We are therefore proposing a tighter regulation of non-confessional schools. We suggest that the school grant should reflect the principals' responsibilities and be distributed according to the students' conditions and needs. We want to eliminate the unfair queues, so that the school elections can be more fair and work for everyone, not just for those who have read about the functioning of the system and who live in the same place throughout the school life of the children. More will be needed, but these are important proposals for the overall functioning of the school system. Madam President, I would like All young people should have equal access to education of the same high quality – in Älvsbyn as well as in Östra Klagstorp and Stockholm. The working environment in school must improve and the status of the teaching profession must be restored. That is why we must also regain democratic control of the school. I support the proposal contained in report No 16 of the Committee on Education and Training.
i-RtD8DudCRQejCixQFoUDQE	Madam President, I would like Today, bleak statistics on the number of qualified teachers were presented. More needs to be done to make the teaching profession more attractive. A great deal has been done. Teachers' salaries have been strengthened by the Teacher's Salary Lift, and we see that international measurements are moving in the right direction when it comes to the attractiveness of the profession. But more needs to be done. Today, teachers are increasingly treated as service staff in the Swedish school. In the school market, parents and students have sometimes started acting like customers. This is a major problem that threatens the status of the teaching profession, and it affects right into the classroom when parents even threaten teachers. You threaten to take your school allowance and go unless the child gets a higher grade than the teacher thinks the child deserves, to take an example. Madam President, I would like We must also introduce a professional programme. The government delivers on much of what we in the Green Party have worked out together with the Social Democrats and indeed also the Center Party and the Liberals. But one product is missing, and it is important that it is in place so that we have a strong teacher and principal professorship in this country. The Profession Programme is about re-establishing the right to competence development. School heads shall be obliged to offer them to teachers, who shall teach throughout their professional lives based on research and proven experience. And as everyone knows, research is progressing over 40 years of working life. One thing that we in the Green Party particularly see the need for further training on is the issue of sexuality, consent and relationships. Here we have written about the curriculum. It started with a small motion from an environmentalist MP, and now it will become a reality. We have decided that all newly trained teachers should gain knowledge about sexuality, consent and relationships in their teacher education. What about the existing teachers? Although the National Agency for Education has been given a mission, we in the Green Party believe that this knowledge is so central that it must reach everyone. Therefore, Madam President, in paragraph 8 of the report I would like to support my motion 2021/22.1717, which deals with this issue. Just before I came to this Chamber, I met four young people and talked about their everyday lives. They are part of a youth group for LGBTI people in Gothenburg. What they described strengthened my conviction about the importance of training all school staff. They have faced incomprehension and even bullying because of who they are. Then, instead of contradicting and questioning, adults have actually participated in a destructive jargon. Then we have a long way to go. With that, I would like to thank you for today's debate on teachers and students.
