i-9MqkZUbQM59mi14FHRBteJ	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me whether I intend to take steps to ensure a reasonable standard of winter road maintenance for the major roads and, if so, what measures. Thomas Morell has also asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to ensure good snow clearance throughout the country. I choose to answer the questions in a context. I have answered a written question about the winter road maintenance by Thomas Morell as late as 7 December 2021. In the answer, I describe how winter road maintenance is carried out and that the Government has ensured that the authority responsible for winter road maintenance has the resources to carry out its mission. I am therefore not repeating this very thing here today. However, I can note that the Swedish Transport Administration has sufficient financial resources, developed requirements for the standards of winter road maintenance and procedures and methods for monitoring the work of entrepreneurs so that it is carried out correctly. This creates the conditions for a working winter road maintenance. As Minister of Infrastructure, one of my important tasks is to create good conditions for our expert authorities to be able to carry out the social missions they have. It is then up to the authorities to plan and implement the activities. It is the Trafikverket's responsibility to have a dialogue with the relevant actors to ensure that the right efforts are made at the right time but also to work long-term to develop the business together with the industry.
i-HbPcH9F2PfVFwBTzWoZG3C	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. We have asked both written questions and interpellations about the winter road before. We can see that winter road maintenance in the country has serious shortcomings. The Government says that there are enough financial resources to manage well-functioning winter road maintenance. If this is the case, there must be problems with how to carry out this winter road maintenance. First of all, I would like to say that it is not in those who are out on the road, that is, the goers, that the problem lies. Rather, it is about the structure of the system and the fact that the Finnish Transport Administration is too attached to what the meteorologists in the ditch are saying, i.e. the cameras that are looking out over the road to see if it is slippery or not. These electronic meteorologists have a certain ability to sleep over. They wake up very late. Once they alert it because it's slippery, it's been slippery for hours. We have discussed this before. It is now time to make a move. The Government must ensure that the Swedish Transport Administration reviews its procedures for how to manage winter road maintenance. This winter began dramatically when some sixty trucks became standing on the E4 up at Sundsvall. There were also two serious accidents involving buses and lorries. One, I want to remember, was out on Värmdö here in Stockholm, another up in Sundsvall. Fortunately, these accidents went well. True, people were injured, but no one died. That is the problem. I was this morning, faced with this debate, inside and looked at the Facebook page The road is our workplace. There you can follow the professional drivers on the road and see how they experience the winter road maintenance. It can be said that the government and the Finnish Transport Administration are living in a parallel reality in relation to those who are actually on the road. A driver wrote this morning that the E4 between Kolmården and Hölö-Mörkö yesterday was so slippery that it was pure shine, clean skating track, even though it was plus degrees and stops. There were many accidents outside Nyköping. Now we are talking about a European road, European road 4, one of the important arteries we have in the country, which therefore does not meet a reasonable standard of safety. That it can be difficult to maintain a good standard just when a winter weather is very intense and lying on I have full understanding of. It's not that simple. But when it has been several hours, it is plus degrees and you still have not managed to make the road navigable in an acceptable way, there is something else that falls, and it is this fabulous belief in electronic equipment that stands along the road and that reacts far too slowly. Here it must be another system of things. In the old days, I'm so old that I've experienced it, there were roadmasters who went out to see what the roads looked like in their area. They then put in place measures to ensure a good standard. Those on the road also knew that just in this bend or in this depression it freezes a little harder, and so they increased the give. You can't do that today. Now there's an official looking at a computer screen and saying: You can't hang up more than this. This is despite the fact that the operator out there knows that more action is needed to cope with the slip.
i-NiVcUfFTHWEG1Yi9U96yem	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Morell, for the commitment to our roads and the fight against slips! I think it is important that we constantly review and see how Trafikverket controls and handles the issues of winter road maintenance, and also look at the entrepreneurs who perform it. It is important to say, for those who follow this debate, that the Finnish Transport Administration does not have its own fleet. Everything is laid out on haulage companies and others who handle winter road maintenance. Thomas Morell describes a time when roadmasters and others went out and looked at the roads – the roads they had the time and opportunity to look at – with good local knowledge and knowledge, felt and had it as a starting point for the anti-slip. For decades now we have seen a shift to a system that is much more sophisticated and digitised but on the other hand also covers all Sweden's roads to a greater extent than before. It is clear that this is a challenge, but that is also why I have been very careful that the Swedish Transport Administration should not see a lack of resources when it comes to anti-slips. This is important from the point of view of road safety. We can also note that there has actually been a positive development since the time that Thomas Morell describes as idyllic. In the happy '70s, we had maybe 1,300 deaths a year in traffic. Today we're down about 200. We have fewer accidents, safer vehicles and, to a large extent, more efficient road safety systems. Of course, however, there is always the opportunity to do things better. I like the idea that the Swedish Transport Administration talks not only to road hauliers but also to professional drivers and others to get views and thoughts on how to do better anti-slip. An interesting development work is currently under way, where instead of having 200 – 300 measurement points with conventional measurements, one checks how the snow depth, slip or road temperature is collected about 200 million measurement points. This is a collaboration with Volvo Cars, among others, where Volvo's own cars deliver how the slip is and where there may be a risk of slipping to a comprehensive database. In this way you can get a picture more quickly and know when to make efforts. That work is interesting. It offers unimagined opportunities to have an even more effective anti-slip and to be able to limit the damage. For those who have not followed the debate, and I know that Thomas Morell knows about it, it may be good to know that there are fairly clearly defined criteria for when efforts are to be made. Standard Class 1 is 2,200 kilometres, for example. That's 14% of traffic. When a centimetre of snow has fallen, the plow car has two hours to plow the distance. After it has s tilted snow, the road should be snow- and ice-free within two hours. It is usually anti-slip with salt. Standard Class 4, which is 23 600 kilometres, is also 14 percent of traffic. When there is two centimetres of snow, the plowcar normally has five hours to plow the distance. Five hours after the end of the snowfall there must be no more than two centimetres of snow on the road. These are ways of trying to structure so that on roads with a lot of traffic it is quick action. On roads with less traffic it may take a little longer. It is one way of making the best use of resources. Nevertheless, I am optimistic about technological developments. I realise that there were advantages to the professional knowledge that existed before. But I think it is best to combine solid experience with now using new technology, digital measuring points and the vehicle's own signals to get even more effective anti-slip. Then it will be safer on our roads.
i-MMjj249KznbFFs3ruzfpyn	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. What we are discussing now is a world view that the government and the Finnish Transport Agency describe. But we also have a world view out there where those who use our road system have a completely different view. These are people who drive 8,000 to 10,000 miles a year and perhaps have 20 to 30 years of professional experience behind them. Many of them are sitting at this very moment watching this debate. To say that their impression of road maintenance is not right is directly underestimating their knowledge. Trafikverket is going down. Their press manager doesn't even want to feel the criticism that's out there. There have been several speeches in which both professional drivers and others have pointed out that it is not working. You hang it all up on the electronic meteorologist standing in the ditch. It's usually way too late. It may be that you're interested in technology. But it does little to help when the person who then absorbs the information at a computer screen does not understand to read out what is actually happening. As the Government certainly understands, I get many comments from professional drivers out there who see what it's like, and I also get that from those who do the job. It is not those who sit in the plowcar that is the problem, but the problem is the control from the Swedish Transport Administration and how you have put it up. That's where the problem is. The fact that they then have financial resources to do this is fine. That's great. But it is quite obvious that they do not sort it out in practical terms to keep a good standard. This is how one of them writes plowing, and it was the night before Christmas Eve: About 6 p.m., I called on call on call for ploughing when I wanted to go out and start for the snowfall that would start at night until December 24. I was worried about getting ice bottoms because of the falling temperature that was coming in the morning. In response to my call, I found that the contraceptive salts were out on their round, and we discussed how to proceed. We agreed that we would go out at midnight so that I could drive a lap before the temperature fell to about minus nine degrees. But they didn't call out until 3:00 a.m., three hours later. Then I just had time to drive a third of my lap. As a result, everything froze to ice along the way. We didn't have a chance to solve good tradable roads before Christmas. That's how it goes out there. It's the reality that the doers struggle with every day. There is something that does not work at Trafikverket. Here the government must point with all its hands and say: we must get a better order on winter road maintenance. We're talking about people out there who are at risk of dying. Professional drivers who have the road as their place of work must have reasonable conditions. The road shall have a friction that is acceptable so that it can really be steered and braked. They shouldn't describe their workplace – because it's a workplace – like a skating track. It does not help to put on completely new winter tires, for it does not bite on such a surface. You could say: Fine, let's put the cars. How would it work for Sweden's industry?
i-B8JvmJ57PPw5u7QBtg418t	Madam President, I would like In fact, it is sometimes the case that you set the cars. That's what responsible hauliers do. On my last visit to a haulage company in southern Sweden, I just asked about this. He said, "That's the way it is. I do not want to endanger the lives and health of our important professional drivers to drive out when it's black. Sometimes it is a road team with which even the most sophisticated anti-slips has great challenges. This is the case when we live in a northern country like Sweden. We sometimes get to listen to the Swedish Transport Administration's signals saying: Stay away from the roads right now! It is a concern I can feel when we talk about working conditions for professional drivers in the country. With increasingly slumped times, driving and rest rules and tough competition in the haulage industry, there is a risk that one is stressed to still drive to get there in time because the suppliers will have the goods. I have myself worked with freight deliveries at an industrial company at home in Småland. I remember how eager I was myself. The goods must be delivered. We have promised that it will come to Läreda in Hässleholm. And then we drove it away. It is important that we recognize that there are sometimes limitations and that life and health must come first. This approach has led to the development from the time that Thomas Morell refers to in the 70s. Then we had 1,300 dead in traffic. Today the number is down in under 200 according to the latest figures. It has been a successful job. It is combined with more resources for anti-slip and the use of modern technologies. But it is also about setting the right priorities. I am not saying that you should not take advantage of the solid experience that exists. One should listen not least to experience from professional drivers and hauliers. It is important that Trafikverket has a very good dialogue. But we should beware of a system in which the parliament or government begins to go into detail and talk about how the anti-slip should be. We provide resources and are clear about what requirements should be. There are clear requirements on which targets should be set for all different types of road routes. That's the mission. Even so, so that there should be no doubt as to how the relationship between the Finnish Transport Administration and the individual haulage companies is, that there are third-party controls. There a completely independent actor goes in and checks: What does it look like? Have the right balance been struck? That's a lot of money we're talking about. The last time it was about SEK 1.8 billion, or SEK 1,696 billion in 2020. It is a bit depending on how much snow, ice and slip it is. The important thing is that we have the best possible anti-slip measures. It should be well-functioning throughout the country and especially on the routes where there is a lot of traffic. This winter there have been several occasions with temperatures around 0 degrees and quite difficult to assess. We also have responsibility, as Thomas Morell describes, for all of us. I have been legislating that the heavy goods vehicles and lorries will now also have winter tyres. Such requirements did not exist in the past. When we pushed it out of the government's side, there were several who were opposed. They felt that we were now imposing financial burdens. It was to put professional drivers' health first but also the safety of all other road users. This means that there are also requirements for foreign trucks that come on Swedish roads. They're supposed to have winter tires to drive. I'm sure there's more to be done. It is a fantastic development work that the Swedish Transport Administration has. I assume that it does so together with the haulage industry and the companies and entrepreneurs that handle the anti-slip so that we get the very best anti-slip and as safe a situation as possible for both professional drivers and all of us.
i-XVHZuFUNgjZLEeT8jgEun2	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. Of course, the Riksdag and the Government can have views if winter road maintenance does not work. When a whole industry tells us how bad things are on the road, and when even those who do the work for the Swedish Transport Administration have views that the work does not have proper control, it would be strange if we did not have views on it. We're still talking about people's life and health out on the road. The fact that there were considerably more people killed in road accidents in the 1970s is not surprising; then we had just introduced belt requirements, and there was no airbag in the cars. The construction was far from on the same level as today. Today, there's a lot of work to do in order to die in a traffic accident as long as the speed is not over 70 kilometres at the moment of collision – provided that you have a belt on. These conditions did not exist in the 70's or into the 80's until about the middle of it. This does not mean that we should in any way think that we have now come so far that we do not have to do more. I think it is serious when we have a situation where a whole industry and those who do the work on the road say that winter road maintenance does not work. Then you have to act. You have to take the professional drivers who are out there and tell them how their everyday life is the most serious. You can't say as the Chief Press Officer of the Finnish Transport Administration: No, we don't experience that! No, but it experiences all those who use our road system. Listen to them! Take advantage of the knowledge that is out there! Let go of the blind belief in electronic equipment on the edge of the ditch, for it misleads more than it does good. You can develop it – fine. But now it is time to act.
i-DvK3quzmZX6Xmnoueukk3D	Madam President, I would like I think that we both, Thomas Morell, have the starting point that it should be as good as possible anti-slip. I think that is important, and I think it is important that we continue to work to promote road safety. We will be proud of the strong commitment that exists in road safety work in Sweden. That's why I think it's good now that the Swedish Transport Administration has projects together with Volvo. I know that Scania also has trucks that produce a lot of data that tells us how the situation is on the roads. This gives us great opportunities to find out in real time what the roads actually look like. These are completely different measurement possibilities than we have ever had before. I think you should be careful not to idyllicize what it was like before, when a roadmaster went out and felt on the road and made his judgment. It is a solid professional knowledge and experience that is also very important. But it is not entirely wrong to use new technology to measure the roads that a roadmaster may not have time to travel to. This is a little bit of what it is about: to use both new technology and proven experience as efficiently as possible to make a good anti-slip. I'm an optimist. I'm an optimist because there are actually fewer road deaths than in the past. It's a safer traffic situation. It is not only belt requirements, winter road requirements and mobile phone bans, but it is also safer vehicles now. This means that a great deal is in favour of our continuing positive development. The Finnish Transport Agency must have the resources necessary for good anti-slip operations, and they do. There can certainly be different views on to what extent and how much to use digital measuring stations. Nevertheless, I have great confidence in technology and believe that it is important for us to have an even safer traffic situation. But I assume, of course, that Trafikverket is constantly considering whether there are technical models or other methods to use for anti-slip. It's their responsibility.
i-JE9YUMqcX8nyZsceZEX7xv	Madam President, I would like Bengt Eliasson has asked me several questions about the rules for the right one to travel. I would like to start by pointing out that a minister of state should not comment on a court's assessment of the application of a law. A service of good quality is a municipal and regional responsibility. The Transport Services Act does not prevent a more generous application of permits from municipalities and regional public transport authorities. The municipality or regional public transport authority is responsible to the inhabitants for the provision of good quality transport services. However, I note with some concern the reports that have been received regarding the denial of the right to travel services for the visually impaired, and I am following very closely the issue of blind and visually impaired people's right to travel services. I do not rule out the possibility that further measures may be needed to strengthen disabled people's access to the transport system.
i-MA2SnxnM3gBDjAyxsmGqVg	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Infrastructure, for your answer. According to the Transport Services Act, authorisation is granted to transport services for persons who, due to disabilities, do not only have temporary difficulties in moving on their own or in travelling by public means of communication. It is precisely the words and the essence of the debate today that are very difficult. It's about a young man named Vilmer Bäckman, 21 years old and blind. Despite his serious difficulties – substantial difficulties – to travel on public transport, his region, Region Stockholm, has denied him permission to travel. This has been done despite the fact that Vilmer Bäckman's visual centre emphasises that in some cases it is associated with the danger of life for him to move around in the traffic environment. The Administrative Court claims that it is not excluded that he could learn all the routes he needs by heart. Now the case has gone all the way to the Supreme Administrative Court, which denies Vilmer Bäckman leave to appeal. The Supreme Administrative Court will therefore not take up the case. I fully agree with the Government's assessment that it is not up to us to review or comment on how courts judge and, in those cases, to review their assessment. But it is our responsibility as legislators to comply with the legislation and ensure that it is functional and applies to what the legislator, in this case the Riksdag, and the government as the performers have as their intention. This is what the interpellation is about. Vilmer's case has already had consequences. A number of municipalities have taken it to revenue in order to refuse applications or withdraw travel service permits. So the judgment has had unreasonable consequences. In the country there are thousands of visually impaired people who are already quite afraid that their travel services are in danger. So far, the Swedish Association of Visually Impaireds knows about a number of similar matters with the same outcome. I have been told that, unfortunately, there are now also people with other functional variations who have been questioned by the travel services officer on the basis of this judgment. The risk is therefore that new legal and decision-making practices will rapidly emerge that could seriously damage confidence in the system. The issue is also being dealt with in the Transport Committee at the moment, where good cooperation between parliamentary parties makes it possible to reach a decision that is beneficial in these parts and that a review of the legislation is being carried out. When I hear the Government's response, I can get the impression that this is the fault of municipalities and regions and that they can make whatever good decisions they want and always make better decisions than are made. But it is up to the legislator to comply with the legislation. That is why I am once again asking the Government: does the Government intend to take action from the current decision-making practice, which seems to be further stiffening?
i-Rn76DYJaVciUwa7Qw23x13	The honourable Member himself points this out, but I would nevertheless like to draw attention to the fact that the content of the judgments of the courts must not be criticised or debated in this House.
i-28UL9jeyoqdzgib2NRubRS	Madam President, I would like I thank the honourable Member, Bengt Eliasson, for bringing to light this very urgent interpellation about the travel service and the case law that is being developed. After all, people with disabilities, and especially people who have a visual impairment or who are blind, are completely dependent on the travel service in order for them to be able to participate in society in a way that the rest of us take for granted. It can be about getting to and from work or leisure activities, shopping, visiting friends – simply doing what we take for granted and enriching our lives. This is exactly how the Government describes it in its response – responsibility is divided between municipalities and regions. At the same time, it is our responsibility as legislators to review case law. If it is pushing in a direction that runs counter to the intention, which runs counter to the possibility for people with disabilities to be fully involved in society, I think it is our duty to review this. I note that the Minister says that he is deeply concerned about the situation, and I appreciate that. I see it as an opportunity to find a way forward. I can only imagine what it feels like if you are blind to hear that it is impossible to exclude that you can learn all the distances by heart. It is immensely difficult, I would say, to learn all the distances. It also means that you have to plan your life to the full so that you only have a certain number of routes to take. These are enormous limitations on people's lives. I also think that the learning process is becoming more difficult and more difficult, Madam President, because we see a case law in the area of escorts and other aspects that make it more restrictive there too. I find it difficult to see how you can learn the routes by heart if you may not get a hand in that process. From the Christian Democrats' side, we think it is extremely urgent to review the case law that is now evolving and which is hitting these people hard. On the basis of the answer that the Government does not rule out acting, I wonder whether the Government and the Government are willing to take the initiative for a review to see how the case law that has now developed affects people with disabilities and their right to travel. This is especially true of people with visual impairment or severe visual impairment or who are blind.
i-MJxcDEkoJBQT2eYv3GSPZD	Madam President, I would like Thanks to Bengt Eliasson and Pia Steensland! Bengt Eliasson's commitment to these issues is well known. I really appreciate it. These are issues that are also close to my heart. It is so incredibly important that these are rights that should benefit all citizens. I am upset when there is discrimination in what is fundamental rights to accessibility and to mobility. I think it's important to carry it with you. It is of course the na basic view that we agree on in Swedish society and that we should be proud of. Here Sweden is different from many other countries. When the first judges with the harsher application came, I also reacted. It's not a coincidence, if I'm going to be a bit party political, that they came in Stockholm and in Skåne. These are moderate and bourgeois regions where you have a much tougher application than in other parts of the country. There are parts of the country where a more generous application of the Transport Service Act is made. No one prohibits municipalities and regions from even opening up even greater opportunities. But in these two large regions a much tougher application has been chosen. These are regions where the Liberals and Christian Democrats are actually responsible. I hope that, in addition to the discussion we are now having at national level on the conditions for possibly tightening up national legislation, you will choose to take this discussion with the party colleagues who are in charge in the Skåne region and in the Stockholm region, where it has now been decided to make a very much tougher application. We should also remember that it is not the money we are talking about here. Municipalities and regions last year had a surplus of SEK 51 billion as a result of the very generous state subsidies that this government has given to municipalities and regions, not least during the pandemic, so it is not about big money if you want to make a more generous application. I am concerned that instead we are talking about a much more nurturing view of the rights of disabled people in society. I find that worrying. That is why this discussion is good. That is why I am clear to say that, should it prove necessary, I am considering the conditions for further efforts to strengthen disabled people's access to the transport system. That said, you should also give another picture. I think it is important for those who follow this debate. When we take note of the overall nature of the transport service, we should remember that when it comes to travel and sick travel, 92 per cent of passengers and passengers are satisfied with orders and travel, and 96 per cent of passengers arrive on time. It's important. It's not that bad. It is enough, however, that there are some, not least people with visual impairments who, in this case, may have bad treatment and do not have the basic right of access. One cannot yet say that there has been a case law based on an individual judgment; I think everyone here understands that. But it is clear that this is my starting point when I say from the government's side that I do not rule out that we may have to take further steps to clarify this. I find it regrettable when it is so obvious that it is in two regions that we go forward and have a stricter application. I think it is unfortunate, and I think we need to have a political discussion in municipalities and regions about what this stands for. These are also social citizens who have paid taxes and want their place in society and their rights. They should not have a worse time because they happen to live in Stockholm County or in the Skåne region, but we will make sure that they have a similar application. I appreciate the commitment and would like to signal clearly to you that we are, of course, prepared to further strengthen the right of disabled people. But I also think it is important that we now take this opportunity to pay some attention to the application that is taking place in Skåne and in the Stockholm region.
i-PuCgb1aDaBRwHUwirN28gr	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I can assure the Government that, in any case, I am conducting a live dialogue with both municipal and regional representatives from all over the country on these and other important issues for people's welfare, so the internal party debate is for us. We can agree, because I can see that the Government agrees that the development that is about to take place is in fact at odds with the government's and Parliament's disability policy objectives. It also goes against the UN Convention for People with Disabilities, which formulates what we are discussing now – the right to mobility, to move freely. This concerns Article 20 of the UN Convention. It describes that people with disabilities should be able to move freely and as independently as possible in the way and at the time they choose. They should have access to good and useful tools, assistance and personal service. Here the travel service is a piece of the puzzle, and you may have travel service that is functional. You can even have public transport that is good, and it is in many parts of the country – accessible and universally designed so that it is functional and good for very many, perhaps even the vast majority. But then there are the other pieces of the puzzle: that you should get to and from, that you should have the opportunity to have a handout, as my colleague Pia Steensland brought up, and so on. And that's where we break. If you remove the middle part, the possibility of special public transport, as it was previously called, or the transport service, the shortcomings are even greater for the individual. The reality described in the rejection decisions that are now beginning to come in from several places in the country, not only in the two large regions but also elsewhere, and which I have taken note of is very strange. The objective of public transport is not always a reality. This is where it breaks. A lot has happened in the form of universal design and accessibility work in public transport that is very good; I agree with that. But decision-makers in municipalities and regions clearly choose to ignore the whole, for example that people need to get to and from public transport. Getting to unknown places on changing roads again, Madam President, is about the significant difficulties of the legislative text. That is why I believe that it is up to us, as legislators and as a government, to follow this very closely and at this very moment, when this is happening, to be on our toes and to follow developments particularly closely in order to be prepared to intervene quickly and break the development that risks putting so many people more or less under house arrest.
i-GuyfdYqaD8k74NYLGpBdSw	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I very much appreciate that we can have a dialogue on these very important issues. Like my colleague from the Liberals, I can confirm that we are in constant contact with our party friends in regions and municipalities on these issues. Nevertheless, I would like to underline our responsibility. In the case of particularly vulnerable people with disabilities such as visual impairments, the use of public transport may be in danger of life. Then we must act and ensure that we are there to secure them. If it is the law that is lacking in these parts, I believe it is our duty to review it. A first step to get there is to take the initiative from the government to review the practice that has developed very quickly, I mean, Madam President, in several parts of the country. I choose to interpret the Government's response positively and will monitor the matter closely. Just as my colleague Bengt Eliasson said, we have good cooperation on these issues in the Transport Committee – a collaboration that is cross-party, so I am hopeful that we can perhaps get some support from there. I therefore take with me a hope from this debate and will follow this issue closely. It is my hope that people who are visually impaired will feel safe, especially when they are entitled to travel services, so that they can be fully involved in society just so that everyone else can.
i-2o7zaNjCAL8mnxsDPSDoET	Madam President, I would like As I said, it is incredibly important that there are reactions. I think Bengt Eliasson said that the development is about to happen, and I think that's where the shoe squeezes. We can actually stop this. It is not a natural law that we should have a tougher application in municipalities and regions, which in addition had a surplus of SEK 51 billion the previous year. Mainly, the first discussion must end up with those responsible for travel and, for that matter, for medical travel. They are municipalities and regions. If you do not take that responsibility, I do not rule out that we in the state – the parliament and the government – must act and further tighten up the legislation. But sometimes I think it would be incredibly much more worthwhile if the regions and municipalities, where they are responsible for the transport service, had a proper discussion and held those responsible to account. This applies to the Stockholm region, where the Liberals, the Christian Democrats and the Moderates still rule together with the Center Party and some party. One might ask: Is it the wish of politicians in the region for the visually impaired to be denied rights? Do you have to do the strictest application in every detail? This is what we have seen in recent years: a tightening up of the application that I find very difficult to understand. What is fundamental should be our common position, which we have had in Sweden for a long time, which is about accessibility for all. I think it would be a shame – I should not say a defeat – if we need to go so far as to have to tighten up the legislation in all areas where moderate-led regions are testing the regulatory framework in detail. Instead, it should come to popular opinion in order to ensure fundamental rights. But, as I said, for me and the government, these are incredibly important issues. This is also why I have received comments from the Swedish Association of Visually Injured Persons and other actors, who are about to meet this. I certainly do not rule out additional measures that will allow us to strengthen the access of visually impaired or disabled people to the transport system even at national level. But I also think that we, as national politicians here, have a responsibility to ensure that the regions in which the regulations have been challenged are given political responsibility. Why is this happening? Has this been done on the basis of political signals, or is it some other kind of application that is stricter? Basically, this is not just about an individual case or case or whether a person is entitled to a transport service or not. Basically, it is about our view of humanity and about the possibility of accessibility throughout society. There Sweden has made a journey that is fantastic. I myself investigated the funkis issues once, in the 1990s, and can only see how far we have come in society since then and be incredibly proud of the sense of freedom it means for people with disabilities to now actually have access in terms of working life, housing and society. But there is a long journey to be made, and we must be careful to react when there is a change in application. That is why I am also pleased with the debate and hope that it will as such influence the discussion in municipalities and regions, where it is responsible for the transport service. But again – it would prove necessary, I do not rule out any further action at all.
i-5kp2izEJ6t4pykQ3atA492	Madam President, I would like Thank you again for your answer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. It is not for nothing, just as the Government says: It is distressing to see such a wide range of government authorities, but also municipalities and regions, regardless of colour – this, I mean, has nothing at all about party colors of government in municipalities and regions to do – devote quite a lot of time and effort to appeal decisions and go against their residents in various forms of decision-making. Not least, this severely affects disabled people throughout the country. This is something that very much requires a special debate and does not belong directly to it, but it affects it. As the Government says, Vilmer's case is not just an individual case, but is about a much larger, system-affected problem that is about to emerge. The decision-making responsibility of the municipalities does not mean that we escape responsibility as legislators. It is we who must ensure that we have workable legislation. It is not decision-making municipalities and regions that have ensured that Vilmer is not granted his permission, but it is a judgment, as I said. It is directly affected by legislation. I mean, it's not possible to blame the municipalities. You have to look at the legislation. Madam President, I would like To have one's life limited by decisions to reduce or fear that one's own life is a stressful situation for many people who are wholly or partly dependent on support from society. Then we as legislators must intervene.
i-F2fHUsyNHJqczUDTpfWfej	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Bengt Eliasson, for a good interpellation debate! I just want to object to the last thing Bengt Eliasson said. In very much we share the view here, I feel that. But the reason why it becomes a decision in court is that those who are responsible for the activities – municipalities and regions – choose to act in a way that means that the matter has to be tried in court. As I said in my interpellation response, there is nothing to prevent the application of the current regulatory framework more generously. It is a rather new phenomenon that the regulatory framework has begun to be tested more restrictively than in the past. So responsibility rests with municipalities and regions, because they are responsible for the transport service. After all, it was the Riksdag that once took a position on this and stated that municipalities and regions should be responsible, i.e. that we do not have state transport service. I do not think anyone would want such a development. Should it turn out that municipalities and regions are unable to cope with this responsibility, we must, of course, be prepared to go forward with even more detailed legislation. But it shouldn't be necessary. With the responsibility of municipalities and regions and with the resources at their disposal, the question should be asked: why are there now stricter application and testing? What political signals are there? Although we can wish, hope and believe that all parties are behind the view of the disabled that we have, we do not escape the fact that, especially in two bourgeois-led regions, there is a much tougher application when we try the rules. Then it is a question of political accountability. That responsibility is to be assumed. The responsibility is to be exercised in municipalities and regions, in the Stockholm region and in the Skåne region. If it turns out that politicians there do not take that responsibility, we should be prepared to act at national level. Of course, I am prepared to go forward with further measures.
i-2JJgZ6j3eEAZb61tdoHoXZ	Madam President, I would like Ulrik Bergman has asked me whether I will take any initiatives to ensure that, as it says here, county plans that have been well advanced in their implementation are not affected in the following planning period by deducting appropriations in the new planning period. Ulrik Bergman has also asked me whether I intend to act for an additional addition to the county plan so that road 70 Särnaheden – Idre can be broadened and made more safe during the planning period 2022–2033. There are many important and urgent measures in the transport infrastructure to be implemented around the country. Last spring, the government presented an infrastructure bill with the largest financial framework ever. The Parliament made decisions in accordance with the Government's proposal. In total, the framework is estimated to amount to SEK 881 billion during the upcoming planning period 2022 – 2033. When the Government commissioned Trafikverket and the national county planners to produce proposals for national plans and county plans, the Government assessed that the preliminary framework for the counties in 2022 – 2033 should amount to more than SEK 42 billion. This is an increase of 8% compared to the current planning period. The Government decides on the framework for the counties, and Trafikverket has the task of making adjustments in connection with the revision of the plans depending on the actual outcome of the paid-up funds over the past four years. The final distribution of frameworks between the national plan and the county plans will be determined by the government through decisions in the national plan this spring. The priority of measures on road 70 between Särnaheden and Idre is a matter for Region Dalarna. It is about the priorities that are being set in the county plan.
i-KBCnVnogRVEJwNhkXAKkEF	Madam President, I would like The background to the interpellation is the fact that the funds decided for the county plans are a thin streak in the total. The implementation of the county plans is based on regional-level priorities. Business and housing must work throughout the country, and then the state has a great responsibility to ensure that conditions become reasonably equal. Vehicle owners are heavily taxed through vehicle and fuel taxes. Some of this goes back to infrastructure investments, but far from everything. The competition for the funds is great, but what ultimately matters is to see the problem of the high-speed rail giant project, which was included in the government's infrastructure plan. It is a mastodon project that is estimated to cost several hundred billion dollars. Road 70 Särnaheden – Idre is a concrete example that is now at risk of not being implemented in the next planning period. In the area there is a lot of activity with increased housing construction, work commuting and tourism. Investments are made in the order of SEK 20 billion in the Idre area, which is expected to generate a double number of visitors and create 1,200 – 1,500 new jobs. In this context, it lacks a small sum of SEK 197,4 million, which is estimated to be the total cost. Road 70 is very narrow on the current section, and heavy-duty vehicles have difficulty meeting safely. On 16 December, a very serious incident occurred on Route 70. Eight high school students and two teachers from Älvdalens education centre were on their way back after a school day in Idre, when an accident occurred, as Dalarnas Tidningar reported. Anneli Gunnar, school manager at Älvdalens education center, explains in the article: It was full of glass fragments inside the bus. Thankfully, no one was seriously injured, but a student got a scratch in his cheek. Anneli Gunnar hopes that the event is a wake-up call for decision-makers. A parent of one of the young people who was involved in the accident says:"It is strange that the decision-makers do not take the situation seriously, with all the construction traffic and the increased flow of tourism. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like When we get alarm clocks served, it's time to wake up. My question is this: will the Government draw any conclusions from this and reconsider the previous allocation of appropriations for the county plans?
i-17nBDMoCApai7gfdPAJugy	Madam President, I would like As I finished my previous speech, the priorities within the county plan are – it covers over 1 billion – something that is done by Region Dalarna. The government does not go in and reprioritize the funds there. In the proposal, the government has now increased the funding by 8 percent, so that Region Dalarna receives more than 1 billion in funding. Then you have the opportunity to redistribute it if you wish. It is a regional responsibility where the state does not go in and point out. As far as total resources are concerned, we have never before spent so much money on roads and railways in this country. In total, it is close to 900 billion. The investment in road maintenance is 197 billion. It is a proper effort, far beyond the resources that existed at the time when we had a moderate-led government. I note that Mr Bergman gives a throw at the high-speed train and says that the money goes there. That's not true! I think it's important to stick to the truth here. There are 107 billion in national planes going to the sections Gothenburg– Borås, Lund– Hässleholm and Ostlänken, which are the railways from Linköping and Norrköping up to Järna. These are sections that have strong anchoring with the Moderates in West Sweden, Skåne and Östergötland. In that case, I must ask Ulrik Bergman if he thinks we should say no to the investment in rail between Gothenburg and Borås and between Lund and Hässleholm or for that matter Ostlännen. We are making room for the important efforts to strengthen these regions and improve rail traffic, because it is on the tracks. At the same time, we are creating a space to spend more money than ever before on roads. We will then increase the county plan appropriations by 8 percent. The Government and I, as Minister of Infrastructure, have a challenge in prioritising all the wishes that exist throughout the country, from Malmbanan in the north to the South-East Link at home in Småland and Blekinge. Of course, it is also a tough task – I have respect for it – for the politicians in Dalarna to prioritise between all the wishes that exist. I wish we had had governments in the past that would have given more money to the roads so that the deficiencies in Dalarna would not have been so great. However, during the time we have had Social Democratic-led governments, we have greatly increased the funding for the roads, not least the rural roads. In addition to county planning funds, we are sending special state funds to what is called BK4. We increase the carrying capacity and torches on the roads in the countryside so that the forest industry's heavy transport can arrive. Then the question arises as to whether we do not need even more money. And there is a proposal for a road wear charge, which the Moderates unfortunately reject. On the current road a lot of heavy goods vehicles are transported by foreign hauliers. These are Romanian, Lithuanian and Polish lorries operating in so-called cabotage or, for that matter, international traffic. We Social Democrats have previously felt that we could have a road wear charge so that they too could be involved in paying. Because Sweden is the only country in Europe, I believe, where it does not require foreign lorries to pay for their toil on its roads. The reason for this is that the Moderates, the Center Party, the Christian Democrats, the Liberals and the Swedish Democrats have said no to road wear and tear. Why, Ulrik Bergman? Wouldn't it be a point that the foreign trucks that are working on road 70 also have to be involved in paying for it, so that it is not just Swedish hauliers or the residents in Dalarna who are involved in paying for the standard on the roads?
i-F864PuWxXbYoMkDsc2BDpB	Madam President, I would like Thank you for that answer, Minister of Infrastructure. In Trafikverket's proposal for a national plan, page 12, it becomes clear to everyone that the high-speed railway project risks becoming a cuckoo who eats up a lot of projects that are deemed to be socially profitable. The cost development of high-speed trains over the next two decades is greatly increasing in this planning. The estimated cost of the new baselines according to the current system design is 325 plus minus 55 billion. So it is up to SEK 400 billion. It is a staggering sum in this context. At the same time, the share of the county plans is almost unchanged. It's a thin streak, like I said. Sure, you can argue for high-speed rail. The question is whether or not to lift this out and finance it in special order. Having said that, this is very regrettable. It is a high-speed project that will facilitate travel for residents in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö, where there are actually already quite good connections with trains and flights. This project may be completed after 2040. Those who have to pay the bill are the rest of Sweden, who see the necessary projects delayed and existing infrastructure become worse and worse. The Finnish Transport Agency notes in its plan that the state of the state road network has gradually deteriorated over a long period of time, and with given levels of funding, the rate of degradation will be higher than the rate of action. This means that, despite the increase in funding, the road system will deteriorate faster during the planning period than the Finnish Transport Administration can restore. ..................................................... It is very serious that our common capital is gradually being destroyed and deteriorating at the end of the planning period. Does the Government believe that this is a reasonable priority for our tax resources and a desirable development? In the present case, it is about the new county plans that have been developed. It is noted that Dalarna has had a very high degree of reprocessing during the current planning period 2018 – 2021, partly due to an increased cost situation. The increased processing of funds is then counted off from the next planning period, 2022 – 2033, which means that Dalarna's county plan in one stroke will decrease by 246 million in the first four years, which in turn means that there will be a significantly reduced framework, which means that the planning period will be baktung 2026 – 2033, because not all projects can be housed in that plan. Madam President, I would like Zerovision celebrates 25 years of the day. Building safer roads has been a priority, and we have seen fewer and fewer seriously injured and killed along our roads. That is very pleasing. Now that development is under threat. The county plans around the country have great wishes that can mean great improvements in the spirit of the zero vision – they are also socially profitable. Dalarna does not even receive the grants that the population size and share of GDP justify. Dalarna thus subsidises infrastructure in the major cities. Does the Government believe that Dalarna is not worth investing in?
i-Rm4tSvLfPAmjPkc3UtHB5B	Madam President, I would like I can assure Ulrik Bergman that there is probably no region, be it Dalarna, Småland, Norrbotten or Stockholm, which thinks they have received too much money. Everyone says that they are particularly disadvantaged because they have more roads or more traffic or a larger share of the bnp. The starting point, of course, is that we have made sure to provide more resources than ever before, so that everyone gets proper increases. That's the first thing. Then it will still be a tough priority work. As far as the zero vision and road safety are concerned, we should nevertheless note that this is really going in the right direction. In the '70s, we had maybe 1,300 deaths a year in traffic. You're down to 200. It's a fantastic development. This is because, in the previous national plan, which I decided in the previous government, we made sure that the state helped regions such as Dalarna or other parts of the country to finance central railings on the county roads. We saw that it was important. We used resources so that you could set up the center railings. Then you didn't have to drop speed. Instead, it was possible to increase speed and get safer traffic. In the same way, I think the comparison with how resources are distributed can limp a little, for Dalarna is also one of the counties where there are investments in BK4. There is a redistribution of national funds to counties such as Dalarna, Jämtland, Västerbotten and Västernorrland. It is money that we distribute nationally to counties and regions where we need to increase the carrying capacity and tom security of, for example, forest industry transport. So there is an important redistribution. But basically, of course, it is a matter of ensuring that resources are provided. Then I note that it is under social democratic governments that we are spending more resources than ever, not least on the roads. I note that Ulrik Bergman does not answer the question of road user charges. I find it a bit embarrassing that Sweden should be the only country where foreign trucks can drive and toil on the roads – heavy traffic – without paying a penny. When Swedish hauliers go to Germany or France, they pay. But in Sweden it is free. Only Swedish hauliers and residents in Sweden, in the countryside, pay for the roads because the Moderates, among other things, have decided that there should be no road wear charge. Madam President, I would like Finally, I should like to say something about high-speed trains and main rails, as Ulrik Bergman mentions that issue. I would like to say that it is an incorrect description when you say that this should only make things easier between Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. It is about train traffic in Lund, Hässleholm, Borås, Linköping, Jönköping, Norrköping, Nyköping and Värnamo. The list is a long one over the places that will benefit from the fact that we now have new main roads. But this also means that pressure is reduced on other parts of the rail network – the Southern Main Line and the Western Main Line. This means that we can actually get better functioning regional commuting traffic but also national rail traffic. There will be more space to put goods on rail and reduce the pressure on the roads. One concern we have is that there is quite a heavy pressure on the roads. I have mentioned in this House the example of road 40 between Gothenburg and Borås, where there is very heavy traffic. It is clear that everyone understands the need to build a railway that relieves the load between Gothenburg and Borås. The Moderates think so regionally, but nationally it is obvious that the Moderates do not think so. I find that unfortunate. Sweden needs to invest both in roads throughout the country, not least in Dalarna, and of course also on railways throughout the country.
i-3tLBLuBtjRxJGzPsEXn6mm	Madam President, I would like The Government can, of course, point out that the regions have a responsibility to set their own priorities, as is being done. But there is too little funding. Sweden has a larger population, traffic volumes are increasing and then it is not okay that we have so little resources at our disposal. Dalarna has a business that takes market share and is growing on the world market. The examples are many in companies that are involved and contribute to raising GDP and tax revenues to the state. Hitachi in Ludvika is one. It grows so creaks and contributes with technology in electricity transmission systems that the whole world is calling for. Large orders require new positions on in round throws 500 highly educated people. It also calls for important infrastructure investments, including on road 66. Does the Government think that we should fail these efforts by not changing up the infrastructure? Finally, I would like to point out the appeals that come from teachers and parents in northern Dalarna. We must act when we see that the infrastructure is not up to date. We must listen and see that this is an unsustainable development that must be broken. Therefore, break out the plans for high-speed trains, secure funding so that our infrastructure is not destroyed and allocate more funds to the county plans so that we can build safer roads! Do something now!
i-67cnzxhAEpNixAPTyZvTtP	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ulrik Bergman, for your commitment! I appreciate it. I note that the honourable Member said that there is too little resources. When we had a moderate government there was SEK 522 billion in national plan. Now it's almost 900 billion. The first national plan that I had the privilege of presenting to the country in 2018 included 100 billion more. Now there is another 200 billion more. We are investing more than ever in infrastructure. In their proposal for the infrastructure bill, however, the Moderates want to deduct SEK 30 billion from the development grant and reduce resources for new roads and railways. Here the Moderates have a homework to do. Then you have to realise that there are tough priorities in the Dalarna region as in all regions and throughout the country, because the wishes are very great as a result of years of underinvestment on the road side. That is why we are investing more than ever in not least road maintenance. If you want to add more resources, the issue of road tolls becomes a little special, and I note that Ulrik Bergman does not comment on that issue. I would like to say, however, that it is troubling when foreign trucks can drive on road 70 and toil on it without having to pay a single crown while those who live there or a Swedish racer who drives there will pay to finance this. Let us offer Bulgarian, Romanian, Polish and Lithuanian hauliers also to be able to pay for the infrastructure, just as Swedish hauliers are allowed to do in Germany and France when travelling in Europe. As I said, we increase the funding for the county plan by 8 per cent in the bill supported by the Riksdag. It is a real increase, but it will still mean tough priorities. Of course, Ulrik Bergman will have to discuss this at home with his county politicians.
i-HyH4c21MyAhP99TniWorqZ	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me how I intend to act on the Swedish Transport Administration's proposed infrastructure plan regarding how necessary maintenance of existing road and rail networks should be carried out and how investments in northern Sweden are financed. The government has systematically invested in maintenance of roads and railways both in the current infrastructure plan, in the infrastructure bill presented in April and in several budgets, including earmarking money for rural roads. This means that over SEK 30 billion per year is proposed to go to maintenance of roads and railways in the coming years. I note that the Swedish Transport Administration has never before had so much money for rail transport. The transport sector faces major challenges. Emissions of greenhouse gases from transport need to be reduced. The Government has worked actively for several years to promote the transfer of transport from road and air transport to rail and maritime transport. For example, the government has introduced the so-called eco-bonus for shipping and environmental compensation for the railways. The government is also working to increase transport efficiency. For example, the government has invested in increasing the load capacity of the road network, and about 3 000 km of the state road network is now open to transport with the highest load class BK4. The Government also works to promote electrification, sustainable renewable fuels and energy efficient vehicles and ships. Climate change must continue at a high pace, both in Sweden and globally. The changeover must take place on the basis of the conditions of the different modes of transport and in such a way that the whole country is given the opportunity to change.
i-JDR7qG2ouS3BQn7BQ9pXQN	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I sat and listened to the previous interpellation debate, which was about highway 70 in Dalarna. Highway 70 is not the only road that needs investment to cope with transport in the future. At the end of the answer to my interpellation, the Government says that it is important that the climate transition continues at an unabated pace. But the climate change cannot be carried out at the expense of us being able to live and operate throughout the country, can we? No one has questioned whether we should switch vehicles to be environmentally friendly, but we cannot allow the roads or, by all means, the railways to decay. The Government also says in its reply that there has never before been so much money for road and rail maintenance. It is clear, however, that the money is not enough, because the Finnish Transport Administration itself says that the status of both rail and road will be worse in 2033 than it is today. Many of the roads are barely navigable during certain periods of the year at present, and then it will be worse in 2033. We have developed our society. Ever since we invented the wheel, mobility has been important for humanity to develop what has led to our modern society. It has been a prerequisite for having industrial activities where we can move goods and goods so that people can also move. It's extremely important. At one time it was the railway that meant the great development of society. Where the railway was drawn, the cities developed. Now the infrastructure is much more complex than just a railway. Now we must have rail and a functioning road system, as well as shipping and air transport. All these different forms of infrastructure must work. Then it will be a little strange to see the infrastructure plan that the Swedish Transport Administration is presenting where it is deliberately doing so that we will be in a worse position in 2033 than we have today. Then it does not matter whether we are talking about rail or road; it will be just as bad anyway. At the same time, we hear the Government say that we need to develop the railways in order to reduce the environmental impact. It is exactly the opposite of what the Finnish Transport Administration itself says: You will not be able to maintain a good standard on the railways. Somewhere the money is eaten up, and it is, as was discussed before, the high-speed train which is the cuckoo in the nest that will eat up future investments and future maintenance in the infrastructure we already have. It is very important that both the railway and the road work together. Once upon a time, the Swedish hauliers were by far the largest customers of the railway. Today, instead, goods are transferred to illegal traffic on our roads. Here the Government says that road wear charge should be introduced. It would be much better if the Social Democrats depended on our proposal so that it would be the same type of system that Germany has with Mauten. Then every person who comes into the country will be involved in paying for the roads they drive. The Government and his party colleagues are welcome to join our motion.
i-A1SpMuiisztyYGTY9G4vUZ	Madam President, I would like I thank Thomas Morell for the presentation of the views of the Swedish democrats on infrastructure investments. I respect the fact that you can have different weightings of priorities. The Finnish Transport Agency is based on the parliamentary decision that exists when they develop their proposal for a national plan. There are 197 billion to maintain the infrastructure, and there has never been so much. In the last plan, we could spend 47% more on railway maintenance. Now both rail and road maintenance are increasing. Sometimes the more money we put forward, the more bets are made. But I also think it is important that both the Riksdag and the Government take the opportunity to see if the resources are being used properly. In terms of road maintenance, the costs have increased by 60 – 70%, according to the Swedish National Audit Office, and I am concerned about the increase in costs we see on the road maintenance side and on the railway maintenance side. This is why the Government has given a special commission to the Finnish Transport Administration to examine where the cost increase consists. These must not be challenges in procurement, a lack of competition or anything else that means that we do not get the right currency for the resources we invest in road maintenance. And we've never bet as much as we do now. Let me still ask Thomas Morell a question. He mentions sweeping high-speed trains, just as previous debaters in interpellation debates have done. What we are talking about in the national plan is SEK 107 billion, which mainly concerns Gothenburg– Borås, Lund– Hässleholm and Ostlänken. So there is a railway between Gothenburg and Borås, where the current railway runs at 40 kilometres per hour. The coast-to-coast stretch is really bad. Furthermore, the road between Gothenburg and Borås is very heavily burdened. The stretch Lund – Hässleholm is really needed to increase the capacity as it is crowded on the southern main railway. Furthermore, it is Ostlinken, i.e. railway between Norrköping, Linköping and Nyköping. Are the Swedish Democrats against these efforts? You don't think we should build? There is a strong regional consensus. The business community, the companies in Linköping, Norrköping and Borås, say that this is very important for the personnel supply, for commuting, and for transporting more goods. We get regular reports that it's tight on the tracks. When all regions want even more regional traffic, SJ wants to operate with Green Cargo and Hector Rail, and the freight companies say that they want to carry out more freight traffic, the Trafikverket's challenge is that it is crowded on the tracks because rail travel has increased dramatically in Sweden. But not much new railway has been built. When new railway was to be built in 2006 at Norrbotniabanan – everyone realizes in retrospect how incredibly important that investment had been then – it was a moderate-led government that actually stopped the construction of Norrbotniabanan. They did not want to invest so much in infrastructure. Let's do it. Now we are modernising Sweden. We are renovating and repairing, but we are also building new ones. We are building new railways, but we are also building new roads. We make sure to maintain in a way that should be as effective as possible and that provides resources to an extent that we have not experienced before. It is a challenge, and it is quite right that both the Riksdag and the Government have paid attention to the responsibility of ensuring that the resources allocated also go to improved road maintenance. I am working hard on this, and I know that the Swedish National Audit Office's report is also an important part of this.
i-AcUyCbLKdejE9hcebb9xW6	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer to the Government. In the previous interpellation debate, the Government listed a number of locations that would benefit from high-speed trains. I noticed that not one of those places is above Stockholm. It is above Stockholm, in the northern counties, that the large part of industrial production exists. Here we need to strengthen both road and rail so that industry can develop so that people can live, live and work in these areas. It is a bit funny when we talk about the section Borås – Gothenburg, for example. We are not at all against building a railway there, but what we are opposed to is building a high-speed railway that only allows high-speed trains. We want both regional and freight trains to be able to use the railway, otherwise the heavy traffic will still be on national road 40. The West Swedish Chamber of Commerce believes that it should lift the high-speed train out of the plan and have another funding. Otherwise, it will eat up the investments necessary for the existing infrastructure. I think the Government should have a discussion with the West Swedish Chamber of Commerce. Then maybe it'll be a more factual discussion. Let's take a look at the West Main Line. The biggest problems on the Western Main Line are on the route Alingsås – Gothenburg. The problems where the whole rail system reproduces. With another double track between Alingsås and Gothenburg, traffic throughout the rail system in southern Sweden would be improved. In addition, it would be possible to get from Stockholm to Gothenburg by direct train – an ordinary X2 – in two and a half hours. It does not cost the money it costs for high-speed trains by any means. This will not stop at the 107 billion which it intends to invest in high-speed trains. Then it'll only be small snippets of high-speed rail a little here and there. There is an idea to continue, and then we land somewhere at 400 billion or more. What worries me is what is in the plan drawn up by the Finnish Transport Administration. It shows that the risk of minor disruptions and temporary restrictions on this part of the road network will increase. The Finnish Transport Agency will ensure that the roads are not so bad that the accessibility of light traffic is affected. Now we are talking about passenger cars and less light trucks. But how can we cope with industrial production and agricultural production in these areas if heavy traffic is not allowed? The milk truck is by no means located and drives on the E4 back and forth, but the milk car goes on small roads out to the farms. It is the same with forest production that is taken out of the forest to industry. If Trafikverket cannot keep the road accessible for anything other than light vehicles, there will be serious problems with food supply and industrial activities out in the fine-mesh road network. I do not doubt for a moment that the E4 and the E20 will be kept roadworthy, but the problems arise on the county roads. This is where a large part of industrial activity is located. It is time to act on this issue as well.
i-3tooBKruazY3maSV5CgjWL	Madam President, I would like It gets a little silly when Thomas Morell says that there are no bets north of Stockholm. It is because we talk about the main tracks that go between Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö via Norrköping, Linköping, Lund, Hässleholm and so on. Thomas Morell does not mention Norrbotniabanan, Ostkustbanan, Malmbanan, Mittbanan and Ådalsbanan. Investments are being made on railways in northern Sweden to an extent that we have never experienced before. That is the point, namely that we spend more resources than ever on developing the infrastructure, not least also in northern Sweden. We can also add the Malmporten. It has come the go-ahead and has become the construction start for the deepening of the harbour in Luleå, which means that we are really well equipped with the investments made for all the investments that are now taking place in northern Sweden. This applies to the green industrial revolution when Northvolt, Hybrid, Green Steel, LKAB and others invest in future industrial production in northern Sweden. That is why I regret that the Norrbotnia Line was stopped by a moderate government in 2006. If you hadn't, the track would have been built by now. Imagine how important it would have been for the supply of personnel in northern Sweden and for freight transport. There would have been much less traffic on the E4 or on existing railway systems if there had been a Northbotnia track. That is how I think we need to think about it here too. The railway has the advantage of being capable. If we move goods to the rail system, and even passenger transport, we also reduce the pressure on our roads. It's an important part. Then I find it very difficult to understand the argument from Thomas Morell and the Swedish Democrats that one should be happy to build rail between Gothenburg and Borås but that the trains must not go too fast on it. I'm having a bit of a hard time seeing the point of that. What is important is that new railway is built, and if trains can then go fast on it, that is also good. The important thing is that it works and creates a working unloading of the current infrastructure and that this gives the opportunity for good passenger traffic between Gothenburg and Borås – preferably then past Landvetter. From the Swedish Democrats and many others there are sometimes ideas of lifting out of this out of the national plan, as if it meant that it somehow was for free in some magical way. It's not like that. Should we lift out of this 107 billion, the national plan would be reduced by 107 billion, because that money must of course be taken away from somewhere. The point is that we are making a national plan that covers nearly SEK 900 billion, so that we accommodate and finance commitments. That is what I think is the responsibility of all parties in the Swedish Parliament. If you do not want to, as the Swedish Democrats say, finance Gothenburg– Borås, Lund– Hässleholm or a railway between Norrköping, Linköping and Nyköping, then you must do what I still think the Moderates honestly and honestly did in the Riksdag, namely to tell you that you want to remove 30 billion SEK. The Christian Democrats are taking away SEK 50 billion. I have not seen any sum from the Swedish Democrats. It is better to report this and proudly stand up for not wanting the Ostlink to be built or saying no to Lund– Hässleholm or Gothenburg – Borås. I think that would be more honest than a little sweepingly saying that if you remove a high-speed train investment in general, there will be more money for roads! It's not like that. There is more money for roads and road maintenance than ever before, but there is also more money for new investments in both road infrastructure and rail infrastructure. This is because this government chooses to prioritise infrastructure, not least to cope with climate change and create climate-smart transport. It is about electrification of roads and an investment in rail and maritime transport. Eventually, we also hope for the electrification of aviation, but that is another issue and another debate.
i-D49z1FAyuGQhwVNVYSxgUz	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I never said that we should not build railway between Gothenburg and Borås, nor did I say that it was a problem if the trains go fast. What I said was that it is a problem if you build a railway that can only be operated by high-speed trains. It's kind of like building a highway where you just let Ferraris out and nothing else is allowed to go. It's just as crazy. Build a railway between Gothenburg and Borås, but make sure that it can be operated by the trains that need to go there – fast trains, regional trains or possibly freight trains! It still gets a little strange when you focus the debate on high-speed trains and drop everything else around the country. The Swedish Transport Agency itself writes that the less trafficked track will have a deteriorating technical condition with reduced robustness, increased risk of traffic impact and temporary speed reductions. So it is the question of rail that we are talking about. Those who live in areas that have the lower traffic routes may stand back and be involved in funding a project that will be exclusive to those who are in a hurry between Stockholm and Malmö or Stockholm and Gothenburg. Care must be taken to ensure that the whole of Sweden's infrastructure works. It's supposed to work no matter where I live and whether I'm on the road or rail. We have no more money than what we have in tax revenue, and that is why we must distribute it wisely and not build a prestige project that eats up every opportunity to have a well-functioning infrastructure around the country. It should also be clear that a large part of our industrial activities are carried out in rural areas. It's not just Volvo, ABB or the big dragons it's about, but we have lots of companies in the countryside. They must also be able to function.
i-TP5SsRKZGsDjrFzV6AKj2	Madam President, I would like I still find it sad that Thomas Morell is not sticking to the truth at this point. In fact, infrastructure investments are being made throughout the country, ranging from new main tracks to Norrbotniabanan and Sydostlinken at home in Småland and Blekinge – or Mittbanan or Ådalsbanan. The same is true of roads: we are ensuring that the road network is strengthened both in high-traffic areas of the country and in low-traffic areas. In the latest budget proposal, we also earmarked SEK 1 1⁄2 billion for rural roads, precisely to ensure that the smaller road network will have a good standard. The investment in BK4, where we increase the bearing capacity and the tar safety of heavy transport, does not go to the big cities at all. This initiative mainly goes to Dalarna and perhaps to Kronoberg, i.e. at my home in Småland. It goes to Jämtland, Västernorrland and Västerbotten – to the forest counties. Because that's where this kind of road is. That's where the jobs are and where the industry grows. That's why we're betting. The starting point, then, is that we are making investments throughout the country. Then I only have a short pass on the reindeer farming thing. I note that Thomas Morell wants us to mix traffic to a large extent – freight trains, regional trains and long-distance trains. Nevertheless, I think that many people who listen to this debate have at some point gone by train and heard the conductor say: are we going to slow down, because we have a slow-moving vehicle ahead of us? It may be a regional train or freight train that lies in front – and you yourself sit on an X2000 and perhaps want to arrive. This is one of the challenges when it is crowded on the tracks: then the freight trains, the regional trains and the long-distance trains must be combined, and it is crowded. Because everyone wants to go more. By increasing capacity – but perhaps also by making more of a purer and more space for passenger traffic on the main routes – we also provide more space for freight on the Southern Main Line. There will also be more room for regional traffic. That is the starting point. It is about increasing the capacity of the entire Swedish rail system, throughout the country.
i-RiTTctpMYtPUFqWURX1xfV	Madam President, I would like Maria Stockhaus has asked me how to incorporate the announcements made by the Riksdag regarding the financing of new icebreakers and the Swedish Maritime Administration's form of operation and funding. The renewal of the icebreaker fleet is a work that has been going on for a number of years. Both in 2016 and 2020, the Government has commissioned the Swedish Maritime Administration to provide mainly cost estimates for the renewal of the Swedish icebreaker fleet. Together with the Finnish Transport Administration, the Swedish Maritime Administration is carrying out design work for new icebreakers, which will be completed during the first quarter of this year. I look forward to the Swedish Maritime Administration's final report on this work, and the Council intends to only then return to how this investment will be financed. The acquisition of icebreakers is part of the Swedish Maritime Administration's investment plan for 2022 – 2024, which the Swedish Parliament has approved. In addition, the purpose of the development allocation for Category 22 has been extended in the budget to include investments in the icebreaker fleet. As regards the announcement to investigate the Swedish Maritime Administration's form of operations and financing, the government will soon come back with information on how this should be handled.
i-4BYAL2yw82ESiKdME5Ywzw	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. As many as 130 days a year there may be a need for ice mining from Gävle and north. Already today, a lot of cargo goes both out and into ships in northern Sweden, and the need for transport will increase with all the exciting industrial investments we see in northern Sweden. For example, Luleå Port already handles 8 – 9 million tons per year, and it is expected that only H2 Green Steel's establishment will increase the volume to 16 million tons per year. In ships, this represents an increase from between 600 and 700 vessels up to 1 000 per year. The icebreakers who are currently on duty have many years on their necks and should, according to the original calculation from when they were purchased, be end-of-life today, but thanks to renovations they have extended their life span. Now, however, the time is running out for the icebreakers we have in operation today. The icebreakers break down and need repair, there are no longer spare parts because the ships are so old. Should spare parts be needed, these must be specially manufactured, which takes time. Then the icebreakers are still. The issue of new icebreakers is not new, as the Minister for Infrastructure raised in his speech. On October 30, 2017, the Swedish Maritime Administration presented a preliminary study for the turnover of icebreakers; it had been realised at an early stage that this is absolutely necessary. It set a clear target for the first new icebreaker to be delivered by the end of 2020/ 21. That was a year ago. At present, there are no financing decisions, which create uncertainty and concern for transport buyers, shipping and companies. Madam President, I would like The investments we see in northern Sweden are fantastic and exciting from many aspects, but they are of course also challenging, not least for the infrastructure, as the amount of transport of both people and goods will increase up there. All modes of transport will be needed, and if companies are to have the courage to rely on shipping for important transport, they must be sure that ice mining works. When companies face large investments, a key factor is that logistics works. Today, transport buyers and industry have signalled on several occasions that they are concerned about how ice mining will be solved in the future. With the high climate targets we agree on in Sweden, investments in new and much more climate-friendly icebreakers are important when it comes to the fuels used by icebreakers. The new icebreakers will also break wider passageways, enabling larger ships. The response I received from the Government still did not provide any clear information on how to resolve the financing of new icebreakers. What is the government's response? Industry really needs an answer – or rather, a response would have been needed a long time ago in order to be confident about shipping in northern Sweden.
i-DgtJ1qngEGjWUhcsFcRntM	Madam President, I would like As far as business confidence is concerned, I can say that it is very good. It would not have invested nearly 1 000 billion in northern Sweden if there had been a great deal of concern on this issue. The fact is that investment is now being made to an extent that we have not seen in the past because the government has been pursuing a new industrialisation strategy. This is far from the time when we had a moderate prime minister who said: In Sweden, the industry sector is basically gone. I remember how angry I was that day and how frustrated I was when a moderate-led government ignored industrial production in Sweden and thousands of unemployed in the automotive industry. Since then, after the change of government in 2014, we have systematically invested in developing Sweden's industrial capacity. Now we have the green industrial revolution in place, with over 1 000 billion in investments in northern Sweden and with investments also in the rest of Sweden. This is good; it creates jobs, hope and faith in the future. Then the infrastructure conditions are of course very important. For example, it is norrbotniabanan, which a moderate government once removed but which we are now building because it is important. I assume that in national planes we need to look at how we can develop Malmbanan and other infrastructure. We have recently given the go-ahead for the construction start for Malmporten in Luleå port, which now, in collaboration with Luleå municipality and LKAB, becomes an in-depth port with better capacity thanks to this government's choice to prioritise such an investment alongside the investments in Gothenburg harbour. Of course, there is still the issue of icebreaker capacity, where we have been giving clear answers for a long time: we are going to renew the icebreaker fleet. We are clear in the assignment to the Swedish Maritime Administration, and we are now waiting for their final report. This is also a collaboration with Finland. When the design phase is completed, we will see which cost calculations will form the basis for the financing model. At this point, some have spoken out loud about how the financing model should be – the money should be taken from a national plan or by borrowing it. I think the important thing is the clear message given by the government: we should renew the icebreaker fleet. There is no doubt about that. I myself have travelled with one of the older icebreakers, and although it is fascinating to go and see how the ice is broken, you realize that these are ships that are getting properly dated. That is also why we now need to renew the icebreaker fleet. Thankfully, there is a well-functioning cooperation with Finland and Estonia, so so far – as we know – there have been no shortage situations. But of course everyone realizes that we need to renew the icebreaker fleet. An important part is to keep cost control and to ensure that it is the right quality and the right basis for the orders to be made. There are a number of different stakeholders here who want to participate and contribute. I can assure Maria Stockhaus that this is a work that is in full swing. We are now waiting for the final basis from the Swedish Maritime Administration to be able to move on. Of course, the icebreaker fleet should be able to renew.
i-VMXDsy5ZJp2WmfiZXAPvZa	Madam President, I would like The infrastructure minister's possible clarity does not seem to have been achieved, for there have been a number of letters from many worried transport buyers and larger companies about how ice mining should be solved. There is no point in investing a lot of money in Luleå harbour if you will not be able to drive boats there because the icebreaking does not work. There is, as I said, an announcement, and there is a majority in Parliament who think it is reasonable for icebreakers to be financed within the national plan. It would have been a clear message if this had been submitted when the Finnish Transport Administration presented its proposal. After all, the government has not yet come up with its final proposal, so the hope is not that it will be able to resolve the financing in this way. Madam President, I would like We agree that our transport system needs to be used more efficiently. There is much to do, for example, to build such that it is possible to drive longer trains by rail and longer and heavier trucks on our roads. Maritime transport is an underused mode of transport. We are all in a position to use all the water that surrounds us much better, not least because it could relieve road and rail transport. This is a climate-smart and efficient way to transport goods. Here in Parliament it is clear that a majority of parties see the potential of shipping, but one might wonder what it looks like on the other side of the water in Rosenbad. Sweden has high fairway fees and high pilotage costs, and despite capital injections, the Swedish Maritime Administration announces increases in fairway fees for next year. There are clear signals from both the industry and the Swedish Maritime Administration themselves that the situation is not sustainable, especially if you want to transfer transport to shipping. The Swedish Maritime Administration is currently fully financed by fees. As a result, we currently have high charges that risk deterring the shift of freight from land to sea and sea. Madam President, I would like A majority in this House has stated that the organisation and funding of the Swedish Maritime Administration needs to be reviewed. We see that changes are needed in this area if shipping is to achieve its full potential. I can honestly say that the government's handling of announcements, that is to say majority decisions in this House, in the area of infrastructure does not impress. This announcement on the funding of the Swedish Maritime Administration was adopted in this House about two years ago. Madam President, I would like To be honest, I feel that the Social Democrats in particular ignore the fact that this government, like the previous one, does not have a majority here in Parliament. Many have received a response that the announcements about the Swedish Maritime Administration are being prepared at the Government Office, even though the announcement came almost two years ago. There has not even been so much as a directive for an investigation. Sweden could have a bright future as a maritime nation and make even better use of the potential of all the water already in place. However, this seems to require another government, which provides information and tackles the problems raised by the industry and transport buyers. Now the Minister for Infrastructure said in his reply that he is asking to return in the near future with a statement about the Swedish Maritime Administration. That is always something compared to just saying that the matter is being prepared. I and many others are waiting for a reply, and I therefore wonder when the Minister for Infrastructure intends to return. What's the short term?
i-CspZJSpEdQR5iqGbCDu6kG	Madam President, I would like I thank Maria Stockhaus for her commitment and for the constant good discussions and debates. I am convinced that Maria Stockhaus and I agree on the importance and the need to renew the icebreaker fleet. This is important. It's close time. There is, of course, a pandemic, but we are working as intensively as we can in the Government Office with a variety of efforts, ranging from providing more resources than ever to the infrastructure to looking at the different conditions for renewing the icebreaker fleet. Of course, we also listen to the various announcements that exist. I have extensive experience of the Riksdag and am very keen to maintain a good relationship with the Riksdag and follow the announcements that exist. For me, this is very important. On the other hand, let me say that I was surprised when representatives in Parliament said so clearly that funding should take place on a national level. I am not ruling it out, but one must be aware that this means that the acquisition of new vehicles should take place instead of an investment in roads, ports or railways. Nevertheless, it is a position. I do not rule out the possibility of this being a fact, but funding in the national plan will mean that, as a consequence, there will be less room for other things. Sometimes there is the possibility of acquiring new vehicles with other financing models, for example. The most important thing – and that is the government's starting point – is that we need to ensure that we get a proper basis from the Swedish Maritime Administration that talks about how big the icebreakers should be, how much steel it takes and how the drive should take place, not least in view of the reduced climate impact. These are ships that are supposed to be around for a very long time, and it is quite a tough challenge to ensure that such strong engines can be driven on sustainable fuels at the same time. Of course, it is also about what functional requirements should be given climate change. I want to be clear. Some believe that climate change reduces the need for icebreakers. I don't think that's the case. The knowledge I have gained shows that it is rather the case that the changes we see in the climate at least in the next 10 – 15 – 20 years may pose greater challenges for ice mining, when the ice both melts and freezes a bit tougher than before. This suggests the importance of having a good icebreaker capacity. This goes without saying. The government would not spend as much resources as we do now, not least at the deepening of Luleå harbour and Malmporten, if it were not that we want to increase the use of shipping. That is why we have an eco-bonus that has also been broadened. That is why we have made great efforts for shipping. It is needed from a climate point of view. It is a very climate-smart and efficient mode of transport. It is also the case that there is space on the lake. In a situation when it is crowded on the tracks and full on the roads, shipping is a fantastic resource. I am therefore pleased with the strong commitment that has been in place for shipping for a number of years. From the government we have made a proper collection of forces with the Freight Transport Council, the invitation to meet all Swedish ports and the national coordinator for shipping. We have multiplied research efforts on shipping and can see how both Stena and Wallenius are now investing more than ever in creating sustainable shipping. At the COP 26 meeting in Glasgow just recently, we were able to adopt the Clydebank declaration, which means green corridors in Europe for shipping. Let us continue that commitment! I have every respect and understanding that it is sometimes frustrating to be in opposition and not in government. But I am also keen to have both a good dialogue and to be clear about the renewal of the icebreaker fleet. We await the documentation that the Swedish Maritime Administration is working on. Then the government will give a message.
i-4zuLCLxCHoXV3GtmC5smZ6	Madam President, I would like I find it interesting that the Minister for Infrastructure assures us that he is keen for a dialogue with Parliament and the Transport Committee. I might think it's pretty weird about that. It is my experience from my more than two years in the Transport Committee. I do not feel that we have had any discussions at the level referred to by the Minister for Infrastructure. What we share is a commitment to shipping. I guess that's a good starting point, because the potential is great. We have a lot of water, and we could make better use of it and give clearer information to shipping if we felt that there was a plan for financing the icebreakers. I believe that precisely the need for a clear statement was the reason why we put it here and were given an announcement that it would be financed through national plans. The spring of 2021 of the Swedish Trade and Industry Transport Council discussed icebreakers. At the time the Environmental Party representative was honest that the Environmental Party in the negotiations on the new infrastructure bill and the plan was clear that the party wanted the icebreakers to be financed within the framework of the infrastructure plan but that it was something that the Social Democrats were not interested in. A majority here in Parliament has been clear that we believe that the new icebreakers should be financed in the national plan. Unfortunately, the government ignored this when giving the Finnish Transport Administration directives to the new plan. I must admit that it is not often I agree with the Green Party, but in this particular case I would have liked the Minister for Infrastructure to have chosen to listen to them. At the same time, the Minister for Infrastructure was asked about this with the icebreakers in the plane. Then he said that the parliament only takes a position on the framework and that it is the government that decides the content. It's true. Now the government has the chance to show that you listen to the Riksdag and therefore put the funding of icebreakers into the national plan when you come up with your proposal.
i-Ufk7yhGs2L3j7at7tG1tSv	Madam President, I would like I note that the Moderates want to lift out of the main course but lift in the icebreakers. That is an interesting position. Again, the important thing is that we have a renewal of the icebreaker fleet – let us then come back to what is an appropriate financing model when we have the basis! With all due respect for what Mr Stockhaus says, I believe that deep inside the Business Transport Council, the Moderates and many others it is not the financing model that is the most important but the fact that we have a good basis and that we are renewing the icebreaker fleet. That's what's important. I myself have been looking at what I think is the most modern icebreaker in the world, the Finnish Polaris. It's a great icebreaker, I say. I hope we will see something similar built soon, so that we can renew the Swedish icebreaker fleet. Nevertheless, we should respect the fact that it is a multibillion-dollar commitment. A new icebreaker may cost 11⁄2, 2 or more billions depending on our requirements and specifications, and we will renew a number of icebreakers. Then you have to be very careful. Not only can a position be lost, but we need to know all the cost estimates. It's important. I take this as an offer from Maria Stockhaus and the Moderates for an even closer collaboration on a number of issues. I have no worries about having a closer exchange on important infrastructure issues. Arlanda – Bromma is something that is in the near future, but there are of course also a number of other questions. Let's find an opportunity and see you! I think it is important in long-term issues for Sweden. Whether we are talking about defence, pensions, energy or, for that matter, infrastructure, it would have been good to have a broader consultation in Sweden. Unfortunately, we've had a polarized time. My view after all my years in politics is that we need rather less conflict and more collection, not least in terms of infrastructure.
