i-PxVzFX7eXAN8j3xesVs6Eb	Madam President, I would like David Josefsson has asked me what measures I intend to take to improve the capacity of the Coast Guard to respond more quickly with the intended resources in situations like the one at Vinga on 4 December. The environmental rescue effort against the fire on board the ship Almirante Storni is one of the largest in Swedish waters in modern times. The comprehensive operation was led by the Coast Guard and was carried out together with national and international rescue actors in order to avoid environmental damage. The Coast Guard had several units in place, and two of them were the large rescue ships Poseidon and Triton. When the incident occurred, Triton was on standby and departed directly for the scene of the accident. Poseidon was not on alert but was manned in a relatively short time. The Coast Guard was a cornerstone of the operation, and through collaboration the collective resources of society were used effectively. Overall, the comprehensive effort was successfully implemented. The Coast Guard is a key operator at sea and is tasked with performing environmental rescue services and other maritime rescue services as well as maritime surveillance. For its mission, the Coast Guard has a large number of ships stationed at around twenty coastal stations along the Swedish coast and in Lake Vänern and Lake Mälaren as well as aircraft stationed at an air-coast station in Nyköping. The Authority regularly allocates and prioritises its resources to manage ongoing operations while maintaining effective national preparedness. Since 2018, the Government has contributed approximately SEK 140 million to the Swedish Coast Guard in order to maintain and strengthen the agency's capabilities. The Coast Guard's funding for 2022 is increased by a total of SEK 75.5 million further. The appropriations can be used, among other things, for staff building. Coast Guards are thus given good opportunities to strengthen their capacity at sea. In conclusion, the Coast Guard should now be considered to be well equipped in the coming years. The Government will continue to closely monitor developments to ensure Sweden's capacity for maritime surveillance and environmental rescue services at sea.
i-K5RkjH8zrEGqxSEVh2GM7e	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. On Saturday 4 December last year, a fire broke out in the wooden cargo on board the Liberian-flagged bulk carrier Almirante Storni. The ship had just anchored while waiting for bunkering outside Vinga in Gothenburg. The fire became fierce and developed, as the Government says, into one of the most extensive rescue operations at sea in modern Swedish history. Only ten days later, after the ship was towed into the port of Gothenburg, the fire could be extinguished. How and why the fire occurred remains to be investigated, but we can already note that huge efforts were made from the rescue service Storgöteborg, Coast Guard and hired tugs. For these efforts, we should be very grateful. Fortunately, no person was physically injured. Although material damage was considerable, it could have been much worse. The reason I've put this interpellation is not really Almirante Storni but another ship. This applies to a ship that was inside Frihamnen in Gothenburg, only a few miles from the scene of the accident: Coast Guard's combination ship Poseidon. Poseidon, together with his two siblings Triton and Amfitrite Coast Guard's largest ships in the so-called KBV 001 class, are built for such situations as these with extensive and complex open water ship fires. Madam President, I would like The Minister of Justice states in his reply that Poseidon was not on alert but that her sister ship Triton was and immediately departed for the scene of the accident. In doing so, the Minister just underscores my point with this interpellation. Triton is located in Slite on Gotland, and although she immediately left for the scene of the accident on Saturday afternoon, she arrived only on Monday morning. Poseidon could be manned up and connected at the scene of the accident, but only on Saturday night. Four valuable hours had passed since the fire broke out. Of course, it is not possible to say whether the fire course in this particular case would have been different if Poseidon, with its enormous capacity to pump water on the fire core, had been in place earlier, but it can generally be said that the faster the sufficient rescue resources are in place in an accident, the greater the likelihood that the damage is minimised and that the rescue efforts do not have to be so extensive. Then why was Poseidon, who was inside Gothenburg, not ready to go out to Almirante Storni, which was at the outlet of the river at Vinga? The chairman of the Tull-Kust trade union, Johan Lindgren, gave a very direct answer to that question in Expressen on 5 December: We've crossed the deficit line. He goes on to say, "You can't build an emergency readiness to call in staff." It is a patching and repairing of Gud's grace. ..................................................... Last summer Tull-Kust released a report on the Coast Guard entitled A mission critical to society with impossible conditions. It states that the needs of the Coast Guard include, among other things, new investments in aircraft and ships. 200 coastal guards need to be employed in operational activities, and an annual intake in aspirant training needs to be introduced in order to ensure the future supply of skills. As the Minister of Justice says in his reply, the agency's funding for this year is increased in the budget that the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats pushed through in the Riksdag. It is an important addition, but it also requires a long-term commitment from the government so that the agency has the opportunity to build capacity in accordance with what the union, among other things, demands.
i-JF3b9ZUyNSFxXxScWQ9Lse	Madam President, I would like First of all, it must be noted that this was a fantastic rescue operation led by the Coast Guard – at least in terms of the environmental rescue operation; then we also had rescue operations initially to manage to save lives and extinguish the fire, so to speak. There were a large number of players with them. Swedish ships were of course in place, and Norway also helped. We also asked for help from other countries, and other countries were prepared to pull out in accordance with the order that exists today that helps when such great things happen. All of this, as I said, was done to save lives but also to avoid environmental damage. It was cold, windy and difficult working conditions. It was a very prolonged rescue operation, which, as David Josefsson said, stretched over several days. But it had an extremely good result: no personal injury or leaking of oil, at least to no great extent. I want to say that I am very proud of what the Coast Guard, along with other actors, did these days. We will be. The Coast Guard has three large aircraft, three large rescue vessels and about a hundred smaller vessels at its disposal. Anyone who has ever been active in operational activities knows that not everyone can always be on standby. It doesn't matter how big a suit you wear – all efforts can't be on standby all the time. It simply does not work, but it needs to allocate the efforts and resources that are available at each individual day and time. In this case, Triton was on standby. Triton was in Hanö Bay. It was not located at Slite – on Gotland – but in Hanöbukten at the time, and it immediately departed for the site of the accident. Poseidon was located in Gothenburg. It wasn't on standby, but there was an opportunity to call in staff. This was done very quickly; the ship was manned in four hours. It was actually Poseidon who was in place first, because it took time for Triton to go from Hanö Bay to Vinga. Poseidon was in place first and was able to launch the rescue operation together with two other vessels that the Coast Guard had at its disposal, which had already gone out and were in place. In conclusion, I would say that Sweden has a very good coastguard activity. It is well-managed and has good resources to solve its task. However, it needs to be further strengthened. Since 2018, we have strengthened the Coast Guard with SEK 140 million, and this year the grant is further increased by a little more than SEK 75 million. There is, as David Josefsson says, a need for new recruits, and the money now being added to the Coast Guard will be used precisely for that. We are talking about a recruitment requirement of perhaps another 150 employees. Today, the Coast Guard has a total of around 830 employees, so if you get a boost of 150 employees in the coming years, it is a fairly large expansion of the business. I think this is extremely good, because, as I said, there is a need. This will allow us to further strengthen the Coast Guard.
i-Lkh4qUyU3C7SwN3sXd2ee4	Madam President, I would like The Government gave a very nice description of the rescue effort that was done, and I really think we should all be proud of it. However, it is because the staff made heroic efforts, not because the policy has provided the conditions for this. As I said, no person was injured and, paradoxically, despite extensive material damage, they were still limited—it was only a matter of damage to the ship's cargo and to a limited extent to the ship. Almirante Storni had anchored at the time of the accident in connection with the fairway into the port of Gothenburg to bunker. The port of Gothenburg is not only Sweden's but also northern Europe's most important port. Through the fairway to and from the port a large part of Sweden's imports and exports of goods by ro-ro vessels and container ships are transported. This is Sweden's only port of intercontinental call. A breakdown with a ship like Almirante Storni in the fairway could have meant a stop in both our goods imports and our industry's ability to export goods to the world. I say this to give some kind of perspective on this accident. An accident could even have been compared to what happened to the Evergreen ship in the Suez Canal, but in local bottling in northern Europe. Through the Port of Gothenburg we also get energy products to drive vehicles and aircraft. A fire in the cargo could have meant that the traffic had been stopped for safety reasons. Add to this that the ship was anchored on the outskirts of Gothenburg's southern archipelago, which is a valuable natural and cultural landscape. An accident – or for that matter just an oil spill, which the Minister himself talked about – would have risked large natural and recreational values. All of this we avoided this time, but it was with horror. In this perspective, it cannot be said that the preparedness around Gothenburg is sufficient when it takes one and a half days for the ship that is ready to arrive and when the first ship arrives only after four hours during an ongoing rescue operation, despite the fact that it takes place in connection with the port entrance. Madam President, I would like On 13 December, just a few days after Almirante Storni was towed into port, there was another collision between a British cargo ship and a Danish self-sealing barge outside Ystad. This also shows that it is not enough to be prepared with only one ship, because there can be multiple events on the long coast of Sweden. It is clear that greater preparedness is needed. The Government said in his reply that he believes that the Coast Guard is now well equipped for the coming years. The fact that we pushed through more money was necessary and important, but this does not mean that the rearmament is clear. According to the union, a great deal more is needed – 150 people are not enough; up to 200 people are needed in operational service. You also need to strengthen aspirant training and have an annual intake there. We also need to look at investments in ships and aircraft. Again, what is the Minister's action on these issues? Does he think that the preparedness will be sufficient, or does he intend to take further action?
i-NaAY6wucYYd5EvZiXBdN1B	Madam President, I would like I'll start with the rescue operation itself. So Triton was on standby in Hanö Bay. It went immediately to the scene of the accident, just as it would. Poseidon was located in Gothenburg. It was manned very quickly—in four hours, crew was brought in—and it was Poseidon who could go out and be in place first. In addition to these, two more coastguard vessels went out during this operation. One is called KBV 310 and is a surveillance vessel that has both fire and oil-fighting capabilities. This is a smaller ship. The second vessel is called KBV 048 and is an environmental protection vessel. This ship was also in place very quickly. It should be made clear that we had efforts and resources in place quickly on this occasion. Then Triton arrived after a while, when it could come up from the Skåne coast. We will, of course, follow the development of resources in relation to the Coast Guard. We're also building up the Coast Guard. It is wrong to claim that this is in some way something that the opposition has pushed forward. Since 2018, we have allocated an additional SEK 140 million to the Coast Guard. In our draft budget, we also spent another 30 million. The only thing that has come from the opposition budget is another 40 million. It is clear that we are happy to receive that money, but it is wrong to say that this would somehow be a decisive result of the opposition budget – this is small money coming on top of what the government has already invested. This is well part of the general political game. The important thing is that we get an additional SEK 75 million in place and that we can use this money to recruit more staff. The need in the Coast Guard is such that we need to increase the number of employees by up to 150 people, and we now have the resources to do so. In this way, we will reinforce the Coast Guard. I would also like to mark what I said at the beginning: not all ships can always be on standby; it doesn't matter how big a suit you wear. It is not possible, but it is necessary to allocate resources that are on standby at specific times. You should of course have an organization so that you can scale it up if something big happens, but you can't run an organization where everyone should always be on standby – I think everyone who has been involved in operational activities understands that.
i-HpThNHTQQDeG5m7saomj2V	Madam President, I would like The government stands here talking about small money and political games. Actually, I'm getting a little upset. As a Gothenburger, I cannot stress enough the importance of the port of Gothenburg for both our country and our neighbours. You can talk about how the suit can never be big enough. However, it is possible to discuss whether the suit is large enough when it takes four hours for sufficient rescue resources to reach an accident site at the entrance to the port of Gothenburg. It is true that there were ships in place earlier. This is good, but it is also about sending the right resources at the right time. It is not possible to say in the individual case, but somewhere you can see that it is quite frightening when, as on 4 December, it takes four hours for a larger ship of combination class 001 to reach an accident site. That is really my point. I think we must all realise that the port of Gothenburg is of particular importance to Sweden and to the Swedish economy. It is clear that the resources available in the Coast Guard today are not sufficient for a rapid rescue operation. Now it took ten days to extinguish the fire, and it was really only with horror that we avoided extensive destruction. This is my point with this interpellation debate. I hope that the Minister will take with him what I have said today and that it does not see this as a political game or wave away additional resources as small money, but actually takes the Coast Guard's mission seriously and ensures that we can build capacity so that we can ensure good preparedness around the entire coast of Sweden, including West Sweden and the Port of Gothenburg.
i-EDXvji6yQKLqHmVe1KsxHm	Madam President, I would like Absolutely! That's exactly what I've been saying. We're peeling up Coast Guard. We have added that money from 2018 onwards. But one should be aware that the Coast Guard's budget is much larger. The total costs are SEK 1.3 billion. If you spend another 30 or 40 million, you should know that you do it on a base of 1.3 billion. That's the proportion that I think you should be clear about. Then, as I said, we will have these additional 75 1⁄2 million. We use that money to strengthen the Coast Guard, hire more staff and make the suit grow further. The rescue effort at Vinga was a very big event, one of the biggest we have had in many years. The staff did an excellent job of which it should have all the honour. I feel a great pride in both the Coast Guard and others who were active in this rescue mission at this time. There were no personal injuries and no major oil leaks. It could have gone a whole different way if you hadn't been there as fast as you were. Then, as I said, we will do what we can to further strengthen preparedness. But right now I think that one should feel a great pride in the work that our employees did during these days.
i-4dsN3p37CpVkopdom72pnV	Madam President, I would like Angelica Lundberg has asked me whether I intend to press for a change of law so that the person detained loses the right to compensation in cases where the offender is still convicted, even after a reduced sentence, of the offence which has led to detention. Sweden has long been in possession of legislation whereby the State takes financial responsibility for detentions which should not have actually taken place. Legislation provides an important guarantee of legal certainty for individuals. This does not prevent it from being perceived as offensive that a person is receiving significant compensation despite the fact that the person is still convicted of serious crime. However, cases on which Angelica Lundberg is based are very rare. The most important thing for me is to strengthen the position of crime victims and reduce the harm caused by crime. Improving rules on compensation for victims of crime is a priority for the government in this work. An investigation has therefore, on behalf of the government, reviewed the rules on victims' right to compensation and their ability to obtain such compensation from the offender. I received one's report this summer. The investigation makes several proposals for amendments to the Compensation Act and the Enforcement Code. The proposals include a substantial increase in compensation for victims of crime and an improvement in the possibilities for the seizure of the property of convicted persons for the benefit of victims. For example, the proposal makes it easier for the detention of victims to be carried out on their behalf. The proposals of the inquiry have been referred, and I intend to return to Parliament in the spring on this urgent matter.
i-K9QhQq4QGdbjjrYdFxzfCk	Madam President, I would like On March 18, 2017, two men enter a woman's home while she sleeps. For several hours, the woman is then raped and beaten by the two men. The violence used against her is severe. She gets punched with fists and fired. Repeatedly, the men strangle her once so she loses consciousness. She'll be threatened to death, too. They say they have a gun and they're gonna shoot her. Just over a month later, April 28, that year, two men kidnap a woman and lock her in a basement. She's being abused under torture-like conditions. They threaten her with what she perceives as a gun and with a knife. They're squirting cold water on her. They tie her up and put a cloth in her mouth. For 17 hours, they then rape her repeatedly. They also invite her out to five other men, who also rape her in an extremely degrading way. In the end, the police storm the place, free the woman and shoot one of the men. Madam President, I would like I can't even imagine how terrible this must have been for the women and who but they are likely to carry with them for the rest of their lives. I feel sick just thinking about it. This, in my opinion, is one of the most serious crimes anyone can be subjected to. There should be no extenuating circumstances whatsoever for such disgusting behaviour. One of the two men who participated on both of these occasions is convicted by the Court of Appeal for aggravated rape in two cases, kidnapping, attempted blackmail and theft, and more. According to the court, the penalty value of crime is equivalent to ten years' imprisonment. After penalty discounts, the sentence will be jailed for four years and six months. The age of the man is determined to be over 18 years by the Finnish Immigration Service according to medical age assessment. When the judgment is appealed to the Court of Appeal, the man claims that he is 16 years old, something that the Court of Appeal first dismisses. The man then asks for a raise. Since it is not possible to prove that he is over 18 years old, the Court of Appeal is forced to change its mind. He is now sentenced as a 16-year-old instead. The new age assessment means that the penalty for the terrible crimes committed by the man is further reduced and ends in only two years. But the crazy thing about this story does not end there, Madam President. As the offender has now been detained for longer than the final sentence, he is entitled to compensation under the Act on Reimbursement in the event of detention and other coercive measures. The sum that the convicted man can pick out lands of improbable SEK 840 000. He gets two years in prison and SEK 840 000 in compensation for two serious rapes. It is not unreasonable to believe that a large majority of the Swedish population do not think this is okay. I would like to go so far as to say that it is both offensive and grossly provocative. My question to the Government is therefore: Why does it look like this? Why can those convicted of serious rapes in Morgan Johansson's Sweden sign out almost SEK 1 million in compensation even though they are convicted of the crimes?
i-NrUXbYkT2phtPwaaYVWgyY	Madam President, I would like Sweden and all the other rule of law have a regime in which the person who has been detained despite the fact that this should not have happened receives compensation for it. One of the most common cases is that a person is arrested and may be in custody for a month or two, but the preliminary investigation then fails to prosecute. You'll be released from custody and reimbursed for the time you've been in custody. Then there are cases where you are arrested, it goes to prosecution and you are then acquitted by the court. The crime has not been committed. Then you will also receive compensation for the time you have been detained. These are also among the most common cases. There are also other types of cases. The case to which Angelica Lundberg refers, I say, is quite unique in fact. I don't know any other case of this character. A person gets a retrial afterwards, that is to say a review of the sentence which says that the person has been in prison longer than it really should have done, in this case by reference to the age. This combination of rising, lowering penalties and then compensation I have not encountered at any other time. Nevertheless, the legislation must be interpreted in the light of existing conditions. It is the Chancellor of Justice who makes that interpretation, even in such unique cases. Then it is probably, as the order looks, that you should give compensation in these cases too, because the person was in prison longer than it really would have done. How, then, is this to be changed? There are two main points I would like to make. One is that we need to significantly increase compensation for victims. I think it seems very offensive that the compensation for the victims of crime is far too low. That is why I now have an investigation proposal ready. We are on our way to Parliament with a proposal to significantly increase compensation to victims of crime. In fact, it is almost a doubling of compensation for victims of crime that is under way. The second is that I want to allow for the enforcement of damages that criminals receive if they simultaneously have debts to other victims. For example, it is a matter of when a gang criminal is arrested for a crime and then released and is compensated for the time he has been in custody. If he has previously owed to other victims of crime, the order today is that the state cannot foreclose this money, and that is offensive. We are going to change that, and it is also in this bill. These two major changes are on our way to Parliament. There will be a legislative referral shortly, proposal later in spring and entry into force on 1 July. This means that we will greatly increase compensation to victims of crime and will ensure that the foreclosure facility is extended. In this way we will get to some of the problems. We will never get to everything, and this particular case I say is extremely unusual and unique. But even for unique and unusual cases, the law in force must be interpreted, and then the Chancellor of Justice's assessment was this. But, as I said, with the legislative changes we are making, we may be able to tackle some of the problems.
i-U7jCnQH6nR6p1TNqVrD4sQ	Madam President, I would like It may be an unusual case, but it has happened. It is also a situation in which a large majority of Sweden's people feel that this should not happen, and that is why we must take our responsibility in this House and make sure that we do what we can to change it. It is great that the government is working to strengthen the protection of victims and to ensure that the rules on compensation to victims are improved. It is also a good thing that the rules for the enforcement of damages are reviewed, as the Swedish Democrats have requested. But that's not why we're here today. I have called the Minister to the House to debate the crazy thing about someone who is convicted of a crime being compensated for a detention involving that particular crime. I see three basic problems here. Firstly, the Social Democrats and previous governments have opened the door to Sweden and let in lots of people like us in many cases have no idea who they are, how old they are or what their intentions are. In addition to the obvious threat to society that this poses, it also contributes to making the legal apparatus more difficult. It is very problematic not to have age assessments that are definitively established but that can be changed in order to reduce the penalty if one is convicted of a serious crime. Here the government has a bill under way to make it easier to change someone's age, both for the benefit of an accused and to the detriment of an accused. Secondly, the penalty rates and the penalty rebate. Two rapes of this particularly gross kind, kidnapping, blackmail and theft should from the beginning generate far more than the two and a half years to which the man in the example I mentioned was sentenced in the Court of Appeal. Thirdly, the right to compensation, which we are here today to discuss. The Chancellor of Justice has announced that the compensation was so high because both the time the offender was detained and the extent to which the offence was committed was taken into account. This increased the remuneration by 40 %. Such a system is absolutely reasonable if, instead, the penalty is acquitted or if, as the Government says, the penalty is released before it even goes to trial. Then it is of course relevant what severity the crime is suspected of. However, it will be absolutely horrifying to take this into account when the offender is still convicted of the crimes in question. Thus, when the sentence finally gained legal force, the rapist could walk away as a free man with $40,000 on his pocket. Victims also received compensation for the terrible things they were subjected to. The woman in the apartment was sentenced to SEK 155,000, and the woman who has been held and raped for 17 hours receives SEK 275,000. As I said, I welcome the fact that the government is going on the proposals that the investigation has made to increase the compensation for violations. The proposal that compensation granted on the grounds of deprivation of liberty can also be met if there is a debt to crime victims is good, but that is not enough. Will Morgan Johansson work for a change of law so that the right to damages is lost in the event that an offender has been detained for a crime for which he is still convicted when the judgment becomes final?
i-3EYFpqTNxv7k6CjGgQvvG3	Madam President, I would like The last is difficult, because this is a revision, that is to say that the Court has reconsidered what a previous court has come up with. Travels are extremely rare, especially for this type of serious crime, but once they occur, it is because new circumstances have emerged in the case that a person has been detained for too long. What should the rule of law do in this situation? A certain penalty has been imposed at first, but because of new circumstances, a review is carried out that shows that you would not have sat for long. Does the State then have an obligation to replace the sentenced person for this time? I think so because the original judgment was not correct. When the decision is reviewed, the question of the offender's claim for damages must also be dealt with. It's basic. This is therefore difficult to access, but other things can be done, such as a substantial increase in compensation to victims, which is under way. In the present case, the damages to the two plaintiffs were SEK 275 000 and SEK 225 000 respectively. In our proposal to Parliament later this spring, we are raising compensation to victims of crime significantly; we are talking about nearly doubling in general terms. As I said, we also want to extend the possibility of foreclosure. I can agree with Angelica Lundberg that we have had too little punishment for many serious violent crimes. That is why, over the last seven years, we have ensured that the penalties for almost all serious violent crimes are tightened. These include gross blackmail, aggravated assault, aggravated robbery, aggravated rape, serious gun crimes and serious drug offences. I think we are dealing with some sixty criminal sanctions and neo-criminalisations. In 2020, the number of prisons sentenced to trial was over 11,000, an increase of 40% in just a few years. The courts now impose higher penalties to a much greater extent than they did in the past, including as a result of the punitive measures we have taken. We will need to tighten the penalties in other respects too. I come to Parliament this spring with proposals for penalties for sexual offences. Among other things, we will increase the minimum penalty for rape. A lot of other things are coming too. Just recently, on 1 January, the reduction in penalties for young people, i.e. 18 to 20-year-olds, who have committed serious crimes, was also abolished. Only that will increase the punishment rate in a wide range of crimes. Let us reform support for victims of crime, the right to compensation and the right to foreclosure, while moving forward with penalties for serious crimes in order to combat them. There are unique cases of insurrection, and they are difficult to access. But I believe that Sweden will continue to provide compensation to those who, in the event of a review, have been in prison for too long.
i-D1Zd8kFur2dsVWjeT9VXLM	Madam President, I would like It is good that the penalties are tightened up, but obviously it did not help in the case I raised. As I mentioned in my previous speech, the problem with this particular uprising is that we have people in our country whose age is not fixed. We don't know how old they are, and when they think it's appropriate, they can claim that their age is another what's fixed from the beginning. We need to do something about this. I do not share Morgan Johansson's view that this would be a difficult problem. I see it as quite simple only the will exists, but that is usually where it is flawed. For various reasons, I have read a number of preliminary investigations, and I am often struck by how the suspect chooses not to participate in the investigation, but only in interrogations, answering no comment. Of course, you have the right to do so, but if you thus contribute to a longer period of detention than it would have needed to be, should you receive compensation for it? Morgan Johansson obviously thinks so. Unfortunately, Madam President, we are not getting much further in this debate. I and the Minister disagree on this issue. I do not think it is a completely insoluble problem to deal with such provocative damages. In my world, it is completely out of the question that a man who commits several serious rapes not only receives an incredibly short sentence but also gets paid for the time he has been locked up. Having said that, I hope that the Government will use its last speech to explain to the electorate why he thinks that a multi-criminal rapist who has himself contributed to a lengthy legal process should be awarded damages which, moreover, far exceed those imposed on the victims.
i-U8ad7fxbLY8hJRbW6fmaLE	Madam President, I would like First, as regards the point on age assessments, it was I who reintroduced the possibility of medical age assessments, which disappeared in 2013 or 2014 with the old government. I took the initiative to reintroduce them so that we would have better opportunities to clarify how old those who have come to Sweden really are. Now we have a working opportunity to do so. In this case, the age was set at over 18 years. Then the perpetrator came in afterwards with information that proved that he had not been older than 18 years. It was on that basis that he was then granted a raise. Nevertheless, it may be assumed that the Court of Justice has taken on board the new tasks at the later date and that they are the ones on which the decision was based. If it turns out that the offender was no older than 18 years of age and he has thus been in prison for too long, today's rules are such that he will be replaced for that time. It's hard to get to this. Such cases of uprisings will always arise from time to time. If there are new circumstances in a case that means that a person has been in prison longer than he should, then he has a claim to the state. I can also feel a strong moral upset sometimes about how to land on various issues. How do we get to this? I say: let us make sure that the compensation for victims is substantially increased. I will go to Parliament with this this spring. And let us make sure that we can foreclose the assets of the perpetrators in a completely different way than we can now. Then you can take possession of some of the money that has been allocated in compensation to people who have been detained. As I said, we will go along with this in the spring, and I am counting on a great deal of support.
i-6pQDisqATvRHkjQCcRVXBy	Madam President, I would like Marléne Lund Kopparklint has asked me what further measures I intend to take to combat sexual crimes against children and how I intend to work to protect children from paedophiles who seek children and come into contact with them online in order to expose them to sexual abuse. Combating sexual crimes against children is an urgent and high priority for the government. During our interpellation debate last autumn, I told you that the government has initiated a series of legislative changes in the area of criminal law involving stricter penalties and increased criminal liability for sexual offences. I also spoke about the mission to the 2020 sex crime investigation and the proposals that the investigation made this summer. I also told him that the government will set up a new investigation to review, among other things, the criminal law protection against sexual abuse of children aged 15 to 17. Furthermore, strengthening law enforcement capabilities is an important part of government policy. The expansion of the Police Authority has meant that the agency has been able to strengthen the resource that works with, among other things, sexual crimes against children. The Prosecution Authority has also received increased resources to develop its activities and increase the number of prosecutors. In order to increase knowledge of occurrence and risk and protection factors, the Government supports research on violence against children, including through the Foundation's National Children's House surveys. According to the Foundation's latest study, one in four students in grade 3 in high school reported that they had been abused during their childhood. The study's definition of abuse includes sexual harassment as well as serious sexual crimes. It is therefore a very broad definition. D the average age of the victim on the first occasion was 14.9 years. It is also clear that the most common perpetrator was an approximately same-year-old person known to the victim. The study from the Foundation General Barnhuset shows that the percentage of people who reported that they had been abused was higher in 2021 than in 2014. According to the report authors, part of the increase may be that it has become easier for young people to define what they have experienced as abuse and that they have thus been able to indicate it in the survey. At the same time, there are other studies that indicate that exposure to sexual offences has decreased in the last few years, albeit from high levels. According to the National Protection Survey of the Swedish Crime Prevention Council, published in October last year, the self-reported exposure to sex offences among 16 to 19-year-olds, who are the youngest age group in the study, decreased in 2020 for the third year in a row. Of course, sexual abuse of young people is deeply worrying regardless of whether or not the abuse increases. The fact that children are forced to grow up with violence and abuse is unacceptable. There is a need for coherent, long-term and strategic work aimed at ensuring the rights of the child and at remedying what does not work in practice. Last spring, therefore, a special investigator was tasked with making proposals for a comprehensive national strategy to prevent and combat violence against children. The strategy will develop a holistic approach and allow a coherent approach to preventing and combating violence against children over the next ten years. The investigator will report his mission in spring. In order to prevent sexual offences and increase the propensity to register, knowledge of the right to sexual integrity and self-determination must also be disseminated to both men and women, boys and girls. The Victims' Agency has therefore been tasked with disseminating information about the new consent law to young people, guardians and professionals. The previously implemented information effort of free will had a major impact, and last September the agency's mission was extended.
i-CEmuKFYfkM61pfT5cdi4sx	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. For many years we have chosen to look away and choose not to talk about this phenomenon. The culture of silence has penetrated everywhere. Resources have not been prioritised in the police. Meanwhile, paedophiles have been ravaged by our children almost unprotected. I wonder, why? From the Government's response, I get the feeling that the Government wants to alleviate the phenomenon of children being subjected to sexual crimes by highlighting that it has indeed decreased according to a survey. The Government chooses to highlight the fact that the average age of the victims in the survey he refers to is 14.9 years and that the perpetrator is quite similar. This actually feels like an attempt to belittle the matter further. Instead, the Government had been able to choose to report that in 2020 the highest number of rapes against children was reported so far, 16 per cent more than in 2019. The Government had been able to tell us that in 2019 the police received 8 138 reports of sexual offences against children during January to October and that they increased by 16 per cent in 2020 – an almost twice as high as the second highest recorded in the last five years – or that according to Statistics from Brå regarding reported child pornography offences there was an increase of 57 per cent in 2020 compared to 2019 and that these offences over a 20-year period have increased more than eight times. The Government could also have mentioned that the complaints concerning child abuse for sexual posing increased by 45 per cent in 2021 compared with 2019. None of this was said by the Government in its response, but it was more important for the Government to mitigate the spread of sexual crimes against children. This speaks clearly, Madam President. In his reply, the Government of Johansson states that combating sexual offences against children is a matter of great concern, that several measures have been taken to improve the chances of combating such crimes and that new initiatives are being taken on an ongoing basis. But I strongly question this. The measures taken seem ineffective when one sees the negative trend. I am highly doubtful about this when the police and prosecutors have more than their hands full of gang crime, which the government cannot control. Madam President, I would like Young children, even babies, children who have not even started school, children who have started school, teenage children and children of all ages fall victim to the despicable fact that an adult takes the right to commit sexual crimes. If people understood how it affects a child who has been the victim of a sexual crime-- if one day they experienced the pain, grief, shame, anger and frustration that the child feels during childhood and into adulthood-- one would see what torture prison the child was forced into. I know, and a lot of people who listen here know exactly how this feels. Every time you hear of a child who's been exposed to a disgusting pedophile, sadist, psychopath, pedoraptor, you're thrown back into that dungeon. For me, however, it is temporary, because I have got the tools to get out of it. But for the child who has just been subjected, the involuntary punishment has just begun – a punishment that the government could prevent.
i-9GXEbNpRMysHuhXHGHBbgR	Madam President, I would like Many thanks to Marléne Lund Kopparklint, who places this extremely important interpellation! One in four children is the victim of sexual crime — one in four! You shudder. As a parent, you get heartache, and I think you get it no matter who you are. I sat for a period in the social welfare board at home and know how terrible cases this can be. I know how important it is that we adults take this seriously and that we stand up for the vulnerable children. We are the ones who are safe, and we must not turn our backs on them. We have to work to make sure it doesn't happen again. But it doesn't always succeed. Quite a few times different stakes fall. However, there are various organisations that work well to protect vulnerable children, but more is needed. Here in the Swedish Parliament, too, this must be taken more seriously. We have to do more. Because if one in four children is exposed, each time is too much. Not another child! I have interviewed Sophie Jahn in Hästpartiet's podcast, who talks about her terrible upbringing on the horse farm on Ekerö here in Stockholm. It was a childhood with a father who was convicted of sexual abuse on small girls but who still got to come home to his farm and continue horse activities with many young girls. He was the riding teacher whose farm on Ekerö became the center of many scandals and sexual abuse. Sophie is his daughter. She's told her story now. She grew up with a father who was a psychopath. Growing up was lined with violence and terror. It was crazy night rites in extremely dangerous situations. It was fucked up punishment if they didn't do what the father said or if they had failed in a contest. Then they were dipped in the pool and then had to stand out in freezing temperatures until they could not even talk. Then they were dipped in the pool again, and so it went on. Then they would stand at attention, without trembling, to be able to apologize. Why could this father, who was convicted of sexual abuse, come back to the farm when there was no surveillance so that nothing could happen again? There was nothing, and there was no one to follow up on the matter. Marléne Kopparklint's question here today is therefore extremely important, Madam President. What further measures does the Minister intend to take to counter sexual crimes against children so that we do not have one in four children who are vulnerable?
i-Ebora9LgVVwTqCM2YRAvfB	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that violence against women and children and sexual abuse are and have been one of the most priority issues. I would say that it is absolutely wrong to say that nothing has happened or that the government has done nothing. It's just the opposite. Over the last seven years, we have carried out a wide range of both punitive and financial efforts on the law enforcement authorities to tackle this particular type of crime. We have tightened the penalties for sexual crimes, including aggravated rape of children. We did so during the last parliamentary term. We introduced consent law, which is a revolutionary legislation in many ways in relation to sexual offences. This means that we now have 80% more rape charges than we had before the legislation. We have 75% more convictions for rape than we had before the legislation. We abolished the limitation period for rape of children – this too was a major reform – given that we said that it should not matter how long has passed. The offender should know that no matter how long it takes, the legislator and the law enforcement authorities will be able to access you if you have committed crimes against children. Abolition of limitation periods is therefore important. We made sure the police recruited 350 special investigators. It is investigators with a special focus on particularly vulnerable victims, where violence against women, violence against children and also honour-related violence is a part of it. From 1 January, we are subsidising LVU transfers, i.e. the law on the care of young people. When the authorities need to take care of a child who gets hurt, they do an LVU treatment. It is often a very expensive effort; it can cost 5 000 – 7 000 SEK per day to do such a care. Then the state now enters with money and subsidises the municipalities' costs for this. We're spending almost half a billion on this. As a result, local authorities will have lower costs in doing these care services, which often need to be done to protect children who are in harm's way. So it is quite wrong to say that we have done nothing. On the contrary, we have done more than most other governments have done. And we're about to do more. What is happening now is that we will tighten the penalty for rape of children. There's a bill on it. We will tighten the penalties for child sexual abuse. We will tighten the penalty for child abuse for sex purchases. We will establish a new criminal offence, gross sexual harassment of children, with a penalty scale of up to three years in prison. We will extend the rules on the exploitation of children for sexual posing. These are just a few examples of legislative proposals that we will now be able to go to Parliament with. The Council's referral of this will come shortly, the proposal will come in spring and its entry into force will take place on 1 July. We will continue our efforts in the police and the prosecutor's services and instruct them in a way in which we say that these objectives should be prioritised and that they should set aside resources to combat these crimes. So no, it's actually not correct when you say that nothing has happened and that nobody cares about this. It's all wrong. The government that I represent has done more for this than any other government, and we will continue to do so. I naturally welcome the commitment of the Moderates and individual Members on this issue, because that means that we will continue to have very strong support in Parliament for our actions.
i-43MaSRyyzhKFtNgneYbfUZ	Madam President, I would like I find it a little distasteful that the Minister stands here and beats his chest and thinks that everything has gone so well. It hasn't. We have children who are exposed to this disgusting daily, and then you cannot stand here and think that what you have done is good and enough. We must stop normalizing and alleviating these crimes. It's as stupid as the school that says you shouldn't use the word pedophile because it can be offensive. It is said that there can be other things behind it so that it is not a paedophile. It is said that there are good 中 pedophiles and that therefore you should not pull them all over. Of course you should use the word pedophile! That's the term you usually use when you talk about someone who's attracted to children and commits sexual crimes against them. Then you should question what the "good" pedophile looks like. Is it the person who has previously exposed children and has stopped doing so? Is it the person who has sought care to maintain his abstinence and not consume child pornography? Well, then I might agree that there is a "good" "pedophile." However, what we should be aware of is that the human sexual drive is strong. If someone is to enter a lifelong celibacy, action by society is needed. It is not enough, then, to lean against voluntary chemical castration that no one follows up individually or that functions in a unsatisfactory way. It's not working. That it is still taboo to talk about sexual crimes against children, that you have to guard your tongue because it gets a little bad around it, must also end. As long as we gag this, the relatively sheltered workshop will keep the energy going. It is not the evil of the few that is the worst, but the silence of the masses that allows this to continue. If politics does not talk more about child sexual abuse because it is a bit gross, terrible or uncomfortable, consider how it feels for the children. If society does not stand for them, they are betrayed twice. If we are serious about protecting children against these vile crimes, more effective methods and stricter sanctions must be introduced, but above all these issues must be brought to light and not covered by culture of silence, normalisation and extenuating, which I believe the Government is doing. We need to start talking clearly about this, and if anyone asks me, I say that these issues have gone to hell in Sweden. It is a disgrace, and it is the government that is responsible for this. The statistics do not look good, and that it looks as it does bears the responsibility of the current government. I understand that miracles have not been done since the last time we stood here and debated, but the government should have been able to do more in a full term of office. However, it has simply not been given sufficient priority, which is completely insane. Our children are the most valuable thing we have. It is our future that we cannot protect from human monsters. Sexual offences cause serious health damage. Rape is the trauma that usually leads to PTSD and has the strongest link to suicide, suicidal thoughts and self-harm. The consequences are a changed life with varying degrees of pain, fatigue and mental illness. And we should know that if you have been sexually abused, that increases the risk of suicide by twelve times. You also get more exposed to other perpetrators. There is a great risk that this will be the consequences when you have been exposed as a child. Madam President, I would like I do not think it appropriate for the Minister to stand here clapping his chest and think that the government has done enough.
i-RiL7STkBZDFLfdYkmywXPk	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. There are many who are and have been exposed that it is their own fault. It's about both psychological and physical abuse. It's a very large culture of silence and a very large number of darkness, we'll have to assume. I agree with Marléne Lund Kopparklint that it feels like the Minister is trying to minimize the problems by throwing away some statistics. However, it is clear that notifications are increasing. More people are and will be exposed. The Minister states in his reply that the Victims' Agency has been tasked with disseminating information on the new consent legislation. That's good. The information should be provided to children, guardians and professionals. However, I wonder: when will that information come, and to whom? I'm the mother of teenage children. No one has received any information. I also wonder how to follow up on the efforts that have been decided so that they will be as planned. If there is a culture of silence and many believe that it is their own fault, you may need to have more or other efforts to reach the vulnerable children. It is important that the efforts made actually have the desired effect. Obviously, the interventions do not reach so many children, as so many are still exposed. Many with whom I have met and spoken feel that you do not get the support that is needed.
i-BxNqoK4BpsgvH1nDqgsstF	Madam President, I would like No one has claimed that everything has gone well. No one has claimed that we have done enough. No one's hit their chest in any way. I just said it's wrong to say that no one has done anything. Actually, that's not true. It is very easy to list all the measures that have been taken in recent years. We've tightened the penalties for sexual crimes. We've tightened the penalties for gross rape of children. We have introduced the consent law, which has led to a sharp increase in the number of prosecutions and convictions for rape. The free will campaign that Alexandra Anstrell touched on here at the end has been evaluated and has actually been shown to reach very large groups. It is primarily youth groups that are the target group for this campaign. We have therefore extended the mission of the Victims Agency to run that campaign. When we now have a consent law, we will also establish a consent culture, and that requires that we prevent with increased information efforts. We have abolished the limitation period for rape of children. We have 350 new special investigators on the police, and so the new big investment in LVU take-over by another half a billion. It is wrong to say that no one has done anything and that no one has cared about these issues. It is also wrong to claim that no one has talked about them. On the contrary, almost every time I have been interviewed on criminal policy, I have highlighted that we have two priority areas on the part of the government. One is gang crime, and the other is men's violence against women and children. That is why, in addition to the 34-point programme against gang crime, we also developed a 40-point programme to combat and prevent men's violence against women and children. No other government has done so. It is easy to see, when you list how the various parties have acted over the years, that all the major reforms in this area have been pushed forward by Social Democratic governments. Legislation on the Crime of Women's Peace – Social Democrats. The Sex Purchase Act – Social Democrats. Consent Act – Social Democrats. Removal of limitation period – Social Democrats. Further punitive measures for sexual crimes – we have done this. No major reform in this area has ever been pushed forward by a moderate government. I would like to challenge both Marléne Lund Kopparklint and Alexandra Anstrell to mention one thing that the Moderates have done to push these issues forward. There are no such examples. So do not say that we have done nothing, because it is exactly the opposite! Marléne Lund Kopparklint asks the question: What are you going to do now? I have just listed the additional measures we are about to take. We will tighten the penalties for rape of children. We will tighten the penalties for child sexual abuse. We will tighten the penalties for child abuse for sex purchases. We will create a new crime involving gross sexual harassment of children, with up to three years in prison on the scale of punishment. We will extend the provision on the exploitation of children for sexual posing. We will also continue to allocate funds to prosecutors and police and instruct law enforcement authorities that these issues are priorities. In addition, we are setting up a further investigation to review criminal law for child abuse between the ages of 15 and 17 in order to extend that part as well. But that's the next step. There will be a reform for the next parliamentary term. What is ahead of us now are these punitive measures in relation to sexual crimes. Here I expect a legislative referral shortly, parliamentary treatment in the spring and entry into force already on 1 July 2022.
i-XcvUX6GJ4Sxg6dn7EfmKrS	Madam President, I would like It will be very difficult to hold a debate in this House when the Minister cannot even keep track of the concepts. He's talking about men's violence against women; I'm talking about child sexual abuse. I don't think you should blame yourself and go to the Moderates either. Take responsibility for yourself! You're the one in government. It is you who should take responsibility in the first place. How can I get the government to seriously squeeze all paedophiles who sneak around on the Internet and want nothing but to expose children to horror? What concretely will be better for the children of all the things that Minister Johansson lists? Where is the power of action and will? Does the Government think it is reasonable that a convicted 19-year-old paedophile who has abused young children for a long time can search the preschool line after the mark in the load register has disappeared? Is it reasonable for a convicted paedophile who is out on parole to sit on a park bench outside a preschool? Here's some tips for the government on what to do. The space to expose a child to sexual abuse and get away with it must be eliminated. There are a few of the sexual offences that are cleared up and leading to prosecution and punishment, that is, of 1 000 sexual offences, 4 leads to a penalty and a mark in the criminal record. When you look at how many children have been exposed, you realize that it is shameful. We have to make real efforts here. There are so many pedophiles out fishing for child victims, and the reason they do is because they can do so. The government must make more efforts and not just stand and talk about men's violence against women.
i-9XHAebTLA1Q4W2p51Yxe8i	Madam President, I would like We speak and men's violence against women and children. That's what we're talking about. That is, among other things, what we have a 40-point programme against which we are now rolling out gradually. I am opposed to the image that is being attempted, namely that the government has done nothing and that nobody has done anything. It's all wrong. It is a long series of reforms that we have carried out over these seven years. I have listed them, and Marléne Lund Kopparklint has not commented on one of them. It's like she doesn't take the information at all about all the things we've done. We have tightened the penalties for sexual offences, introduced consent legislation, removed the limitation period and appointed 350 new investigators precisely to investigate crimes in close relationships and crimes against children. We are making new major efforts to take care of children who suffer in families. We're going in with half a billion from January 1st to do that. Surely we must be able to take on board the information that this has happened and that we are doing this? We are also on the way with further things, such as the punitive measures that I have now listed in relation to sexual crimes but also efforts to access crimes that occur remotely, i.e. when perpetrators instruct children on the other side of the world over the Internet to, for example, commit sexual acts against themselves. Here too, we will extend the legislation with these new legislative proposals that we are putting forward. Madam President, I would like These are and have been one of the government's most prioritised issues, and I think I am saying that no other government has done more than we do. The question I asked Marléne Lund Kopparklint was precisely whether she could say one thing that the Moderates have done in government to combat this type of violence. She cannot, because there is not a single reform that her party has pushed forward. It is a pity, but I have plenty of examples of what we have done and many more examples of what we will do in the future.
i-HEHtWVya2PXyuhTu8eTHv1	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked Minister of Justice and Home Affairs Morgan Johansson how he intends to increase the opportunities for NGOs to participate in various training courses in order to further educate themselves and promote total defence. She has also asked him if he has any proposals to create opportunities for NGOs to achieve their objectives in the mission. Finally, she has asked whether it is his assessment that a joint Ministry of Defence would improve the synchronisation between military and civil defence. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The voluntary defence organisations are an important part of the overall capability of the total defence. In addition to staffing and strengthening resources, they contribute to peoples' attachment and the willingness to defend themselves. A strong people's attachment and a willingness to defend is a prerequisite for the war-responsive task of the total defense. It is the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Agency for Civil Protection and Preparedness that enter into agreements with the volunteers and sets out the objectives for their training and is also responsible for providing the voluntary defence organisations with the conditions to be able to solve the assignments given by the authorities. In these conditions are instructors, equipment and training facilities, for example. Provisions on the conditions and benefits of voluntary defence activities are contained, inter alia, in the Regulation(1994:524) on voluntary defence activities and the Regulation(1994:523) on voluntary benefits. Questions about compensation and other benefits are discussed in more detail in the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Agency for Civil Protection and Preparedness. The ability of voluntary defence organisations to contribute to the overall defence capabilities should be ensured in the long term. In this context, it is important to provide long-term predictable funding to voluntary defence organisations in order to contribute through their activities to popularisation and defence will. The Government has therefore commissioned the Swedish Armed Forces to review the financing of the activities of voluntary defence organisations with this aim in the regulation letter for the year 2022 concerning the Swedish Armed Forces. The work will be carried out with the assistance of the voluntary defence organisations and the Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency and will be reported on 1 September 2022. The work to rebuild the total defense is a joint work for the entire government, and the work is a high priority. As Minister for Defence, I am responsible for military defence and for coordination between military and civil defence within the framework of total defence. The Minister of Justice and the Minister of Justice is responsible for coordinating society's emergency preparedness and for civil defence. Whether responsibility is collected within a department or divided between two departments is not crucial for the government's work on total defence.
i-VBmKApYpbiG136khdGZCNW	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. For over a hundred years we have had voluntary defence organisations in Sweden, and they play an important role in Sweden's preparedness for crisis and war. It is about 350 000 people of different ages who are currently involved in 18 different voluntary defence organisations. Courses and training of volunteers ensure that special competences are maintained and developed as needs change. Now the need has really changed. Several of the organisations also have activities for young people in order to be able to train and move forward. The organisations support both civil authorities and the Swedish Armed Forces. A functioning civil defence is an essential condition for the military defence to be able to solve its tasks, and a civil defence without volunteers is absolutely impossible to achieve. When you participate in one of the various voluntary defence organisations, you first need an initial training course, and then you can learn more through various further training courses so that we get the skills that we need. The Act on the Protection of Employment during Certain Service in Total Defence exists and allows people to get leave from their employer in order to work on so-called contractual days. When you are educated, you can get agreements with, for example, the Swedish Lotta Corps, the Home Guard and the like to be part of the total defense. However, there is no legislation that gives you the right to leave during the training itself. It does not do so either for the basic training required for starting or for continuing training within any of the NGOs. Madam President, I would like I think that if we are to be serious about the importance of voluntary defence organisations, we also need to give them the right conditions. Then you can't actually, like the minister, just blame someone else in some form of something elseism. I wonder, Madam President, if the Minister does not agree with me. If the Minister does not, I wonder how the Minister intends to strengthen the NGOs we have more than just with money. If they are not given the right conditions, there will be an element 22. The importance of robust emergency preparedness and civil defence has been put in the spotlight of the pandemic. I wonder if the Minister could envisage making broad proposals that promote the important participation of volunteers and strengthen their important work. We have the lottery corps, the auto corps and all these talented organizations that do wonders in everything from logistics and staff work to driving a car and even skydiving. They put their minds and hearts down, to be part of Sweden's total defense. A further example of how this poses problems for them is that when you request leave of absence, your salary reduction is different depending on how you are scheduled. When you have been on leave without pay for part of a month, the salary deduction is made on the basis of the calendar day's salary. However, some have full hours of work that are spread out on fewer days. This means that the factor for their leave days is higher but that it is not fully replaced. There are enthusiasts working in total defense. They want to do so, and they do so even though today they are not getting the right conditions. We now see problems. Can't we solve them together?
i-DZzkBUftrHF5RCUin6yM9g	Madam President, I would like It has been a journey with the voluntary defence organisations, just as it has been a fairly comprehensive journey with the entire Swedish Armed Forces and the civil defence since we got the government power in 2014. There are many things that have been repaired, changed and are in step-by-step development work. This also applies to voluntary defence organisations. One of the starting points for 2014 was that there was no total defence planning. It was closed. For many years there was also a discussion and reflection about whether the voluntary defence organisations had a role and an importance in the future Armed Forces. I can read from the Government's regulation letter from 2008: a Swedish Armed Forces survey and report on how and to what extent the voluntary defence organisations can support the Swedish Armed Forces' activities. The Swedish Armed Forces must report which voluntary defence organisations are still needed for the Swedish Armed Forces' operations. This attitude was characterised by a lot of mood during that period. Although the question of whether they were needed was raised from government positions and, if so, what was needed, a large part of the membership and much of the commitment were maintained. It shows the strength of these organizations. When we began to build a new kind of defense, of course, they played an extremely important role. I would like to highlight a decision that I believe was central and important in order for the organisations to have a proper recruitment base in the future: the reactivation of military service. I think it was a strategically good decision that was made. This partly addresses much of the problem of future personnel supply to the Swedish Armed Forces, but also provides a different base for NGOs. People's support is something that NGOs and their 350 000 members symbolise. It is a force in Sweden. But we must also ensure that new members are added. Over the years, I have met many of the NGOs in various crisis situations, in connection with forest fires, in connection with the pandemic and in other contexts. They do an impressive and extensive job. Therefore, I also have regular meetings with them. We have increased the grant to them by 94 million; by 40 million in the Swedish Armed Forces' area of operations and 54 million in the MSB's area of activity – together 94 million. It is a work that is going on and that is in no way finished. In the case of different types of benefits and benefits, there must be dialogue within the framework of public authorities' activities. We are following it, of course, and we are prepared to take action if the authorities report that kind of direct need.
i-CFx7YnEzFqt3mxNP7rr7Es	Madam President, I would like Our NGOs are important. It is also important for all volunteers to help when something happens. In the event of forest fires, we have seen how important it is to be able to organise volunteers who are not in organisations. Then we need organisations that can involve those volunteers who are not in the organisations. They are needed from many different aspects. When I last visited an education within the lottery corps in Enköping, they raised another problem: that there is a great need for premises. It's a local shortage. Now that we are changing up and expanding the defense, there are also more people in place at the different regiments. This means that there will be a local shortage when, for example, the lotteries need special facilities to organise their training courses. This is just one of several problems that pops up now that we're switching up the entire defense. By conveying knowledge and competence, strengthening commitment to total defence and developing society's functionality during increased preparedness for war, voluntary defence organisations contribute to both military and civil defence. Then we must take this seriously and solve the problems when they arise. In order to achieve the best possible synchronisation between civil and military defence, we Moderates believe that a total defence ministry should be set up as soon as possible. Then I think that premises do not fall as easily between the chairs and that it is easier to solve problems. The importance of robust emergency preparedness and civil defence has come to the fore now that we have a pandemic. The consequences were evident when it turned out that we did not have the preparedness required by the situation. There are several reasons for this, but I think that we need to constantly focus on identifying the challenges and presenting solutions to what is instead of dwelling on what has been. Politics, we in Parliament and you in the government, must take a strong stance to resolve the situation we find ourselves in. There are clear problems here, Madam President. I wonder how the minister intends to solve them. I have therefore taken the initiative in this interpellation debate. Voluntary organisations have a goal to achieve: to carry out a certain number of training courses and so on. The reintroduction of military service was good. I agree with the Minister. However, more efforts are still needed. Voluntary organisations receive compensation for doing certain things and for carrying out training within their activities. If there is no possibility, because of legislation or not enough premises, we have a problem. If it is not possible to get leave of absence, the NGOs will not have any training and if there is no place to train, once leave has been granted, they will not be able to organise their training courses. That is why I have asked the Minister whether he has any proposals to create opportunities for NGOs to achieve their objectives in their operational missions. I do not have any answers here, Madam President. I repeat the question: what proposals does the Minister have to create for NGOs to achieve their operational objectives when they are not given the right conditions?
i-MRdqLGwfjc1pTpd2rtrLQ1	Madam President, I would like To be given the right conditions becomes a rather general and sweeping concept, and so we present some examples. Local issues for different activities across the country are something that needs to be resolved within the framework of NGOs and the authorities. It cannot reasonably be a departmental issue to engage in premises such as Sundsvall, Falun, Borlänge, Åmål or Karlstad. We will then come down to a level of detail that will not work in practice. On the other hand, it may be important to highlight the fact that there is a problem. Wages and agreements are issues on which I am cautious to comment, as it leads immediately to promises that can be perceived as binding or as a result of strong ministerial government. These are issues that need to be addressed through dialogue with NGOs and relevant authorities. In the event that it is necessary and that there are such proposals, we are, of course, open to taking the initiative to review the current regulatory framework. But I would like to emphasise that the authorities are responsible for the application of laws, regulations and other regulations. I also said in my first speech that we have now commissioned the Swedish Armed Forces to review the funding of the activities of NGOs. This work shall be carried out with the assistance of the NGOs. It shall be reported to the Government on 1 September 2022. There is therefore a recurring and step-by-step work on improving conditions and solving problems in collaboration. And the problems should be solved in such a way that decisions are always taken at the right level so that one does not give a picture that the government is now going to carry out a decision-making that is actually in the hands of authorities. This is not a way for me to blame, but I just want to account for what it looks like and who bears responsibility in different stages of decision-making. I think that NGOs should be given the best conditions. Therefore, I have regular contact and regular meetings. At the department, we also have staff directly responsible for this dialogue. When I gave a picture of what this has looked like over the years, it wasn't to dwell on what has been. It was just a way of putting things in perspective. When some questions were raised – even from the government level – about which NGOs would remain and what was actually needed, it naturally created a situation of great pessimism, but it still managed to cope with the membership base. Then we have come into a completely different situation, even if it is not the same thing as everything having worked itself out. There are many things that need to be addressed and that need to be taken forward. This is done in cooperation and mutual dialogue. We've set aside more money. We now also have the assignment to be presented on 1 September this year. Then we'll see how we move on.
i-7jN7P7x4zLkARoXTZXDbBT	Madam President, I would like I do not know whether my speech can be called general sweeping. I think I gave two very clear examples of how problems arise. These are problems that we should look at in order to find solutions. It was in broad agreement that the Swedish Parliament's parties in the Swedish Defence Committee's 2017 report supported proposals to strengthen Sweden's civilian preparedness for the needs of the total defence in case of increased preparedness and ultimately in war. But what has actually happened to civil defence in these four years? There are a lot of investigations and not so much workshop on site. Very little happens nationally, but there will be increased demands and charges on municipalities and regions without funding to them or clear objectives. Madam President, I would like We are now standing in the middle of winter. We see a serious and increasing security threat not far from our own borders. We see flashing electricity prices not only in Sweden but also in Europe, and we have sharp increases in fuel prices that risk paralyzing the possibility of living and operating in large parts of the country. All of this, of course, has a direct impact on civil defence and emergency preparedness. In addition, a functioning civil defence is an essential condition for the military defence to be able to solve its tasks. For over a hundred years we have had voluntary defence organisations in Sweden, and they play an important role in Sweden's preparedness for crisis and war. Now we see problems. Two of them I've lifted up here today. I therefore believe that action is needed. Is the Minister willing to make broad proposals that promote the important participation of volunteers and strengthen their significant work? Many employers are decent and give people leave of absence, but some employees feel that they have to come with their hat in their hand to ask for time off. Should this be the case for people who will strengthen Sweden's total defence?
i-VFvzUizigdJNnLrcbZf7sT	Madam President, I would like I have not said that the specific issues of premises, leave and contractual matters were, in themselves, said in sweeping terms. I pointed out more about the general picture that we would hardly do anything in these contexts. A very big change, which I think is important to point out, is that we are now talking about total defence decisions. We have decided in the Riksdag on a total defence structure. It started in 2015 with the decision taken at the time and continued with the decision taken in 2020. All of this indicates a total change in the basic view of the defense. The big change that lies at the bottom was that we went from a defence characterized by international operations to a national defence. Then it becomes natural to talk about total defence with both the civilian and the military. I have said several times now that we are prepared to gradually improve the working conditions of voluntary defence organisations. We have already provided additional funds, and we have also created a completely different recruitment base. We will also have an assignment reported on 1 September 2022. However, we cannot go down at a detailed level, such as local issues around the country. It will be an unreasonable task for, for example, the Ministry of Defence. This must be done through the organisations and the authorities. As far as remuneration and leave are concerned, I have explained how such matters should be dealt with within the Agency. If other changes need to be made, it may be brought up to the government via the authorities and organisations. All of this we have the opportunity to come back to.
i-JasTzvbT7qw67w3qfeNRKd	Madam President, I would like Ludvig Aspling has asked me whether I will set up an investigation to review the possibility of introducing similar proposals for the relocation of the asylum system in Sweden as those introduced in Denmark. I do not intend to set up such an investigation, and the government has no plans to introduce the corresponding system. The proposal raises a number of questions as to how it is in line with the Code of Conduct. Such a regime is also in danger of breaching the EU asylum procedure directive, which Sweden, unlike Denmark, is bound by. Björn Söder has previously asked the corresponding question about the arrest of asylum in Denmark. I note that the attitude of the government has not changed.
i-Y4aS6Y8CuHAmsZWTKaR3qz	Madam President, I would like The drama that has just taken place in the border area between Belarus and Poland illustrates how the EU asylum system undermines the Union's diplomatic capacity to act. It challenges our internal stability, and it attracts people to make life-threatening journeys. Belarus' dictator flew in so-called tourists from some Middle East countries and then bused them directly to the EU border to seek asylum. The purpose of the operation was to put pressure on the European Union. A number of people died on the road. Many hopeful migrants are still trapped in Belarus today. They have paid large sums of money to get to the EU. They still have the chance to do so, but it is a completely lethal project. The EU Commissioner for Migration, Ylva Johansson, Swedish Social Democrat, called a new phenomenon in connection with a parliamentary visit to Lukasjenko. Johansson took office in autumn 2019. She has had ample time to familiarise herself with the policy area that the EU calls external aspects of migration, that is, how migratory flows to the Union are affected or exploited by our neighbours. However, she does not seem to have been very familiar with the matter. As far back as 2011, countries like Kenya and most recently Turkey have used the same tactics with great success. In 2016, Angela Merkel agreed to give SEK 6 billion on behalf of the EU in exchange for Erdo The only thing that can be called a new phenomenon here is that the EU's most responsible official seems to have no idea of the recurring blackmail attempts that have been going on for over a decade. Regular blackmail is not the only problem that today's system leads to. Migration flows are largely controlled by organised crime. It was also an important source of income for the Islamic State, for example. As we allow this system to continue, organised crime and terrorist groups are being strengthened. Terrorists can then invest their money in destabilising the neighbourhood. It creates more migrants, creating more revenue and more opportunities to cause confusion. This is something that is well documented but which is very rarely talked about when we discuss the issues of the external aspects of migration. My first question to the Minister for Migration is really this: is there any insight at all from Anders Ygeman that today's regulations, which prohibit Member States from rejecting asylum seekers and in itself create so many problems both here and in the immediate area in the form of drowning disasters, terrorist financing and undermining of our diplomatic weight, is such that it is purely immoral not to work to change this system? Does Anders Ygeman understand this? The written answer I received to the interpellation was one of the most sad things I have ever seen. There are two sentences in which Anders Ygeman writes: Such a regime is also in danger of breaching the EU asylum procedure directive, which Sweden is bound by. ..................................................... If Anders Ygeman believes that a rule in the UN Refugee Convention hinders Denmark's action, he will be very interested to clarify what rule that would be. I've looked through it myself. I can't find any such rule. As far as the EU asylum procedure directive is concerned, it is something that we are currently negotiating to reform. A reasonable starting point would be that reform that ensures or allows this system would be a priority for the government.
i-6TXtVp2mWeDTQj4jMKBqHm	Madam President, I would like Firstly, for the sake of order, I would like to say that if Ludvig Aspling wishes to debate the various statements of the European Commission, Ludvig Aspling will be able to stand as a candidate for the European Parliament, which will be able to do so in an extensive manner. Secondly, Ludvig Aspling asks a few questions. What Ludvig Aspling now expresses is slightly different from what is in the interpellation. Should you do what Ludvig Aspling now says, it is absolutely certain that it conflicts with the international conventions that Sweden has signed and which Ludvig Aspling's party claims to be behind. Perhaps I will give the story and the background to this for Ludvig Aspling pious. It is the Jews and other people who fled from the persecution and extermination of Nazism where other countries refused to accept them. That is the background to the fact that we have these rules. That is the lesson the international community learned from World War II. I think it's a wise background. Although there are those who want to rewrite the history of World War II and history, I think it would be unfortunate to make the changes that Ludvig Aspling now suggests that he wants to do and that his party has previously said he does not want to do. As regards whether the Danish proposal is contrary to the Convention, the UNHCR has stated that it is unclear as the Danish proposal is not sufficiently precise. We'll just have to wait till we have it on the table. However, it cannot be ruled out that it is contrary to the Convention. In fact, there is also one of the drawbacks of the Danish proposal in the EU. Let us see if Denmark succeeds in getting it in place and what rules it will then include. It will then also be clear whether it is possible to implement within the framework of international conventions. I'll allow myself to doubt. I think most assessors share the same view. As far as the Asylum Procedure Directive is concerned, we are bound by it. We will see how it will be reformed, but we are bound by it. Denmark is not because they have exceptions. There is a big difference between Sweden and Denmark. Regardless of international conventions, I believe that it is not a system that solves the problems that Ludvig Aspling at least says he wants to solve.
i-Wkw4ytt2BXcNRnL56VkdBm	Madam President, I would like The essence of the problem lies in the fact that EU law strictly prohibits Member States from rejecting asylum seekers. At the same time, the Member States of the Union are desperately trying to keep migrants away from the border. This is what creates a completely unsustainable negotiating situation with our neighbours. However, there is one Member State that has thought about and has come up with a potential solution that takes account of the interests of all parties. Denmark has taken the first steps towards the relocation of the entire asylum procedure to third countries. In this way, we are helping those who have real protection needs and who need international protection. But they do not have to get to the Union through illegal roads. In addition, far fewer would embark on these deadly journeys across the Mediterranean or through Belarus, as there is no longer any economic incentive to enter the Union itself. Fewer travellers would mean significantly less revenue for organised crime and terrorist organisations. Fewer travelers mean fewer fatal accidents. Fewer travellers mean a chance for us here at home to recover, rebuild our systems and begin the integration of those who are already here. As reception takes place in DAC countries, the costs can also be accounted for as assistance, or in any case it should be possible to do so. So this is a win-win-win situation. There are not really any negative aspects to the proposal, but it is the future, as I see it. The arguments put forward by the Government against the proposal are that it would be contrary to the Union acquis, which is nonsense because we are currently in a negotiation as the future Union acquis. It cannot be said that the problem is that it is contrary to the Union's acquis while at the same time not being willing to pursue the corresponding proposals at Union level. It's just a way of blaming yourself. To the question of the United Nations Convention on Refugees. I asked in my introductory speech whether Anders Ygeman could refer to the rule of the United Nations Convention on Refugees that would put an end to it. I've read this document myself. I have written a short paper about it at the Administrative Court a few years ago. I do not know that there would be a specific rule that explicitly and unambiguously puts an end to it. It should be borne in mind that the United Nations Convention on Refugees does not really regulate such things as the asylum process in the way that the EU rules do, but those rules remain at a much more comprehensive level. The main rule of the United Nations Convention on Refugees is that people who meet the criteria for being refugees must not be sent back to a country where they will be subjected to protective treatment. We don't do that in this case. In the scenario I am describing, those people would be put in safety in other countries where they would not be exposed to such treatment. Now it's a little up to the government here to explain itself. What rule of the Refugee Convention is it that puts an end to Denmark's proposal? I'm all ears.
i-W1GpXkAWcMTF7syPhaArCB	Madam President, I would like Since I have as a general rule to try to answer the questions asked by interpellers, I will give the same answer as I gave in my previous speech. Ludvig Aspling probably heard that, but he's still asking the question again. UNHCR has doubts. However, since the proposal does not yet exist and the details do not exist, it is not possible to say unequivocally that it conflicts or does not conflict with the Convention. That's the point. That is also the point against the whole of Ludvig Aspling's argumentation. He tries to say that something that does not exist, something that is unlikely to happen, will solve all the problems. It is an amazingly smooth way to conduct politics. But it is completely useless for those who want to solve problems in reality in the real world, where you have to have solutions that are tested, that you know works and that exist. Ludvig Aspling's proposal does not meet any of these criteria. Let me put a question to Ludvig Aspling about his solution, which will solve all the problems experienced by him. There is a man who is fighting against the dictatorship of Belarus, who is oppressed and persecuted. Many of Parliament's parties have fellow party members in Belarus who are subjected to this treatment. This forces this person to flee from Belarus in order to go to Sweden, Denmark or Lithuania. In what way would it make things easier for this person if he or she were to know that unfortunately one cannot come to Sweden? On the other hand, an asylum application for protection against the regime in Belarus could be taken into account if he or she made his or her way to the Central African Republic or Algeria instead. How would it facilitate the opposition in Belarus in its work against the regime there?
i-29mANCKGkCxu81eSAbTiUN	Madam President, I would like This must be the most sad thing I've ever heard. Mikael Damberg seems to have given up completely. Has Mikael Damberg – Anders Ygeman, sorry – announced that he will leave politics after the elections? What's going on? The migration crisis in Belarus, Anders Ygeman, is not about people fleeing the Belarus regime. What the government says is completely bizarre. The people standing at the border trying to cross the border to Poland were migrants from northern Iraq in particular. Most of them come from Iraqi Kurdistan. Those from Belarus – hypothetically – seeking asylum in the EU would not be covered by the proposal because they enter from a country where they are at risk of protective treatment. That's exactly my point. If you risk protective treatment and travel from such a country, you must have the right to enter the Union. Our party has never said that people who are fighting against the regime in Belarus would not be allowed to enter the European Union. However, the migratory flows we are talking about now concern people coming from different countries in the Middle East. Actually, I thought the government knew about that. Now I feel that we need to start over at a basic level and explain what has happened in recent months. It is absolutely embarrassing that the Government does not know the whole story of the Belarus regime flying in migrants from the Middle East, particularly Iraqi Kurdistan, and then sending them to the border with the EU to seek asylum there. This is precisely the situation that the proposal aims to prevent. This has nothing to do with people who come from Belarus and who need protection from the Belarus regime. That is a completely different question. Now, in fact, the Government Office needs to get its act together. This is embarrassing.
i-MswLXSRLbRBGKLvvcV5HKo	Madam President, I would like Firstly, I would like to inform Ludvig Aspling that the names of the Government Minister are on the display in front of Ludvig Aspling. If he has difficulty keeping 22 names in his head, or even the name of the one he has made the interpellation, they are there for Aspling. Second, most people can hold more than one thought in their heads at the same time. If the asylum system is changed, it does not only affect those whom Ludvig Aspling is currently watching on television. It is also, of course, about everyone else who is seeking asylum. If Ludvig Aspling had read the Danish proposal, which he claims will solve all migration policy problems for Sweden, Ludvig Aspling would have seen that the goal of Denmark's proposal is for zero people to apply for asylum in Denmark. Zero! If zero does, how many Belarusian dissidents will have the opportunity to apply for asylum in Denmark? If the proposal at Aspling's discretion is correct, it will be zero. Instead, they will seek asylum in Ghana or the Central African Republic. It is something that hardly benefits dissidents there or in any other country where people are oppressed or persecuted for their political opinions. When it comes to working towards migrants being used as political rams against other countries, active work is taking place in the EU. At the next Council of Ministers, a wide range of measures will be taken. There are a number of measures which I believe Denmark also supports. If Ludvig Aspling's party is behind the measures, we will see at the next EU Council meeting.
i-yCbht3SGzUqPvKVc9LLVi	Madam President, I would like Maria Stenergard has asked me what measures I and the government have taken to put legislation in place to enable forced testing in order to implement expulsion decisions and the timetable for further work. A fundamental prerequisite for a long-term sustainable migration policy is that those who have been refused their asylum application or for other reasons may not stay in Sweden return to their home country. The government is working to increase the return of persons who are not allowed to reside in the country. Among other things, the Migration Agency and p olisen have been tasked with intensifying their work in order to significantly increase return. The authorities have the full support of the Council in this work. The government will also further intensify the ongoing dialogue with countries that do not take back their citizens. Forced testing of people to return is a very far-reaching measure that also has constitutional aspects through the protection in the government form against forced physical intervention. Therefore, such measures need to be analysed and carefully considered. The Government intends to return to the issue of handling the Riksdag's announcement.
i-CeE8dDJ71un5GW8ckQQycW	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. About a year ago, P4 Gothenburg reported on the problems of sentencing who stayed in Sweden by refusing covidtest. In an interview on the radio, the head of the border police section of the Western region noted that people who did not want to go home simply refused to test themselves. Since there was at the same time a shortage of detention places, several persons were released at large. In view of this, I put a written question to the then Minister for Migration Morgan Johansson. And then the pandemic had been going on for over a year. The question was about what measures he intended to take to remedy the fact that forced expulsion could hinder his own expulsion by refusing covidtest. The Minister of Migration replied that forced testing was not a measure he was prepared to consider. That answer, Madam President, was remarkable for a number of reasons. On the one hand, the reply gave the impression that the Minister for Migration believed that the pandemic was of a temporary nature and was about to end – although we have learned from history that pandemics often last for at least two to three years or even longer. That is precisely the situation we are currently in. On the other hand, the Minister for Migration explicitly stated that the interest of a sentence of expulsion to avoid a medical test was more important than society's ability to execute a sentence of expulsion for, for example, a gross gang-criminal. Fortunately, Madam President, the legislative work is not freely chosen for the government. It is not the Minister for Migration alone that decides which laws apply or do not apply in Sweden. It is up to the democratically elected assembly, that is, the parliament. On 23 June last year we here in Parliament made a decision that a foreigner should be able to be tested forcefully for example covid-19 so that a decision on expulsion can be enforced. The Parliament also urged the government to return with the necessary legislative changes to ensure that the police were given the opportunity to execute expulsion decisions. Yet nothing has happened, Madam President. The government has literally sat on its hands in the matter. On the basis of the answer given today by the current Minister for Migration, it also seems to be continuing to sit. The pandemic has continued. Criminals and others to be expelled or rejected have continued to put in a system to refuse a covid test. People in my hometown of Gothenburg, who work in different ways within the legal chain and with whom I have been in contact, now state that the execution of expulsions to certain parts is completely shot in the sand with the government's passivity. That is, of course, totally unacceptable. If we are to have a working migration policy, then a yes should be a yes and a no should be a no. The person who has been refused the application shall not be able to choose to remain by refusing to take a PCR test. Perhaps more importantly, Madam President, if we are to have a functioning criminal policy, then the sentences imposed will also be enforceable. Criminals sentenced to deportation should also not be able to choose to remain by simply refusing to take a PCR test. However, that is the situation we have today. Therefore, I would like to ask the current Minister for Migration if he shares his predecessor's view that the interest of a sentenced person in avoiding a medical test is more important and outweighs society's ability to execute an expulsion sentence in cases of serious violent crime, for example. Otherwise, why not choose to follow the Riksdag's decision to make the necessary legislative changes as soon as possible?
i-JyV76o9516TNrkquHJH9mg	Madam President, I would like Thank you to David Josefsson for the questions! I shall begin with a basic description that may be useful for those who may be listening to this interpellation debate. The fact that the expulsions have gone down over the last two years is not because people have refused to test themselves to any great extent, but the big reason why it has been difficult to expel people is that there have not been airplanes during this time. It is also very much the case that those countries that have made covidtests as requirements are countries that have also previously refused to accept their citizens. Even to those countries, we have – to a very small extent but still – succeeded in expelling people. Then I would like to agree with David Josefsson on two points: a yes should be a yes and a no should be a no, and for those who receive a no or are sentenced to expulsion, the expulsion should be possible. This government is working at a high rate to forcefully increase the number of people who can be deported because of crime and to increase return. It's happening all over the line. This is done through assignments to the Migration Agency and assignments to the police, i.e. government control. This is done through the assignment to Statskontoret that Statskontoret will report during the day. The whole return policy – or work on return – has been reviewed, not the return policy. A number of initiatives will also be presented in this area. The problem with forced covidtest is that it risks colliding with the Swedish constitution. That is why this work takes a little longer than might seem desirable. But the Riksdag has made an announcement, and of course the government plans to take that announcement further.
i-87QfdvFAQMUCn3LWxeMBU8	Madam President, I would like Magdalena Andersson has said several times since she was elected, both as party leader and prime minister, that she wants to turn all the stones around to deal with organised crime. At the same time, we stand here, two years into a pandemic, with a wide-open gap in the law that allows the sentenced gang criminals to stay in Sweden by simply refusing a PCR test. A year ago, the current Minister for Migration seemed to believe that the pandemic was of a transitory nature. Now, with the omikrona variant ravaging society, we can note that demands for current PCR tests will probably be required for a long time to come to be admitted in several countries around the world. Recent events, including the arrest of a person with an expulsion order in connection with his or her cleaning up the Prime Minister's residence, also show the importance of dealing with the shadow society – a shadow society that has arisen when people who have been refused their asylum application still remain in the country. Shadow society was a problem even before the pandemic. The fact that you can refuse expulsion by refusing to test yourself for covid has not made the problem any less. Again, for us Moderates – and the Government says he agrees – it is important that migration policy is clear. A yes should be a yes, and a no should be a no. Madam President, I would like For those who do not want to be tested for ethical or medical reasons, there is, of course, a choice. You can choose to leave Sweden voluntarily if you have received a negative decision on your asylum application or have been sentenced to expulsion after serving a sentence. What is described as a coercive measure is therefore only if you choose to oppose a court decision. If the government were really serious about turning all the stones to deal with serious organized crime, this gap would have been closed as soon as possible. However, two years after the outbreak of the pandemic, no action has yet been taken. It seems to be one thing what the Prime Minister says and another thing what her ministers do. The Government also states in its reply that there are constitutional aspects to the matter and that it must therefore be carefully considered. That is true, Madam President, but the fact that there are constitutional aspects is not a reason to sit on your hands. On the contrary, the fact that there is a risk that a minority in the Riksdag will choose to use the tools available to delay the process is a reason to work on the matter without undue delay. Nor is it the case that the government's legislative work is freely chosen work. Parliament has made a clear announcement to the government, but so far the government has chosen not to put proposals on it. Finally, my interpretation of why one chooses to act in this way can only become one: that the government believes that the interest of a convicted criminal in avoiding a medical test is more important and outweighs society's interest in executing an expulsion decision. We are not in agreement with the government.
i-8eMmqZFPsuwnfbVga9wp5d	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, David Josefsson is now fooling around, because he knows very well that there is a constitutional obligation to prepare. If you are to be able to make a proposal, you must first have the preparation basis, and to get the preparation basis you have to do quite a lot of work before then. The government has prepared this question and is twisting and turning it around. If there is to be a change and if there is to be a change, then it must be compatible with the Swedish constitution. Otherwise, there'll be only one blow in the air. When David Josefsson talks about the shadow society, it may be worth recalling what has contributed most to the shadow society we see, namely the world's most liberal legislation for labour migration, which allows anyone anywhere in the world to seek and get any job in Sweden. Cleaning staff brought David Josefsson up. Although we have hundreds of thousands of unemployed in Sweden and it should be possible for several of them to either take a cleaning job or with a shorter education take a cleaning job, the door is wide open for people from any part of the world to come here and clean. People who are being ruthlessly exploited. People living under slave-like conditions. Now we're gonna fix what the Moderates did. Let's tighten up the rules on labour immigration. Now it will require binding employment contracts to come to Sweden. Now we will make it considerably more difficult if not impossible to come to Sweden as unqualified labour immigrants and exploited under slave-like conditions. I hope that the Moderates have reconsidered and will support these proposals in Parliament. We will also return to the Riksdag with how we will deal with the announcement made by the Riksdag, which has been expressed today by David Josefsson.
i-UuiRSYs42jmLhsarX8TFkF	Madam President, I would like First, the Prime Minister accuses me of fooling around, and then he says it was all the fault of the alliance government. It is true that there is a need for reconstitution. This issue has been on the table for two years. That's when the pandemic broke out. The announcement was addressed last June. There has been plenty of time for preparation, but the Government can still not even give information about when a bill could come and just says that it is something that is handled within the Government Office. Madam President, it is clear that the rhetoric of the Social Democratic Ministers is tough on criminals. Stones are to be turned, and gangs are to be crushed. It has been said several times. But in reality, it is the interests of criminals that are put before the interests of society. I note that everything points to the fact that with this government at the helm, the holes around PCR tests and expulsions will not be clogged. Anyone who has received an expulsion decision will be able to stop an expulsion in Magdalena Andersson's and Anders Ygeman's Sweden, simply by choosing not to do a PCR test. It is clearly one thing what the government says and another thing what it does. But what the government wants and thinks we can really leave behind. The shocking thing is that the government therefore also chooses to go against the decisions of the elected legislature. Legislative work is not freely chosen work. The fact that legislative work requires careful consideration from a constitutional point of view does not mean that legislative work is completely impossible or takes a long time. There is simply no excuse for the government to sit on its hands on this issue. Thank you, Minister, for the debate.
i-GvLjkqkbF9WKc2q6XE62T9	Madam President, I would like I note that, despite his alleged passion for shadow society, David Josefsson did not mention by a syllable the world's most liberal labour migration, which came about under the moderate-led government. I see why. This is where the shadow community has sprouted and grown. There are more examples. EBO, another of the moderate reforms that were carried out, makes us see how our vulnerable areas are being filled with an increasing number of people with poor chances of coping, which has made integration more difficult. David Josefsson and the Moderates have a great homework to do. Perhaps we Social Democrats have that in part too. But unlike the Moderates, we are also doing our homework. We turn over every stone, and we'll make sure to break the segregation and break the gangs. I hope that David Josefsson and the Moderates will vote in favour of the proposals that will be put on the table of Parliament.
i-79RQ8GSq7YerGDRKA22XjE	Madam President, I would like David Josefsson has asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether the Minister and the Government are prepared, like other countries, to act and put the Olympics in China in diplomatic boycotts. Hampus Hagman has asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether Sweden, like several other democratic countries, will implement a diplomatic boycott of the upcoming Winter Olympic Games in Beijing. The work within the government is so divided that it is I who should answer the interpellations. I would first like to point out that the Foreign Minister has pointed out that the government takes the human rights situation in China seriously, including the situation in Xinjiang and Hong Kong. We regularly address human rights in our contacts with Chinese government representatives as well as in international contexts, such as the UN Human Rights Council. The Olympic Games are a tribute to sport. I am therefore pleased that Swedish athletes participate in the Winter Olympics in Beijing. I wish them every success in the competitions. The pandemic is still going on and affecting us all. Because of the pandemic, the Swedish government intends not to attend the Winter Olympics in Beijing, just as it does at the Summer Olympics in Tokyo.
i-TRurgrk3cujYGT8qEQ8YMm	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The Winter Olympics will be inaugurated in Beijing on 4 February. This is happening at the same time as the Chinese regime is becoming increasingly authoritarian towards its own population and increasingly aggressive towards the outside world. In December, attention was paid to the case of tennis player Shuai Shuai, who accused a top politician of sexual harassment and then kidnapped by the authorities and disappeared, and then returned in various clearly directed contexts where she withdrew her charges. More and more reports also show that the abuse of the Muslim minority in Xinjiang has intensified in recent years. These are abuses that now affect at least 1 million people. In Hong Kong, freedom of expression is curtailed when news media after news medium is extinguished or converted into propaganda agencies. At the same time, democratic elections are being made impossible. In the South China Sea and around Taiwan, Chinese combat aircraft and Chinese warships are increasingly aggressive. Madam President, I would like A few years ago, 2015, Swedish citizen Gui Minhai was kidnapped in Thailand and shortly thereafter performed in a directed play in Chinese media. Two years ago he was sentenced to ten years' imprisonment in a trial that the Swedish Embassy was not even allowed to attend. In response to China's increasingly flagrant abuse, several countries, led by the United States, Australia and Great Britain, have announced that they will boycott the Olympic Games diplomatically. So no official representatives of the country or government will be there. This is important to point out: this interpellation debate is not about a sporting boycott of the Olympics. That our winter athletes will participate in the Olympic Games and fight for Swedish medals nobody questions. The debate is about whether official representatives of Sweden should visit the Olympic Games and thus support the Chinese regime's ability to use the games for propaganda purposes, or whether we should use the games as an opportunity to make a diplomatic statement against China that their behaviour is not acceptable. It is not acceptable for Chinese citizens like Shuai Shuai. That is not acceptable as far as the abuse in Xinjiang or Hong Kong is concerned. It is not acceptable for Swedish citizens like Gui Minhai. And that is not acceptable in terms of aggression in the South China Sea or against Taiwan. Madam President, I would like The Government now says that representatives of the Swedish Government do not intend to go to Beijing but that it is due to the pandemic situation, and he compares with the Olympic Games in Tokyo. That answer, of course, raises a number of supplementary questions. A diplomatic boycott is an important signal to both the Chinese regime and the rest of the world about how Sweden views the regime's abuse of both its own and our citizens. I would therefore like to ask the Government: what makes the Government and the Government choose not to join a diplomatic boycott? What are the props that the Government thinks are required for Sweden to resort to further diplomatic measures but which are now not fulfilled? Are there any other diplomatic measures that the Government believes are more appropriate to mark against the Chinese regime, and what measures are there in that case? Or does the Government believe that the situation is such that Sweden does not need to mark further with diplomacy towards China?
i-J4mcM2Vchgc8dCuRdhEfbC	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. On the government website it is possible to read about a bet called Drive for Democracy. We can read that Sweden should stand up for democratic principles in all contexts and criticise democratic deficits. Furthermore, we can read that the democratic perspective will permeate the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and all foreign policy. On the page swedenabroad.se it can be read that Sweden will do everything possible to be a strong voice and actor for democratic development in the world. We will work intensively over the coming years to provide much-needed support to democratic institutions, processes and defenders. These texts were published in the winter of 2019 and 2020, and in the foreign declaration that same winter, the Foreign Minister highlighted the initiative and spoke of alliances being built with like-minded countries. When the forthcoming Winter Olympic Games are to be held in a country that is not only suffering from a democratic deficit, but actually has to be classified as one of the world's worst dictatorships, a number of like-minded countries, including Australia, Lithuania, Britain and the United States, have declared that a diplomatic boycott is being carried out. In light of the government's texts and words, one could think that Sweden would follow these countries – one could even think that Sweden would like to wear the leadership shirt. But Sweden does not. Last Monday Anders Ygeman announced in an interview available on SVT that the government is not going to the Olympics in Beijing, but this is not a diplomatic boycott; the reason is the Corona situation in the world. Thus, the government chose not only to refrain from marking. They chose not to mark. We have heard the Minister say that the government regularly deals with human rights in contact with Chinese government representatives. I hope so – anything else would be a scandal, Madam President. But that is not enough. The government website says that Sweden's criticism should be heard. But what the government says in contact with Chinese government representatives is not heard. The democrats need to see and hear our criticism of China. Other democracies around the world need to see and hear our criticism of China. I have a number of supplementary questions for the government on the basis of the answer that has been given today. First of all, I would like to ask why the government points out that the same is true now as was the case at the Summer Olympics in Tokyo. Does the government really see no difference between democracy Japan and dictatorship China? If there were not pandemics, would there really not be any justification for differences in response to these countries? Furthermore, I wonder what success the government has had in the contacts with Chinese government representatives that Anders Ygeman is talking about. Finally, on the subject of the government's talk about building alliances with like-minded countries for democracy, I would like to ask the Minister: how is the ability to build these alliances affected by the fact that we in Sweden mark that we do not participate in a diplomatic boycott?
i-Q74MURaTegMCjfLjcKFE7t	Madam President, I would like The first question is, of course, whether Swedish active people should participate in games or sports competitions that take place in countries where democracy is lacking or dictatorship exists or where there is systematic abuse of human rights. This is for the active and their covenant to decide for themselves. The second question is: If there is such a competition and Swedish athletes participate, will the Swedish government be there to support the athletes in their performance? It's in the capacity I was supposed to go as a sports minister. So the question is simply whether dictatorship in a country should prevent the Swedish Government from supporting Swedish athletes, and my principal answer to that question is no. I believe that we should not allow dictatorships to prevent us from supporting Swedish athletes and Swedish sports achievements. The next question is whether or not to go to China, and yet there seems to be a consensus among the three of us that I am not going to China. However, the interpellants Hampus Hagman and David Josefsson wish me to give other reasons not to go to China. Of course, that can always be considered. I think we are in complete agreement on China. I also believe that we fully agree that we should take every opportunity and opportunity to express our criticism of the Chinese regime and of Chinese abuse. I would also like to take this opportunity to put a question to Hampus Hagman and David Josefsson, because you have a rather high voice here in the debate. My question back is simply: do you have your parties behind you? Do the Moderates and Christian Democrats wish either that we should not participate in the games or that we should have a diplomatic boycott against games and this kind of arrangement? It would be interesting for the House to hear this. If you do not have your parties behind you, I hope that you will also have this discussion in your own parties. I think with this I answered at least most of the questions asked by Hampus Hagman and David Josefsson. That's a lot of people.
i-YZ5qksPoYynyreM2onjYyD	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the answer, I too do not think that the Council of State answered any of my questions about the diplomatic relationship between Sweden and China and what measures he thought were needed. Minister for Sport Anders Ygeman says that we all agree in our view of China. I don't think we agree on China because we're talking about diplomatic boycotts while Anders Ygeman doesn't. Anders Ygeman is talking about a sporting boycott, and we are absolutely all in agreement there. No one has proposed a sporting boycott. What we are asking is: is the government prepared to join the rest of the free world in a diplomatic boycott? When our foreign policy spokesperson in the Moderates Hans Wallmark was asked, he said that he would support such an initiative in the immediate future if the government took it. We have our parties behind us. But obviously Anders Ygeman and his party disagree. Madam President, I would like When I listen to the Minister for Sport, my interpretation is that the government had hoped to fly under the radar on this issue. I think the government itself realizes that in a few weeks' time the Winter Olympics will be a propaganda performance like the Olympic Games in Beijing in 2008. Some human rights organisations have even drawn parallels between the Olympic Games in Berlin in 1936 and this year's winter game, based on the political context with a regime that wants to show itself in all its glory to the outside world and to its own population. It is reasonable that neither Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson, Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde or even Minister for Sport Anders Ygeman should be there. At the same time, it is obvious that this issue is sensitive. I cannot interpret it otherwise when the Minister for Foreign Affairs sends the Minister for Sport to the House to debate two interpellations about Sweden's diplomatic relationship with China. The government is trying to land in a classic Swedish compromise: You don't want to be mixed with the Chinese propaganda machine at this point, but you don't want to risk pissing off the Chinese regime either. That is why there is no clear position. There will be no official representative travelling, but when the question is raised at its head as it is here today, it is the pandemic to which the Government refers. Madam President, I would like There are several concerns about that position. Perhaps the most obvious thing is that you don't take a stand. But it still becomes a position in itself, as Hampus Hagman pointed out earlier, because when more and more countries announce that they will boycott the Olympic Games in Beijing, it stands out when countries like Sweden choose not to. When you do not want to offend the Chinese regime, you also sidestep the position of the free world. Let me repeat my questions: what makes the government choose not to join a diplomatic boycott? Unless kidnapping of Swedish citizens, kidnapping of women who claim to have been subjected to sexual abuse, attacks on free speech and democracy in Hong Kong and abuse of millions of people in Xinjiang is enough for Sweden to boycott the Olympics diplomatically, what is required for Sweden to sharpen its tone against China?
i-TjdKfbrPgAERjjzt835qwP	Madam President, I would like I, too, can respond clearly to the question put by the Government. The Christian Democrats support a diplomatic boycott of the Beijing Olympic Games. We have our parties behind us, both me and David Josefsson. We have asked the Foreign Minister questions about a diplomatic boycott of the Beijing Olympics. We have not asked questions about whether the government is rooting for Swedish athletes in the competitions. I say this because it is possible to do both things at the same time. It's going perfectly well. When the White House press secretary told us about the US diplomatic boycott, she also noted that Team USA, as they say, has the full support of the White House. There's no contradiction here. I think it is a betrayal of the democracy movement in China, to the extent that it exists, and democracy activists around the world to pretend that there is a contradiction. A diplomatic boycott would have been a very important mark. It would have been a signal to the Uighurs and to democracy fighters in Hong Kong that Sweden sees them and stands by their side. It is worth fighting for human rights. It would have been a signal to our friends, countries such as Australia and Lithuania, who are under severe economic pressure from China, that we are side by side with them. It would have been a signal to Sweden's citizens that we do not participate in propaganda shows with one of the world's worst dictatorships. Finally, it would have been a signal to the dictatorship. We stand for human rights. We stand for democracy. We are not prepared to take part in shows with those who violate these fundamental rights. There are limits, and these have been crossed a long time ago. If the government really does not believe in joining our friends and carrying out a diplomatic boycott, there would have been far better ways to go about this. The German Government, like the Swedish Government, has chosen not to go nor to make a diplomatic boycott. I think, of course, that the German Government has come to the wrong conclusion, but it is nevertheless worth noting that, when they announced this, they made strong criticism of China and talked about pushing to stop the import of goods made by forced workers in Xinjiang in particular. Here we have a marked difference between the Swedish Government and the German Government. Instead of direct criticism of China, the Swedish Government emphasises that it is acting in exactly the same way now as it did at the Summer Olympics in Tokyo. I didn't get an answer to any of my questions either. Is there really no difference between democracy Japan and dictatorship China? Had there really been no justification for differences in the way these countries are treated? What has been the government's success in contacts with government representatives? I asked that question, too. Nor was it answered. How is the ability to build alliances with our like-minded people affected by the fact that Sweden does not participate in a diplomatic boycott?
i-8pKj4YgCJNnGLe6HgPmUdm	Madam President, I would like First I turn to Hampus Hagman. I criticised China when I gave that message. You may have read some media task where it has been missing, but I did. There is no difference between Sweden and Germany in that regard. This is also evident from the interpellation response that I read to the House earlier and which Hampus Hagman has had the opportunity to take note of before. There are, of course, major differences between China and Japan. The similarity that exists is that we had covid during the games in Japan and that we have covid during the games in China. That is what is meant in that sense, nothing else. I also think Hampus Hagman understands that. That is why I did not answer the rhetorical question, as I understood it. I will not take part in any propaganda stunts, as Hampus Hagman and David Samuelsson are trying to make it sound like. That is a question we can leave behind. I will not go to Beijing, and I have explained the reasons for it. But, Madam President, it will be a little interesting with these loud voices from Hampus Hagman and David Samuelsson, who have all their parties behind them. This is not the first time that the Olympic Games have been held in China, in Beijing. It was the last time the Christian Democrats and the Moderates were in government. Then, of course, they chose to participate in the games. You went there. With your rhetoric, you could call it participation in the propagandajippo for the regime. I would like to read a quote from the then sports minister, Lena Adelsohn Liljeroth, the Moderates: No Swedish boycott has ever been up to date. The Swedish government's line has always been that it is better to be in place in China. That's what it sounds like when the Moderates and Christian Democrats are in government.
i-UWPANh5Q9PaGFbRTv9ha9h	Madam President, I would like The Government advised a member of a previous interpellation debate that the names are here. If there are several interpellants you can always read on the screen if you have problems with names. First of all, I think that the big difference between the 2008 Olympics and the Olympics this year is that a great deal has happened in China in 14 years. That is exactly what we are trying to highlight in this interpellation debate. Only what has happened in recent months raises the issue of a diplomatic boycott. I am thinking, among other things, of what has happened in Hong Kong and in Xinjiang and with Shuai Shuai, who was kidnapped in December. I think that this debate, Madam President, is quite speaking for the inability of the Social Democrats to take a stand on foreign policy. Although the interpellation is about Sweden's diplomatic relationship with China and whether we should diplomatically boycott the Olympics in Beijing, the Minister for Foreign Affairs sends the Minister for Sport to respond. And when the question of a diplomatic boycott is raised, the Minister for Sport refers to the pandemic. In the choice between standing behind the US's democratically elected President Joe Biden or the authoritarian Xi Jinping, Ann Linde does not want to take the debate, and Anders Ygeman does not want to take a stand. Sweden, and especially Ann Linde and Anders Ygeman, are thus at risk of falling on the wrong side of history, but they are also at risk of falling on the wrong side of geopolitics. When the free world's players mark against the Beijing regime, Sweden wants to balance on a slender line. You could have chosen to mark against the Beijing regime together with Joe Biden, but you choose not to. I think, Madam President, that Sweden should be a beacon for democracy, freedom of expression and human rights in the world. But we don't have a foreign minister who wants to be. We don't even have a sports minister who wants to be. With that, I should like to thank you for this debate, Madam President.
i-PmSVX8MZz2ghrCro8i865j	Madam President, I would like As David Josefsson said, a great deal has happened in the world since Adelsohn Liljeroth was Minister of Sport 14 years ago. The Prime Minister has said that stones should be turned around in the Government Office. I suggest that the Minister for Sport reverses the stone under which the news has been reported. The government's attitude to the question of a diplomatic boycott is a betrayal. It's a huge betrayal. There are a number of reasons for doing this. China, as I said, is one of the world's worst dictatorships. The regime systematically violates human rights and freedoms. The persecution of ethnic minorities is on the increase. Uighurs are discriminated against, detained and put in detention camps, where they are subjected to forced labour, torture and sterilisation. The regime has ignored the international agreements on Hong Kong and dismantled democracy there. People who stand up for their most fundamental rights are imprisoned. Chinese fighter aircraft regularly threaten democracy in Taiwan. If more reasons are needed, the kidnapping of Swedish citizen Gui Minhai is one. The threats to Swedish politicians and to Swedish journalists are further reasons. If there are even more reasons, I can say that the head of Säpo in a press release published on Monday says that China, among other things, is one of the biggest threats and that in recent years they have intensified their security-threatening activities. Madam President, I would like The list of reasons for implementing a diplomatic boycott of Beijing-OS is actually limited only by speaking time in this House.
i-w2P6cCEpggq8PFWayMkim	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to apologise to David Josefsson for calling him Samuelsson. I'm sorry about that. That was wrong. Unfortunately, there is only one name here, but I should still have known that David Josefsson is David Josefsson and nothing else. I apologize for this. On the other hand, Madam President, there is something very false about this discussion. When the Moderates and Christian Democrats are in government, the only real thing is to go to Beijing and participate with pomp and glory. And when the Moderates and Christian Democrats are in opposition, it is wrong to be at home from the games in Beijing for giving the wrong reasons. You haven't even been able to follow the whole report in the press. Even more false, Madam President, when it is said that 2008, that was a long time ago. In the post before said Hampus Hagman : For a long time you should have done this. But obviously it wasn't as far back as 2008. Nevertheless, let me say for the benefit of the House that the Chinese revolution and the one-party state were created in 1949. It is 59 years before the moderate and Christian-Democracy government chose to send its Minister for Sport to China to join and, in your own words, legitimise the democratic dictatorship. Perhaps a little more stringency could have been desired by two parties who aspire to the government.
i-Lru5KuG4LL89gGpPTEXpWe	Madam President, I would like Mr Arin has asked me whether I intend to take any initiatives to proceed with any of the proposals put forward by the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats in a debate article. He has also asked whether I intend to take any initiatives to stop the possibility of so-called track changes. Many of the problems with the Swedish labour immigration system were created by the Moderates. By allowing labour migration in occupations where there is no shortage of labour, the moderate-led government opened up a wide-ranging abuse of the system. The Labour Immigration Report, which completed its mission last November, notes that the problems of abuse are significant and very serious. These include wage dumping, serious economic crime and human exploitation. The abuse of the system also poses a threat to healthy competition in all sectors where it exists. The government has therefore proposed measures to strengthen labour immigration rules. These include the introduction of binding employment contracts, increased monitoring of employment conditions and a dependency requirement for migrant workers who want to bring their family to Sweden. These are important steps to overcome the problems we see with the abuse of the system and the exploitation of foreign workers. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to point out that it was the Moderates who introduced the possibility of so-called track changes. I note that the government will present more proposals for changes to the framework for labour immigration during this year.
i-9GTB4TBT1EqtYLTzBCKtbc	Madam President, I would like In my interpellation, I mention seven concrete proposals in addition to further proposals in the text. When I read the interpellation response, it feels like going back to younger days. I'm not that old, but I've been in a youth union like Minister Anders Ygeman. The answer here is roughly at that level: instead of talking about the subject matter, there will be a history of whose fault it was and who introduced it – as if nothing has happened to this day. I also note that the Government is a little belligerent. It's Friday; he's in a good mood. But I hope that we can also have a good and objective debate. It is true that it was the alliance government that liberalised labour immigration. There was a reason for this, because it was virtually impossible to come to Sweden if you were not an asylum seeker. There were just a few who had the opportunity to come and work in Sweden. We see this in relation to today's integration problems when it comes precisely to the group of asylum seekers. Labour force participation is very low. The problems of integration are great. Nor can we say that there are no problems when it comes to work-related immigration. That's why we've done our homework. But it's been seven years. We are in the eighth year when the Moderates are not in government. The Moderate Coalition Party has now put forward concrete proposals on how different parties together in this House can ensure that the Swedish labour market is in order. Then perhaps this is not the time for a history description of who implemented the current legislation. Those who have been in power and put forward proposals to the House are, of course, the government, and as I know it is the Social Democrats who have been in government power for almost eight years. We're in the eighth year. Madam President, I would like It's about stopping the skills demonstrations. Should hardworking immigrants who choose to come to Sweden and pay taxes be expelled because they may have missed a holiday day or that the employer has paid out a few crowns in incorrect payments? Should they be expelled at the same time as we have people who commit serious crimes, such as rape and the like, but who are not expelled but are allowed to stay in Sweden for other reasons after they have been punished? It is also about stopping labour migration where there are cheating and abuse, for example in low-wage jobs as personal assistants. We also need an increased wage requirement. Madam President, I would like These are the issues I would like to discuss with the Government. How can we ensure that authorities can remove confidentiality barriers so that they do not have to carry out workplace inspections together and can exchange classified information directly with each other? We know it's resource-intensive. Another example is to remove the possibility of track change. I welcome the Government to a real debate instead of talking history descriptions and the like.
i-9p57q6oacQJhwCuPdS5h3h	Madam President, I would like Arin Karapet says that the reason why the Moderates presented the disastrous order we have today in Sweden was that there were too few to Sweden. But the reason why there were few labour immigrants to Sweden was that we had a labour test. Therefore, we could not get people as personal assistants, cleaners or dishwashers to Sweden, because there was plenty of labor in Sweden. That test demolished the Moderates. Mr Arin then says that the Social Democrats have been in charge for eight years and could have changed this. But the problem, Madam President, is that the Moderates have prevented it. For most of this time, the Moderates have voted down the proposals that have been put forward to sort things out in this situation. This can be seen in the committee report after the committee report. For example, Elisabeth Svantesson has been very critical of the Social Democrats who have dared to question the proposals that the Moderates pushed through. So to the proposals that Mr Arin would rather discuss - fine with me! In principle, all the proposals raised by Mr Arin are proposals from some investigation that the government has set up. Some of the proposals have already been put forward, for example to stop the exclusion of skills. We also call for binding requirements on employment contracts, increased controls and supply requirements for migrant workers. The demands that we have not yet made are the subject of a referral from the investigation. The referral period expires on 6 February, so when we have received the referrals, I will of course also come back to them. However, I can say so much that I see in front of me that we will go forward with the bulk of the proposals that the investigation has put forward.
i-DBXpEWLBNHdgNW7UgFkbxf	Madam President, I would like In the 2014 elections, the Moderates received 23 – 24 per cent, and in 2018 we reversed to approximately 19.5 per cent. The Moderates do not have a majority in this House. Neither do the Social Democrats. Madam President, I would like The reason why the Social Democrats have not gone forward with these legislative proposals and not raised the tone until now is that they have been sitting in the Government Office together with the Green Party. Now that you've decoupled yourself from the Green Party - Ojojoy! Then it's harder! It's harder on gang crime. Suddenly you're in favour of nuclear power. Now you're gonna screw up and turn over every stone. This should have been done 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021 – not when it's election year. If the Government comes up with more stringent demands to regulate labour immigration, I welcome that. What I would like to remind the Government is that the Social Democrats do not have a majority in the Swedish Parliament. If you are to get a bill passed, you must instead come to the parliament of Sweden and negotiate with the parties you are closest to on these issues. It's us, it's the Christian Democrats and it's the Swedish Democrats, and this is Minister Anders Ygeman very aware of. Of course, the government will put forward a proposal, but it will obviously be negotiated in committee. We have presented the proposals raised in inter alia the interpellation and the debate article to which I referred. It's somewhere about making sure to move from words to actions—we need to have increased wage demands– but also about ensuring that authorities can talk to each other. I am not going to go into the debate on the Prime Minister and immerse myself in that discussion, but it may be that the Tax Agency has monthly received money in a tax account but that, since their system does not talk directly to the Migration Agency, they have not received a signal that they have an expulsion decision. With the systems not talking to each other because there are confidentiality barriers – as the Prime Minister said in Swedish Radio, this requires that the authorities together carry out a workplace inspection, but this has not happened at this company – there is also no signal to the border police for it to be able to execute the expulsion decision. This shows what our shadow society looks like. It is therefore better for the government to put forward a proposal that is accepted in committee, that is to say that the Social Democrats can gain a majority in committee together with the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. But then it is also a matter of being a little humble and wanting to resolve the issue. The Government also referred to the possibility of a track change. It is no secret that the Social Democrats want to remove that possibility, but the reason why it was not removed is something called the January Agreement. After all, the Center Party is in favour of maintaining the change of track, and the Center Party and the Green Party were those who opposed increased wage demands. But the January agreement is not there, and now we are going into an election campaign. However, not everything has to be a battle. Let us agree on this, and on what we do not agree on – let us ask for a match in which voters decide who will run this country after 11 September!
i-2TNeH8pZy22zLf2fXD1erW	Madam President, I would like Politics is a fine art, and Arin Karapet is a good politician. But I wonder if he is trying here to try a masterpiece that at least impresses me: he criticises the government for not rapidly dismantling moderate politics enough – and for not dismantling moderate politics during the time when the Moderates criticized us for it. It is true that my words are a political masterpiece. Arin Karapet asks, why didn't you change this in 2014? Why didn't you change this in 2015? Yes, the answer is: because there was no political majority in Parliament. In 2015, Moderate economic policy spokesperson said that the labour market test was a protectionist labour market policy, Arin Karapet. She criticised us Social Democrats for wanting to change the rules on labour immigration. She said it was a protectionist labour market policy. Now, however, Mr Arin is standing in the speaker's chair and asks: Why did you not do what we strongly opposed that you should change? I still think you'll have to be patient with us, Arin. It took us a few years for us to join the House in order to change the wrong steps taken by the moderate-led government. I shall move on to the proposals. In fact, now it seems that we agree on the majority of them. The Moderates seem to have made a reversal, and I welcome it. We do not have to argue about the time that has been, but we can look forward. It is reasonable that we raise the floor for what to earn if you come to Sweden. It is reasonable that we have binding employment certificates. It is reasonable that you cannot have just a short part-time job. However, I think it would also be reasonable to make the requirement that there should be a need for labour immigration before people come to Sweden, through some form of work trial. If we have tens of thousands of unemployed cleaners in Sweden, why should it be possible to bring a thousand more cleaners here? They then compete for wages and for working conditions, which means that both those who come and those who are already here are in danger of being exploited and living in terrible conditions. That is why I would like to ask Mr Arin: if I could now put forward the proposals that Mr Arin is putting forward, could the Moderates be prepared to restrict labour migration to those activities and sectors where it is really needed? It is about the IT sector and health care, where several labour immigrants are actually doing great work.
i-8hsDAKBfEtH1JtveBpsd3n	Madam President, I would like I take that as a compliment, and it's the first time I've received a compliment from a government minister. So it'll be a memory I'll take with me. Madam President, I would like The Government shows its talent for twisting and turning the debate. He wants it to be about whether the Moderates will be on the condition of labour market testing. I will not conduct the negotiation, but the attitude of the Moderates is that it is better to have a high wage requirement. We will then remove the sectors that the Government addresses, such as the cleaning industry and the like – low-wage jobs where today we have a workforce that does not work but lives on subsidies. You can then get the domestic labour force to do those jobs. However, I shall not prolong this debate. I would like to thank the Government, which has said that the Government will come up with a bill shortly. It will come to committee, and we will turn and turn every stone around. There is a political majority; the only difference now is that the Social Democrats are the only party in government. So it is only Social Democratic ministers who are to sign this proposal before it comes to the House, so there is no need to argue with the Green Party. Hopefully, then, we will have a bill on the table, and we will make our contributions. As the Government knows, there are three parties in the committee that are in agreement, so it will probably be the three parties the government will have to negotiate with. Have a nice weekend!
i-EBGQ3SCz1fs9PcYEK1DPkJ	Madam President, I would like Of course, it was praise for Arin Karapet and nothing else. I would like to thank you for replicating that praise, if I may say so. I see the benefits of raising the salary floor in the way that Arin Karapet and the Moderates express. The problem is that it is not enough to overcome the problems. We see that a great many of those who are exploited under slave-like conditions do not receive the wages on the certificate of employment. It is therefore a good start, but if the problem is to be tackled, I think that some form of labour market testing must also be added. It can be between the parties, or it can be done by an authority. It can happen in many different ways, and I am prepared to discuss with the Moderates how it could be done so that it becomes unbureaucratic and simple. However, I think it would be unfortunate if moderate innovation were to end in the fact that we will still have a large labour migration to sectors with very low skills requirements so that we continue to have a shadow society and people living in slave-like conditions. If, however, the Moderates have begun their innovation and have left Elisabeth Svantesson's rhetoric that we need labour immigration for demographic reasons and a lot of other things – and that it is protectionism to be against labour immigration – I therefore wish that we can cope with the last piece of innovation and see that, unfortunately, even more measures will be needed to tackle the problem of labour immigration.
i-PMawNCiGHf2g3u7UiJn1mk	Madam President, I would like Arin Karapet has asked the Minister for Education Anna Ekström what was the basis for her position to lower the requirements for passing grades in Swedish and also upper secondary school qualifications. The question has been handed over to me. I would like to start by making it clear that there are no proposals on the table to lower the requirements for passing grades in Swedish or for eligibility for the upper secondary school's national programme. I interpret Arin Karapet's question as referring to the notification made in the bill Subject grade – the grades should better reflect students' knowledge (prop. 2021/ 22:36) to review the approved limit and eligibility requirements for national programmes in upper secondary school. The proposal proposes a revised principle for grading that means that teachers should make an overall assessment of students' knowledge in relation to the grading criteria, i.e. that for example a higher level of knowledge in some part can weigh up for a lower level of knowledge in another part, so that the grade can more accurately reflect students' knowledge of the subject. This is proposed for grades A – D but not for the pass level, i.e. grade E. In order for the student to be able to get an approved grade, all requirements for the grade E must be met. The grading study considered whether the amended principle could also apply to grade E. However, the Government considers that the possible consequences of such a change need first to be carefully investigated. Investigating questions about the so-called sharp pass limit and eligibility requirements for upper secondary school is primarily about getting more knowledge about how the education system should work so that all children and young people can learn as much as possible and as adults get a job, be able to support themselves and create a good life. I want a school where knowledge and education are in focus and where each student is met with high expectations and clear demands. I also want a school where exclusion is much smaller than today and where education leads to employment. The obvious goal is that each student should develop as far as possible and that the knowledge results in the Swedish school should continue to improve. As Arin Karapet particularly highlights the Swedish subject in his question, I would like to stress that knowledge of Swedish is a key to education, work and being a part of Swedish society. For this reason, the Government has commissioned the Swedish National Agency for Education to conduct a broad review of the subjects Swedish and Swedish as second language. The mission will be accounted for in spring. Finally, I would like to emphasise that I see that the threshold for passing grades in comprehensive school and the requirements for eligibility for upper secondary school is an area that is associated with difficult balances and that the pros and cons of different alternatives need to be carefully analysed. That's exactly why we need an investigation.
i-3FAVM3StEtnACg7CzcBrEF	Madam President, I would like I would like to welcome Minister Kihlblom to the first debate with me and as a new Minister. I listened to the talk and heard the Minister for Education Anna Ekström open up to or talk about – I am from opposition and want to turn and turn to get to a debate; I will be frank about that – to lower the requirements to get approved and to get qualified for high school. We have had quite a large amount of immigration into Sweden over the last 30 years, Madam President, and it is becoming increasingly clear what it looks like in Swedish school. We have schools where every other student goes out with incomplete grades. We could lower the requirements so that they can be eligible, but what happens to upper secondary school? What kind of education will these individuals receive? There will be a training inflation that will lead to employers not hiring them. We must set higher standards and have high expectations from day one. The requirements for approval are also about getting a high minimum level. Not everyone will get A. I wasn't a student who got A in everything either. I had A in some subjects – or MVG, as it was then called, and VG. I was in the middle. But it is also a question of having a high minimum level. The problems we see in Swedish schools are about lack of order. It's messy. The requirements are low. Those who are knocked out are those who do not have the right conditions from home and those who may not have the ability to take in theoretical knowledge. There are people who are good at theoretical subjects but less well when it comes to practical subjects and vice versa. When it comes to the Swedish language, we in Sweden have not understood how complex it is to learn to speak correctly Swedish and to write in Swedish. If you are born in Sweden, you should be good in the Swedish language. I myself have another native language from my home, but the language I should be best in is actually Swedish. In fact, it is in the Swedish language that I will communicate with my friends. It is in Swedish that I shall take in knowledge in school, and probably Swedish is the working language I will use the most. Now I'm talking about society in general. If you do not have complete knowledge of the Swedish language, you will not take in the knowledge you can get in mathematics classes, in chemistry, in physics, in picture lessons or in any other subject. The government is new, so I'm not going to be hard. I'm gonna have to be a little humble, and there's going to be an election campaign. But can I get some assurance from the Government that the requirements will not be lowered but raised? It is about enabling a class trip – the Swedish equality journey – for those children and young people who do not have Swedish as their mother tongue and who live, live and work in our society so that they can fulfil their dreams and visions and be good citizens of society. In what way will it be ensured that the Swedish language benefits them more than it does in today's Swedish school?
i-8Q7vpqzM8VcLT6PhoW17AN	Madam President, I would like Mr Arin and I could take care of the fact that we are not going to lower any demands; I can assure you that. On the other hand, there is a difference between Mr Arin and me, and it may have to do with ideology and basic vision. Simply raising the bar without increasing opportunities creates exclusion and sorting. We have seen this since 2011, when the Alliance introduced a curriculum that barely even the teachers understood. Many academics have struggled to understand it, and above all it is those who do not have academics for parents who have suffered from it. At the same time, the demands for vocational training were raised, so there are discussions on how to get young people – whether it is Swedish, mathematics, English or other subjects they have not approved in – to acquire vocational training and get into work and self-support. Establishment, then, is the big question. I'd like to ask you, Arin Karapet, if it's so important that we're tough with all the demands for all the professions. The second question I would like to ask is: when expert organisations such as IFAU, OECD and the Swedish National Agency for Education and also experts in suicide research such as Sven Bremberg and Elisabeth Fernell describe the developments we have seen since 2011 and the exclusion from rating systems, would it not be okay to investigate the issue? Is it for a moderate injustice if someone who is very interested in cooking can become a chef without having approved in English? Can you become a sheet metal worker even if you have not approved in Swedish? Is that unfair? Or can we imagine that when you are trained as a chef or a sheet metal worker, you receive extra instruction on the very subjects you did not have access to? It is about tax money going to an education system that gives people the opportunity to create real adult lives. We must understand that some people reach the targets at the age of 12 but others only at the age of 17. The system created by the Alliance led to a great deal of exclusion. You don't get vocational training, you said. That is why we now see an opportunity for criminals to easily recruit young people without vocational training. The school commission, of which I was a member, has put forward a great many proposals. During the spring, we will present several proposals on how we can support those students who have not succeeded, but also on how we can give more students the opportunity to have vocational training, so that they can get a job at an early age.
i-YEEyqn12HhS9kKq4xxH6vR	Madam President, I would like I grew up in one of our suburbs where unfortunately the situation has gotten worse. I do not speak Swedish as my native language, and I learned Swedish before my own parents. Every time my language development progressed, the language developed in the home. I would say that the problems do not begin in the upper part of primary school. We can take a student who was born in Sweden or comes to Sweden at a very young age. It starts early in preschool. For those students who have a foreign background, it is about getting in touch with Swedish society and the Swedish language. Sure – they go to Swedish school and maybe have a teacher who has a Swedish background and speaks Swedish. But it is during a few hours of the day that they come into contact with someone who is Swedish. Otherwise, they come into contact with people with other nationalities or their own nationality, that is, the one they have from their home country. It's about getting the Swedish language into preschool. It's about compulsory language preschool. It's about getting the Swedish language skills, which you don't get at home. That's where the shoe squeezes. We talk about integration, but usually we integrate with other cultures than Swedish culture. Usually they are integrated into other languages than the Swedish language. Therefore, it is more important to have clear and high demands on the Swedish language from day one in preschool and in comprehensive school. It's about equipping students with the right tools. We will then solve many of the problems highlighted by the Minister, such as the fact that they come into high school and want to become a chef or a sheet metal worker. If you get up at a higher age, you might not be able to make up for it. Then perhaps there are other forms of education that can be developed. But it's about the Swedish education system taking out students with foreign background because you don't give the right tools at the right time. Usually, personal examples should not be taken, but sometimes it is good to do so. Politicians should not only be in this House and at party meetings, but also in other parts of society. I can take equations as an example. In Sweden you start with equations in mathematics in sixth, seventh or eighth class– I don't really know. But when I talk to relatives from other countries, I hear that their children start with it much earlier. In Sweden we have had some kind of idea that it creates stress if the children learn too early. I would say that children learn very much in a very short time. It is a question of predictability, of being clear from the adult world and of not having a kindergarten, as it is today. In the Swedish preschool it is today most hope and play. It's very little pedagogy. That's it. Maybe the government can set up an investigation. Many of the children are not eloquent. But in other countries, children can be very eloquent. It is about working with the young people and the children. Then it is also a matter of having a clear attitude. What do we want as a country and as a society, and what school do we want? What measures will the Government take so that more children and young people who have a foreign background and do not have Swedish as their mother tongue can assimilate more Swedish? We need to get away from the situation we are in today, where students are excluded because they have not been given the right tools at the right time. This is built on kindness and not on wanting their best.
i-5ty2Vciq3J9mRC4g59TvpA	Madam President, I would like I'll be happy to hear Arin Karapet. I am now putting forward several proposals which are entirely in his line and which he will be able to vote on. These include higher demands for outreach to bring all children to preschool. Arin Karapet describes the segregated school. We have a hugely unfair school election today. Arin Karapet knows as well as I do that independent schools choose their students. It's not the boys from the suburbs who fit in there. No, it's completely different students. Another thing that we will be making proposals about is that all principals, municipalities, should strive for a comprehensive student composition, so that it is actually possible that all students encounter inequality. As a result, they can also learn the Swedish language and culture. We have a school system that tightens housing segregation, and we have a passivity from the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats on the issue. On the other hand, there are a lot of people who make a lot of money from this. Being able to choose your students is very profitable. No one strives for a comprehensive student composition. It's been removed from the curriculum. We will make a great many suggestions to reduce segregation. What happens in some schools is that all those with education go away. There remain student groups that it is very difficult to handle for teachers, and other cultures are formed. This is why we are also expanding the possibility for the Swedish School Inspectorate to close schools. These are very important reforms in order for us to get to grips with this. I agree with Mr Arin that this is a problem, but I have solutions to the problems. From the Moderate side, I have seen no proposals, except for those relating to more privatisation, more segregation and exclusion and increased demands. There are no proposals for access to vocational training or establishment in society. When even moderate politicians think that the marketing school has done its thing and when even the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise thinks it is time for reforms in this area, perhaps we should take a hand this spring and do something about it. I will have very many proposals in this House to deal with this issue.
i-KdBozae68piUjG6SDu16Xe	Madam President, I would like The reason why my schooling didn't go wrong and that I started to get in touch with Swedish students, that is, students who had one or two parents with Swedish background, was that my mother could change school for me. I didn't have to go to school in Hässelby. She realized that I did not have enough Swedish knowledge and did not follow in the classroom. I was sitting as a question mark. I went to a municipal school and switched to another municipal school, which was located in the inner city. If the Government is interested, we can go to the English School in Kista. There about 90 percent of the students come from this particular area in the west and have a foreign background. They say themselves when the teachers have left the classroom that thanks to the fact that they have started this school, they have not only improved in English but also in Swedish. The students say, "Here's order, we don't chew gum in the classroom, we don't come in with outerwear, it's a mobile ban, the teachers know the name of every student and we have to greet each other." We are being seen, and we are getting away from the chaos in the areas in which we live. Here it is peace and quiet and predictable. Here the grown-ups guide us. ..................................................... Sometimes it's hard, but children prefer security and predictability. There is a commitment between teachers and students. If there are high demands and expectations and students are allowed to grow in this environment, they will reach their full potential. We in the adult world must stop being lax, and I hope that the Minister of Education will come up with higher demands in the Swedish language, including compulsory language preschool from the age of three.
i-UFAc6sgAPvizpPQE1vEeQs	Madam President, I would like It's interesting to hear you talk about the possibility of changing schools, Arin Karapet. Today it is difficult for most people to change schools because many schools are already full because of their queue system. I want a school election system where everyone chooses at the same time so that everyone has the same chance and not just some, with a little luck or priority. I would like to delete this, and I will make such a proposal in the spring that you will be happy to support. It was a little sloppy with the statistics. After six years in Swedish primary school, there is no difference in grade 9 between born in Sweden and born in other countries – according to SCB and all experts. However, educational background and poverty are important factors. It is not about black or light hair, foreign or Swedish background. It is also about some independent schools secretly doing pre-tests on students, having secret queue lists and selecting their students. This is deeply unfair. If you get tax money to run a school, you should do it for everyone and not select some. Above all, you should not be able to send money away in profit or send it abroad to build new schools that you can earn even more money from. It's about honesty, morality and justice. That's why I want more school choices but a fair school election. And I'd like to see more independent schools spending their money on teaching.
i-HN2yjg2sKX9X6Vgq4aC56z	Madam President, I would like Lotta Olsson has asked me how I intend to act so that the Swedish energy problems will not cause Nordic cooperation problems. I would like to begin by pointing out that the Nordic countries have been conducting a very close, constructive and fruitful energy cooperation within the framework of the Nordic Council of Ministers. Overall dialogue on the development of energy cooperation within the Nordic region is conducted at our annual Nordic Energy Ministerial meetings. The Nordic energy cooperation has for several years focused mainly on the development of the Nordic electricity market, energy efficiency and energy research. For a number of years, the annual Nordic Electricity Market Forum has also been held for the occasion of dialogue between the actors in the Nordic electricity market. The well-functioning Nordic electricity market is often highlighted in international contexts as an example in terms of electricity market integration. The Swedish-Norwegian electricity certification system is also an example of good Nordic energy cooperation. With regard to the Swedish electricity grid, the government is currently working to speed up the grid expansion. The Swedish transmission network needs to be strengthened in order to increase transmission capacity and to reduce variations in electricity prices. Therefore, the Swedish Enterprise's power grids will triple their network investments over the next three years compared with the previous three-year period. As Lotta Olsson points out, the Swedish transmission network is also important for our neighbouring countries, as Sweden is a transit country for electricity. Lower transmission capacity within Sweden and between our neighbours and Sweden therefore affects the entire Nordic region. It is of course worrying that lower transmission capacity coincides with the high energy prices we are currently seeing in Europe. The government is therefore following the situation closely. When it comes to calculating the trading capacity for transmission between Sweden and our Nordic neighbours, this is an issue for which the Swedish Companies Agency is responsible and for which the Swedish Energy Market Authority is responsible for monitoring and monitoring compliance with the applicable rules.
i-5S9KXqEbfZgB4NGMf1xK8U	Madam President, I would like Welcome, Minister Khashayar Farmanbar! Nordic energy cooperation is important. The Swedish electricity infrastructure is not just a highway for the Swedish electricity supply. It is also a motorway for the Nordic countries, mainly Norway and Finland. There is cooperation between the Nordic countries in the transfer of electrical energy when needed. Transporting energy in our electricity grids is also a crucial function for our neighbours. Now, in the wake of the electricity crisis, there have been reports that Swedish power networks have strangled the supply of electricity to Norway and other Nordic countries. This means that the good cooperation needed for us to be able to together cover ups and downs in production may be threatened. In its reply, the Government points out that there is good cooperation at ministerial level, but it does not help to overcome the conflicts that may result from an imbalance in the Swedish electricity system in the long term and which may restrict the transfer to our Nordic neighbours. Madam President, I would like It is not self-evident that neighbouring countries, apart from providing their own electricity supply, want to pay the price for Sweden choosing to bring forward the decommissioning of nuclear power and to restructure its electricity system. For however forward-looking one may think it is with the green revolution, Swedish, Norwegian and Finnish everyday life must work. The Swedish ambition for the new fossil-free society is a challenge for Sweden, and the government and to some extent the Riksdag have decided to accept this challenge. That is good, even if the government, like an ostrich, refuses to see how big the challenge actually is. However, our Nordic neighbours do not expect Sweden's green revolution to put a restraint on their electricity supply. My question is based on the answer I have received from the Government about the Nordic electricity cooperation, and how it should work, have been involved in the planning of energy policy at all, or just as with the electricity supply it has become as it has been. Norway and Finland should not have to suffer because Sweden does not manage its electricity supply due to poorly forward-looking policies. Madam President, I would like You should always treat your neighbors with respect. This applies where you live and also between countries. Especially in troubled times like this, it is especially important to nurture your good collaborations. I believe that Sweden will not do so if we argue with the stubbornness of a fool that we do not have problems with our electricity system, because we do. Madam President, I would like No, see the problems as they are and see the enormous challenge of so radically changing a country's energy supply as it is now. Be sensitive to the problems that arise, and try to find solutions that can also benefit our neighbours. Only those with good neighbourliness can feel safe.
i-JmVenbxwcKLPvEvrZq3mNc	Madam President, I would like I agree with Lotta Olsson on the importance of good cooperation with our Nordic neighbours. In the field of energy, we have been working closely and constructively together for several years. The basis for our cooperation is the Nordic countries' ambitious goals in the energy and climate area. Central to Nordic energy cooperation is the common Nordic electricity market. We also collaborate through various Nordic energy research projects, and we have an active dialogue on development, technology and renewable energy. In the field of renewables in particular, we have an excellent opportunity to complement each other through varying conditions and experiences with regard to different technologies. Madam President, I would like Let me briefly touch on what Lotta Olsson mentioned about nuclear power. As the Parliament is well aware, an excise duty on nuclear power was introduced in 2000. It was not abolished under two bourgeois governments, but remained under their rule. It was only under a Social Democratic-led government, which came to Parliament with a budget bill in 2016, that the excise duty on nuclear power was abolished. For a number of years now, there has been a level playing field between nuclear power and wind power from this perspective. The Riksdag knows that, of course. I believe that Parliament is also fully aware that the closures of two out of four reactors in recent times have been entirely market driven by the owners. These are not political decisions. Let me note that if we or the then government had politically forced the owners to keep the nuclear power built in the 1980s, it would have involved enormous costs, which would have ended up somewhere. This would have meant permanently higher electricity prices for Swedish electricity consumers. This is what commercialism means. Let me also say that Sweden has a surplus of electricity generation, although we now see how Russia's actions affect natural gas prices down on the continent in Europe and also how it affects Swedish electricity consumers through the cooperation we have with our neighbours, both the Nordic and the European ones. Swedish power networks have the task of calculating the trading capacity and assigning it to the electricity market. Trading capacity is calculated per hour and bidding zone limit and indicates the maximum megawatt transmission capacity allowed for trading by the market. This calculation is a complex process and the result must respect the operational safety criteria. It is precisely the operational safety criteria that have formed the basis for Svenska Kraftnät's decision on the reductions in trading capacity that have sometimes taken place. This is precisely why Swedish power networks have tripled their investments in electricity grid capacity expansion, because it is this way that creates greater trading space in Sweden. This also applies to the possibilities of trading electricity with our neighbouring countries. Let us not confuse any form of nostalgia with a technology derived from the time when Walkman Walkman was the coolest technology you could have with the modern, robust and renewable energy power of the future. And let's make sure that we can upgrade our electricity grids, just as the government is working for, so that we continue to have good and constructive cooperation with our Nordic neighbours.
i-FutUxvXaA4K5QiMMUWvk2A	Madam President, I would like We have a consensus on some of these things. The fact that we need to upgrade the electricity system is fundamental. We have an electrical system in Sweden that is one of the oldest in the world, because we were early with electric expansion. We need both the old, existing electricity lines, and we also need new ones. In addition, the electricity system is adapted to the fact that we have strong hydro power in the north and strong nuclear power in southern Sweden. Now much of the nuclear power is gone, but the electricity system still looks like it did before. Therefore, major investments will be required. It is also true that the Government claims that we have overproduction of electricity. But with electricity, it's kind of like ice cream. There is really no fresh product as fresh as electricity. It doesn't matter if Åsa and I can get a lot of electricity for our bath tub in the summer if there is no electricity when it freezes in during the winter. If we have a heavy steel industry that constantly demands that there be energy that has a certain capacity, it will not help. These are really pears and apples. Madam President, I would like My ambition is that we should have a good level of these debates, and I hope that, with the background of the Government, we should not get caught up in the fact that what exists intermittently is the same thing as basic energy. If we are to switch our heavy industry and our entire transport sector to electricity supply instead of fossil fuel supply, it will pose huge challenges. Then we can't invest in wind farms, because it's not the days it blows that we have a shortage. It is nuclear or hydropower that applies, unless the Minister has a large battery stock in his back pocket that I do not know about. That could be a solution, and no one would be happier than me. But that's not what it looks like. The fact that wind farms and their infrastructure would solve our problems does not help. It does not help Sweden, it does not help Norway and it does not help Finland either. We need to invest in basic energy. Now, many of the debates will probably go in each other, so let's hope that the audience can cope with repetitions. We see that Germany has removed nuclear power and now dreams of phasing out its coal power. They're in huge trouble. They have to import, and they make themselves dependent on gas. This will have a major impact on prices also in energy areas 3 and 4 when we combine our markets even more in terms of infrastructure. And here we are, and we're supposed to be very competitive. We're a pretty peripheral country. We have large costs in our industry, and our bnp requires twice as much energy in relation to what is required in Germany. So we are even more dependent than Germany and will also be dependent on gas prices. And then we can go into security policy. We may have time for that during this debate. The infrastructure for wind turbines is therefore not helping, but we need to replenish with basic energy. I think the Minister is actually aware of that.
i-ELFEfvq3WkLzhCo2TT2Fnh	Madam President, I would like Let me welcome Lotta Olsson by saying that I like ice cream and that I also like planable electricity, i.e. electricity that works whether it blows or if the sun shines. However, planning is not in itself an energy type. It is not just hydropower or nuclear power that is, by definition, planable, but it is a function of an energy system. For our future energy system, we will need a palette of different solutions. We will continue to see hydropower as the backbone of Swedish energy production. Today it accounts for almost half of our energy production, and it will continue to be the backbone of the future. Today, nuclear energy accounts for about 27% of our energy production. Nuclear power plays an important role and will continue to play an important role. I think that Lotta Olsson and I can agree that Sweden should not go the way that Germany has done and put down nuclear power through premature decisions, but what is happening should be done on a market-based basis. We have also shaken hands on this in the energy agreement, and I look forward to being able to make more agreements with Lotta Olsson's party and other parties. As I was aware, planning is a function of the energy system, and wind power is certainly not planable. It's not always windy, but it's not always windless just everywhere. It will blow in different places at different times, but nonetheless wind power is not planned. But the connection of solar power, wind power and other power generation together with fuel storage, such as hydrogen storage, creates a planning function. I see that it is part of our future energy mix that is a fairly important part. I see that cogeneration plants that supply heat to our households and ensure that we do not need to heat up as many households with electricity but can use other, better methods will be important for how we use our energy. In the same way that we ensure that we try to stop food waste in society, we will have to work on how we manage energy and ensure that we energy efficient households. But we shall also ensure that the industry has both incentives and will and that it actually benefits from implementing energy efficiency improvements. We will also need to review smart grids when using electricity on different occasions. We will, of course, see that nuclear power will play an important role for a while to come. This House has decided that Sweden will have renewable electricity by 2040. I do not intend to come to this House and ask for a new decision on this matter. Let me note, however, that it is already perfectly possible for operators to invest in building nuclear power on an equal footing with wind power. I haven't seen a single one raise your hand and say you want to. We have three sites that already have electric chargers or transmission grids developed. We have sites where it is permitted to apply to build. Nobody does, because nuclear power is one of the most expensive types of energy. It is expensive to build, it is expensive to operate and the end result is expensive for electricity consumers. I agree that it is feasible. But planning at a reasonable and profitable price so that it is cheap for electricity consumers will be important, and there are more modern and better solutions.
i-N8DzTEjb1Pqyx5ANFVUXWy	Madam President, I would like I want to get back to this market-oriented thing. I think that the Government's performance here shows something. I think we sometimes forget in politics that what we say and what attitudes we have to things matter. The Government says: For a while we will need nuclear power. Then I would not want to invest billions in a nuclear power plant. If you want to see big investments, you have to say: we will be investing in this for as long as this nuclear power plant has as a lifetime. We think that is necessary and good. In addition, there are only three sites where nuclear power stations can be set up today, and they are owned by three companies. In fact, only three companies are involved, and they are largely state-owned. So only these companies can build nuclear power. I don't call this market-wise, but this is what I call inviting the elbow, if this is what we want. The Minister may not have it in mind, but then you have to be clear about it. That is the big difference between the energy policy of the Social Democrats and that of the Green Party. The Green Party has a completely different vision of the future, and growth is not a matter of course for them. On the contrary, they believe that we can go back to prosperity or growth in order to achieve certain goals. But that is not the vision that the Social Democrats have in their policies in general, but they believe that we should be able to promote economic development. I'm sorry, Minister, but I can't make the equation go together.
i-QS8rz38kh8VakypKy8NADq	Madam President, I would like I think we are really into the other interpellation debates now. But it is still a good debate, so let us continue! I would like to point out that there is a great deal of volatility today in applying to build wind power. If our words are so important, I say it: there is a great volatility today. There are lots of municipalities that say no. It is sometimes uncertain whether environmental aspects will allow it and whether the Armed Forces will allow it. Nevertheless, the companies are literally in line to spend their money on wind power. Not a single one has raised his hand, not a single one has contacted the site owners and not a single one has said that you are prepared to invest money in nuclear power – this despite the fact that volatility, I would argue, around wind power is much greater when it comes to whether to spend your money there or not. But there is profitability. And I, who have a background in the market, see that the profitability argument is crucial. It's cheaper to build, and it's faster to build. You don't have to depend on long and heavy investments in fuel that you buy on a world market where different countries, friendly or others, can put the future price on fuel and decide what it will cost to run it. It will be able to combine it with different solutions, such as fuel storage, in order to deliver planning. I would argue that there are equal conditions. After all, no market is 100% like anyone else. However, in this situation it is difficult to correctly argue that nuclear power would be disadvantaged in the market, at least since Stefan Lövven's government in connection with the 2016 budget bill removed the excise duty on nuclear power.
i-V565a6w5i8bvzb5XzGz84B	Madam President, I would like Lotta Olsson has asked the Minister for Finance whether he intends to take any action on the basis of the current rise in inflation due to the rise in energy prices. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. It is true that prices of electricity and fuel have increased recently. There are several interrelated reasons for the high prices, not least the fact that energy prices on the continent have been very high, especially on fossil fuels such as natural gas, and that the levels in the Nordic water storage facilities earlier this autumn have been low due to little precipitation. The production of hydro power has also been affected in the near future by the annual ice-laying one on the rivers. As far as fuel prices are concerned, they are affected by the rise in crude oil prices during the year and by the growth in the economy following the pandemic and demand. Oil and fossil fuel prices are put on a global market and are driven by supply and demand. Electricity prices are also subject to the influence of prices on the continent. The government is working purposefully to secure and increase the supply of electricity as well as to switch so that we can use other than fossil fuels in our cars and vehicles, such as electricity or fuel from forest waste. In terms of electricity prices, the government has taken several initiatives to create the best possible conditions to enable new investments in the Swedish energy system. By way of example, I can mention the decision to give the Swedish Enterprise's Swedish power network the task of extending the transmission network to areas in Sweden's maritime territory. It will significantly reduce the total costs of connecting, for example, offshore wind power and thus create incentives for establishment and increased production, especially in southern Sweden where it is most needed. The Swedish transmission network also needs to be strengthened in order to overcome the capacity shortage and to remove the bottlenecks. Therefore, the Swedish Enterprise's power networks will almost triple their network investments over the next three-year period compared to the previous three-year period. Finally, I would like to mention that Sweden is on an annual basis a net exporter of electricity with comparatively low prices and very low CO2 emissions. We have a good supply of electricity, and the National Energy Authority estimates that this will be the case at least by 2050.
i-D6Z2pLu3BisrPVzB2J7tWb	Madam President, I would like A good state economy is very much linked to inflation targets being kept within the set framework. The fact that inflation should be around 2 per cent has been the goal of the Swedish central government and the Riksbank for a long time. The stability of inflation makes the economic rules of the game stable. We can take bank loans and not have to worry about running interest rates, and we can invest in savings and companies without constantly worrying about whether the value of our investments will remain until tomorrow. It is based on inflation and its development that the Riksbank decides on policy interest rates. In short, inflation controls a large part of the national economy. Madam President, I would like Energy prices are one of the most important factors affecting inflation. All major changes here affect everyone's costs. They affect our personal finances with our household electricity and our transportation costs to work, school and leisure activities. To think that electricity prices are a separate department is naive. For the vast majority of Swedes, energy prices and stable energy prices are crucial. Madam President, I would like Not seeing these big connections is naive. We cannot cope with economic stability if energy prices are to be as volatile as they are now. Energy prices need not only to be reasonable, but also to be stable. Private individuals and society should not have to adapt their entire lives and activities to volatile electricity prices. It's too inefficient. Madam President, I would like There are goods that can be stored, and then there are fresh goods. When we buy food, it becomes clear. Electric energy is the largest fresh product of all. To believe, with which the Government persists, that this fresh product can be made more stable by building more wind power is a mistake. Just as the government often argues in the energy debate, we have electricity exports on an annual basis. When it blows enough and not too hard, we can export. Meeting the fresh supply of electrical energy with large wind farms does not solve the balance. In order to balance the system, we need more regulated energy, such as water or nuclear power. Maybe no one wants to expand more hydropower today. However, it may be more efficient. But building nuclear power goes. In addition, more wind power will have to be built. If we are to electrify our entire industry and transport, we need to produce twice as much energy, with the possibility of stable delivery. Only by having a policy that does not have a phobia for nuclear power can we manage stability. It is absolutely crucial to meeting inflation targets. By doing so, we can give our citizens security and inflation stability. The loans you have do not suddenly become very expensive, and what we are shopping does not suddenly cost much more. It does not matter if we raise pensions and wages if inflation eats up the whole increase. Here, electricity prices play a key role. Does the Government really have any other solution in its toolbox than just expanded wind power?
i-BMRTwBdU8g2nPme4YPSogN	Madam President, I would like There are several mechanisms that contribute to inflation. One is that the costs of producing goods and services are rising. Then companies may have to increase their prices and compensate for rising production costs. For example, it may be because wages have risen or oil has become more expensive. The increase we are seeing at the moment may well be due to increased energy prices. Yes, electricity prices are unusually high in Sweden right now. However, compared to the rest of Europe – not least France, which is the world's second most nuclear-seat country, a type of energy that Lotta Olsson really seems to be passionate about – our prices are very low. I understand very well that it is little comfort for those who sit with high electricity prices right now, but you still have to look at the reality out there when you see where to go to get lower electricity prices. Lotta Olsson wonders if I or my government have a phobia for nuclear power. No, we have no phobia for anything, neither one energy type nor the other. We are driven by Swedish electricity consumers having good access to cheap electricity, and there lies the key: cheap electricity. Nuclear power is today one of our planet's most expensive types of energy. We can look at our neighbouring country, Finland, which has now built a new nuclear reactor. In addition to the fact that it took decades to get it in place, it has been so incredibly expensive that the production cost per kilowatt hour that it will be for this reactor will be three, perhaps four times as high as for Swedish wind power. We can also look at the new French reactors, which meet the modern safety requirements that did not exist in the 1980s when they were built earlier. There we are talking about up seven times higher production costs for electricity compared to Swedish wind power. This cost must be taken somewhere. How many of the inhabitants out there would like to see quadrupled or seven times higher costs on their electricity bills permanently because we invest in an unprofitable energy source? Lotta Olsson and I agree entirely on the need for planning in the energy system. Just as hydropower can be planned by saving the water higher up in the warehouses and releasing it when it is needed so that it can be planned in the system, in the same way wind power or other power types that are not planned can get a planned functionality by storing the power of fuel. When there's a lot of wind, we produce hydrogen, for example – it's a kind of fuel. When it doesn't blow, we use the hydrogen to create electricity. This provides balance and planning in the system. The government has taken several initiatives to create the best possible conditions for fossil-free new investments in the Swedish energy system. For example, we have decided to give the Swedish Enterprise's Swedish power networks the task of expanding the offshore transmission network for Sweden's maritime territory. Offshore wind power has 50 percent more full hours than on land, making it much more efficient. But do not let me hold on to the fact that it is only wind power that will be the solution of the future. It will be a broad palette. We will continue to see hydropower as the backbone of Swedish electricity production. We will see the existing nuclear power as still important for Sweden for a long time to come. We will also see increased wind power, fuel storage, solar panels, smart grids, energy savings and more.
i-9Ee91UfQLNf3w5RSwhY2A7	Madam President, I would like Inflation in Sweden last November was 3.6 per cent. This is the highest inflation we have had since December 1993, largely due to high electricity prices. On 4 December, the Government of Aftonbladet stated that no reduction in tax or other compensation for the sharp increase in electricity prices was involved. Now, instead, we see that 6 billion in electricity subsidies will be paid out from the state to those with the highest electricity bills. This, of course, makes it easier for those who suffer from large electricity price shocks, but it is not linked to the tax actually paid. Contributions are also always unpredictable. Madam President, I would like If you want to promote stable inflation, if you want people to invest in cheap energy systems and dare to invest in businesses and plan for their private lives, an unstable energy policy is not a good model. Sacrifice our entire economy on the hypothesis that wind power is the only solution to our energy problems ahead is a dangerous path. With a new minister we could have hoped for new insights and perspectives, but unfortunately it seems that the Social Democrats have lashed out at the wind power helm as strongly in their own government as the former Green Party. But unlike those who stand for economic growth not to be needed, the Social Democrats pretend that it is possible to both create economic growth and exclude nuclear power at the same time. The price is paid by ordinary people. What if this is the new normal mode? Then perhaps Finland has actually made a correct investment. It is not the low prices in the summer when it blows that you now get paid out. Subsidies may in themselves customers do. It's not done through the treasure. But through what we pay on the electricity bill, we pay to offshore wind power infrastructure, and it goes on cheap exports. It is not that our Swedish customers will benefit in the winter. It will certainly be great for the countries in our vicinity that will phase out their coal power to perhaps not have to buy fossil gas from Putin, but it is not our need that is primarily met by this. The hydropower is great, and it covers between a quarter and a third of our power today, but I do not see how we can extend the hydropower to double. If we're gonna fill that hole completely with wind power, we're in trouble. I'm just as passionate about wind as I am about water and nuclear power, but we need to balance the system. That is what this whole debate is about. Bringing wind power to hydrogen is a smart and good technology, but it still costs a lot. Wind power is not at all cheap then, and you do not have the same effects when you store. Besides, we don't have a system for this. It will involve large investment costs that are not included in the calculation either. So there are some pears and apples in the minister's briefcase here.
i-WbzSeF3ZFojXQjJa32ZV2f	Madam President, I would like Indeed, the Government allocates just over SEK 6 billion to electricity price compensation for households affected by the high electricity prices. Let me start by saying that this is an exceptional measure. I do not know if any government in modern times has made such an effort. When a consumer signs a contract in a market to buy a service or be, he is the one who bears the cost. My party's policy has always been to strengthen the finances of Swedish households through various initiatives, not least in the budget adopted by this House with a slight adjustment. We want to strengthen households' finances so that they have the power to fend for themselves. Let me remind you that, two days ago, the Director-General of the International Energy Agency said exactly what I have mentioned in the debate: it is Russia's action in Europe, which is taking place for political reasons, which is building the energy crisis that we see. In this situation, to allow Swedish households to be taken hostage by Russian action on the European market is not acceptable. That is why the government is making this exceptional measure of 6 billion to be paid as a compensation of up to SEK 6 000 for those who have had high electricity bills. Lotta Olsson highlighted the tax reduction model, and the differences deserve to be highlighted. Let me remind the House that a year ago, Sweden's electricity consumers had record low electricity prices at exactly the same rate as now. Thus, to argue that the tax rate would be behind these increases is simply not in line with reality. What would happen, however, if we were to use the tax model, as the right has suggested, is that those who live in very large villas and are likely to have good conditions and good economics would get the most back, while those who live in small houses, semi-detached houses, small townhouses or normal villas could hardly get anything back at all. The model we have established means that for a normal villa with around 2 000 kilowatt-hours of electricity per month, the ceiling level is reached. If you spend more than that, you won't get any more of this support. It is so precisely to free up money in this system that those who consume less – those who live in small houses, small townhouses and semi-detached houses – will be able to take part in a larger part of this cake when their electricity prices have increased. This is a distributional political difference – it's classic right – left, and that's what we stand for. I think it is a wise policy that, when we do this exceptional measure, we target it more to those who need it most and not to those who already earn the most. I see that my speaking time is coming to an end, so I think I will stay there, Madam President, and I will come back to you in the next speech.
i-RZFG52DDPN2amzQGtTgCoi	Madam President, I would like The government says this is an exceptional effort. How sure can we be of that? It's really a normal, normal winter that we have now. It is not exceptional, but this will come back next year as well. Should we have investments with electricity subsidies then, or will we not? Next year's not an election year. It is becoming very clear with what the Minister is saying now that this is chosen so precisely and is a social democratic distribution policy. Energy policy has even been turned into a system of subsidies based on its own policies. Is it not a little strange that we need to create a system of subsidies for an energy system that has previously financed itself? People should know, whether they live in small houses or in small apartments, that if they invest in a heat pump it is a good behaviour and do not feel that they may miss the contribution to the electric bill that they can get when it's election year. No, this is not good enough, as I see it. But it is still good that the Government is clear about this. When it comes to being Russia's hostage, is it the same with it – is it supposed to be like that every year? Russia has lots of old nuclear power – they don't have a specially equipped nuclear power but they do have a lot – and they have oil and natural gas. They are the ones who will be strong when there are crises ahead. We will have to spend our money not on defence but on energy subsidies. No, this won't do.
i-87NVbPB3HaX83hZUatEvxW	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by not negligating the threat we see from Russia. We see how things have developed recently in the Baltic Sea, and we see how things have developed in Ukraine in a worrying way. We see that we have Russian action on the European market that is aggressive when it comes to energy policy, and it drives prices up so much throughout Europe that even the Director-General of the International Energy Agency points out that this energy price crisis that we see in Europe is designed by Russia and has political aims. Let us, who are to represent the adults in this room, I hope, not be taken hostage in this. This is an exceptional situation. It may be an election year, but that is not what is crucial; it is Russian action that creates an exceptional situation. It would be very strange if you couldn't see it. That is why this support is withdrawn. Lotta Olsson thinks it is wrong that once we help those who have gone the most badly, we should direct the support precisely to them and not to those who earn the most. It must be a classic right – left conflict. I do not think we are going much further in that debate, but that is where we stand politically. That is why I am a social democrat and Lotta Olsson is moderate. I'm fighting for everyone to get better terms, and Lotta Olsson is fighting for those who have the most to get it even better. When it comes to investing in continued nuclear power, it is interesting to know who should invest money in it. We will have two more interpellation debates, so we will certainly have time to discuss this. Who has raised their hand to invest in nuclear energy? That answer would be interesting to get in the future.
i-2ugQV5B8WRBTKomZYtXWE1	Madam President, I would like Lars Hjälmered has asked me whether I intend to take any immediate action in view of the high electricity prices and what measures I intend to take in the longer term to try to stabilise electricity prices. As Lars Hjälmered rightly points out, recently high electricity prices and large electricity price differences between different electricity areas have been characteristic. There are several reasons for this, especially the fact that energy prices on the continent have been very high, especially for fossil fuels such as natural gas, sometimes unfavourable conditions for wind power and that the levels in the Nordic water storage facilities have been low. It is the electricity market players who decide on investments in new electricity generation. This is why the Council has taken several initiatives to create the best possible conditions for new investments in the Swedish energy system. As an example, I can mention the decision to give the Swedish Enterprise's Swedish power network the task of extending the transmission network to areas in Sweden's maritime territory. It will significantly reduce the total costs of connecting, for example, offshore wind power and thus create incentives for the establishment of increased production, especially in southern Sweden where it is most needed. The Swedish transmission network needs to be strengthened in order to overcome the capacity shortage and to remove the bottlenecks. Therefore, the Swedish Enterprise's power networks will almost triple their network investments over the next three-year period compared to the previous three-year period. As the pace of expansion needs to increase, it is also very gratifying that the Riksdag has supported the Government's proposal in the proposal Modern permit processes for electricity networks aimed at shortening lead times and making it easier to expand the Swedish electricity network. In addition, further efforts are under way to shorten lead times. The Swedish Energy Market Authority, the Swedish Power Network, the County Administrative Board and Lantmäteriet are all working to streamline methods and processes for permits and trials. Finally, I would like to mention that Sweden is on an annual basis a net exporter of electricity with comparatively low prices and very low CO2 emissions. Compared to the continent, our Swedish prices are low, both historically and in the autumn. The wholesale price of electricity in Sweden is also now among the lowest in the EU. We have a good supply of electricity, and the National Energy Authority estimates in its projections up to 2050 that this will continue to be the case.
i-VKbLAzZCc1hrZzAMbWQVg3	Madam President, I would like Maybe there'll be some cake on cake like I said, but I'd like to pick up a few things. The high costs are due only to reduced access. Even if the government distributes money, the amount of energy will not increase. It just means that you can retroactively get back some of the money. January is for most of the year's poorest month. But this time many families and entrepreneurs will be shocked when the bills for December land in the mailbox. A house owner or terraced house owner will see electricity costs of 5 000, 7 000 or 10 000 SEK. That's a lot of money. These are serious problems, Madam President. We have big, serious electrical problems. Prices are ticking. Prices are alternately sky-high for a short later fall. Many may have tied their electricity prices. But now it hasn't even been possible to do that. Regardless, prices fluctuate all the time. Families and companies can do very little to influence their situation if they have not tied their electricity price. In addition, there are several examples of companies that cannot establish or grow as they want because the electricity system is not enough. This is not good enough, Madam President. That's not good enough at all. We have noted that the Minister for Energy claims that the reasons for the unnecessarily high prices in Sweden would be that they are affected by the availability of Russian gas and European emissions prices. But decisions such as the early closure of nuclear power would not matter. We can play with the idea that the 6 billion now going as a contribution to energy would instead have been spent on nuclear energy and what it would have had in terms of both access to electricity and prices. It is true that gas prices have risen sharply. It is also true that the economy has started after the pandemic. It is also true that bad German elections with shut-down nuclear power that have led to Russian gas dependence also affect Swedish families and companies. But it is also true that bad S-decisions are now visible in Swedish wallets, Madam President. In 2014, S decided to stop Vattenfall's plans for new nuclear power. Vattenfall's board was replaced and the nuclear tax was stunned, despite the fact that it would lead to closed nuclear power plants. Quite exactly a year ago, Parliament voted if Ringhals 1 could be used for a number of years to give southern Sweden cheap, fossil-free electricity. S chose to vote to close Ringhals 1. These and other decisions now lead to deep holes in family and corporate wallets being dug. Madam President, I would like Our vision is strong economic development combined with green transition. Both are needed. We're going to need duplicate use. Historically we in Sweden have had good electricity and a good energy system. But now we have major problems: three electricity crises in the last year and greatly increased total costs for companies. One example among others is that Klippan Mill in Skåne has terminated one of three employees because energy prices have increased so strongly. Madam President, I would like This strikes the Swedish people.
i-MqTcT2obYvHwyiwPBL8RgG	Madam President, I would like I am basically pleased that the government in the incredibly unusual, exceptional situation that we find ourselves in is doing something exceptional to make it easier for Swedish consumers. Of course we do not want to be in this position. We have not wanted Russian action in Europe to lead to these consequences. We have not wanted countries like France, which base 70% of their expensive energy production on extremely expensive nuclear power and the rest on energy gas, to be so incredibly dependent on old-fashioned technology that it drives up electricity prices that much and affects us. But when this happens, once it happens, and the Russian action, as the Director-General of the International Energy Agency points out, we cannot sit down and let Swedish households get hurt. I am glad that, instead of the right, we are doing something that actually gives more to those who need it most. If we had chosen the right-wing version of tax cuts, those who earn the most would have received the most. This is not the right way to go in this situation when people need support. This isn't normal. No one – not this government, and I honestly do not think any government – is planning to take this kind of action. This is an exceptional situation we are in. When I listen to Lotta Olsson, I note that she is talking about the closure of nuclear power as if it were a decision that has been forced forward politically and not because of market forces. It's not consistent with the truth. In 2000 or in the early 2000s, two reactors were shut down. I think that could be said to be more politically motivated. The Social Democratic-led government, Stefan Lövven's government, removed point taxation on nuclear power. After that, there is no difference between nuclear power and other forms of energy. But the market has seen that it is unprofitable. After all, France has constantly more expensive electricity prices than Sweden, precisely because of their large nuclear dependence, which creates very expensive electricity for Swedish electricity consumers. If we or this House had politically forced the nuclear power plant owners to continue to operate nuclear power plants that were built at a time when Walkman Walkman was the coolest tech device, the costs of it would have been so high that it would have risked permanently raising prices for Swedish electricity consumers. That is what market conditions mean when making decisions, i.e. investing in a profitable solution. We see profitable solutions ahead of us. We will have to make smart grids that use the energy properly at the right time. We will have to invest in a broad palette of energy efficiency improvements, in the same way as we do with food waste, to ensure that we use energy properly at the right time. We will need to see more of wind power, which is renewable, cheap and supplies electricity that is more than a third as cheap as electricity from, for example, the new Finnish nuclear reactor. And we will need to have smart and modern ways to store that energy, for example in fuel, hydrogen or other, to get planned functionality in the system. We will continue to have to guard our important hydropower, see how much more we can get out of it and ensure that it continues to deliver. I see before me a broad palette of solutions for the energy system of the future while I hear the Moderates only talking nostalgically about a small part of a system.
i-N4voYho294r5gAbVqSbVD4	Madam President, I would like I think it's cute when you call me nostalgic. I have been involved in wind turbines for more than 20 years – there were hardly wind turbines at the time – and I have followed the development closely. The wind farms cannot cope with such an exceptional year, as the Government has said, as this year. But that's not exceptional. There will certainly be concern in the world for a period to come and not just this year. It'll be regular winters. It hasn't been an exceptional super winter this year. I'm afraid we'll see the same dilemma next year, and then it's not election year. Then the electricity bills land directly in people's economies. Perhaps inflation, as we discussed earlier, has gone up then and erodes people's pensions and wages. The bill will take an increasing share of income. Perhaps we will adapt more to European perspectives. In England and Central European countries, electricity is so expensive that many people freeze. It is not the case that there will be an electricity subsidy if you do not have a good economy, but you can freeze. Let's forget this sometimes. We live in a welfare state and believe it exists forever. That's because we've been far-sighted and focused on safe systems. If you look at old films from when hydroelectric power was built, you can see what big investments were made and what social and personal hardships it was. Whole areas were put under water to ensure hydropower. Nuclear energy, too, has been a major effort, although it may not have taken as much social action. You cannot ignore everything that we have built up and believe that we will be able to introduce a new extraordinary system before we have put all the pieces in place. There is no hydrogen layer that can store leftover wind power cheaply. There are no large battery bearings that can fix this. Even if the Minister and I are as energy efficient as they please, that is not the dilemma. The dilemma is that we will need twice as much energy. This does not apply primarily to the private economy or our housing. That's where the prices will break through. Without this, industry and all transport are involved. The way politics looks, it puts a restraint on the entire ongoing green revolution. There's a lot that people don't dare to bet on. They do not dare to invest in nuclear power, because we will see what happens. We'll see how it's going to be, isn't a vision. I think we're gonna need it for a while longer. These companies are three in number and largely state-owned. That's where the steering would have gone in. You do not dare to invest in an electric car, even if you want to, if you know that prices may be as high as on diesel. Furthermore, we do not know whether we will be able to charge it, because we do not have infrastructure for this. Nor do we have energy for what we need today. Politics wants a lot of things, and it goes great in Norrland where the energy is. But how are we also going to see the green revolution in electricity zones 3 and 4 that is so proud of? There are many major challenges. I do not think that the wind farms are a solution to the problem. It's almost the opposite. Rather, they show that you do not see the entire palette.
i-Lidx2LLksztVR64YsFWgM	Madam President, I would like I can reassure Lotta Olsson that nuclear power is today an important part of Swedish energy production. This will be the case for a long time to come. I can also inform Lotta Olsson that it is free for anyone who wants to invest in nuclear energy to do so. Since Stefan Lövven's government took care to remove the excise duty on nuclear energy, there are not even any tax differences. Yet no one does. I can also inform Lotta Olsson why this is the case. The market, operators and business – those who build this – understand that if they produce a product that is one of the most expensive types of energy and that costs four times more than wind power costs or than a product that can be produced in other ways, it will be difficult to sell it. This is what the market sees. I hope that Lotta Olsson will also come to the same understanding. There is no ideological obstacle from me or the government if someone comes and says that they are prepared to spend their money on nuclear power, but I have not seen anyone do it. It is not profitable. It's not going to be profitable just to say it's going to be profitable. It becomes profitable when it can produce electricity that is cheap and when it can produce electricity in the reasonable future. We are talking about a new reactor that would take decades to build. We have seen how our neighbour Finland has struggled to build a new reactor. It took 16 years to get it in place, and it supplies electricity that is three to four times more expensive than the electricity from Swedish wind power. Where will the money be taken if it gets more expensive? By the taxpayers? Of the electricity consumers? Or should they be taken by companies that are hampered by having to constantly pay four times more expensive electricity prices every time they produce a new green product? We are looking forward to a new green industrial revolution in Sweden. Then we cannot stop it by giving companies one of the absolutely most expensive types of energy available. That's where we split up. We have not locked ourselves in to a single type of energy as a solution. Our governance is goal-based. The goal is for Swedish consumers to have good access to cheap electricity, not access to electricity that comes from nuclear power no matter how expensive it becomes, which seems to be the goal of Moderates. We have dealt with this in the Energy Agreement in the past. I look forward to continuing to do so. One of the fundamental pillars of that agreement was precisely the degree of marketability. Let's stick to it. I think it is reasonable for this to be market-oriented. Lotta Olsson says this is a regular winter. We see Russian action against Ukraine, warships entering the Baltic Sea and Russian action on the energy market. It has even led the Director-General of the International Energy Agency to point out that the energy price crisis in Europe is designed. I sincerely hope that this does not become commonplace, and I do not think that Lotta Olsson wants it to be common. If there were to be a normal situation, the world would have far more problems.
i-Lsv9i5SdQRt6grQzqkzLv6	Madam President, I would like Making broad agreements is important and good, but this clearly shows how ideologically different we view the world. I wish, of course, that this is an exceptional winter. But I have visited both Moldova and Ukraine and know that this is a means of power. When Russia knows that someone is dependent on energy, they can strangle a little on the gas when it's winter and cold to make people docile. We have not had this dependence before. You crawl in behind the market. The market has no responsibility for our safety. That's why the minister can't squat behind it. Of course, a government must act on this. Nor can you bet on anything when you know that it might go. The Sony Walkman example is very good. I wouldn't bet on a Walkman Walkman either. I had one when they existed, but today it is a product that has been discontinued. If the Minister at one point says that we need this for a while more, you don't want to make an effort that will last for 40 years. If you look at the cost of nuclear power over 40 years, which is the depreciation period, you can see that nuclear power is doing well because of its advantages. I want to make it clear that I have nothing against wind power, but I don't know where to bury all the wings. In the United States wind turbines have started to be dismantled. That's where you dig your wings into the desert. How does the minister intend us to recycl all the great matter that exists? There are problems here too. I'm sorry, but seeing the wind farm as the universal solution unfortunately does not hold.
i-JvNzqHVgXMjH9HQcdmVpL6	Madam President, I would like Let me begin where Lotta Olsson stopped her speech, that is to say the recycling of a wind turbine. There is a steel structure that many demand. Then there are carbon fiber wings that can also be recyclable. They are also quite cheap to produce. I think you can do this in different ways. Let me return to the ideological dividing lines. None of us want to depend on foreign power. In any case, it sounds like that on Lotta Olsson. We should not allow Swedish electricity consumers to be influenced by, for example, the Russian action that we see in Europe today. Although Sweden continues to have one of the lowest electricity prices in the EU, we are also affected, especially in electricity price zones 3 and 4. Then I guess the solution is to free ourselves from that addiction. For example, it is about investing in energy sources where we need to buy the fuel from Russia, for example. Is it liberating to buy uranium from Russia? It is also a question of investing in a hugely expensive building. Then I think of the coming Finnish reactor Hanhikivi 1. Do you know who owns this reactor? It is 34 percent owned by Rosatom. It is the Russian energy company that goes in about owners. It is so insanely expensive to build that you become dependent on such solutions to build. It is not a way forward in terms of security policy. It is not the reasonable way to create an independent energy system. Our energy system will be based on a wide range of solutions with hydropower, hydrogen, wind power, smart grids, energy storage and everything. But we cannot just hate wind power, as the Moderates do, and see it as the biggest problem instead of finding another solution.
i-PokThodwxh5RN5Y9EPWqXa	Madam President, I would like Lars Helmered has asked me how I intend to increase the planned fossil-free production of electricity. Furthermore, Lars Helmered has asked me if I intend to explore the possibilities of improving the possibilities for Swedish nuclear power. Finally, Lars Hjälmered has asked me what measures I intend to take in view of Sweden's failure to comply with EU rules and legal requirements on accessibility. The Government is working to ensure that Sweden has a secure, competitive and sustainable energy supply. However, it is not the government that decides which power types electricity producers should choose to invest in. This is decided on the market, and we can see that there is a great willingness to invest in wind power. The government is taking a number of measures to create the best possible conditions for market players to decide on new investments in the Swedish energy system. We are also working to speed up the expansion of the Swedish electricity network. The Swedish transmission network needs to be strengthened in order to increase transmission capacity and to reduce variations in electricity prices. Therefore, the Swedish Enterprise's power grids will triple their network investments over the next three years compared with the previous three-year period. As the pace of expansion needs to increase, it is also very gratifying that the Riksdag has supported the Government's proposal in the proposal Modern permit processes for electricity networks aimed at shortening lead times and making it easier to expand the Swedish electricity network. As far as nuclear power is concerned, it plays an important role in Swedish electricity generation, and it is expected to form a significant part of the energy mix in Sweden for the foreseeable future. As regards the honourable Member's third question about Sweden's failure to comply with EU rules and legislation on accessibility, I would like to clarify roles and responsibilities. It is the Swedish Enterprise's power network that is responsible for calculating trading capacities and assigning them to the market. The Swedish Market Authority, which is the supervisory authority in this matter, began a few months ago to monitor how the Swedish Enterprise's Swedish power network complies with the so-called 70% rule and has now decided that the Swedish Business Authority will provide further information. I do not consider it appropriate to pre-empt the Authority's conclusions in the ongoing supervisory matter. However, it may be worth adding that the Swedish Enterprise's Swedish power networks are actively working to improve the situation, including through reinforcements in the electricity grid.
i-4G6ZpshYBsPtVDqb7wK3n2	Madam President, I would like Families and companies in Sweden are now sweating over the sky-high electricity prices. An undesirable price record has been broken this week. In addition, Sweden has a power war with neighbouring countries Finland and Norway. The government authorities strangle electricity exports to our neighbours, and Norway responds. There are families and entrepreneurs who suffer from high electricity prices and systems that are not enough. Madam President, I would like All of this affects the operational safety of the Swedish electricity network. From 1 January 2022, Swedish power networks have requested to strangle the supply of electricity to our neighbouring countries with reference to the operational security of the Swedish electricity network. That is something that has upset our neighbours. According to EU rules, 70 per cent of the electricity in Swedish power grids should be able to be transferred to our divided electricity areas. But because the Ringhals 1 and 2 nuclear reactors supplied Gothenburg, Malmö and also transferred electricity to Denmark and Norway, more and more electricity has had to be transferred from the north in Sweden to the southern part instead. The pipelines will then be heavily burdened, and we will have to cut back on flows to our neighbouring countries. The lack of planned production has become increasingly apparent since Ringhals 1 and 2 were closed. In the Swedish power grid's system development plan 2022 – 2031, which was released on 16 November last year, they write among other things: ..................................................... Swedish power networks also list the challenges for a power system in change where the first point is to increase understanding of the need for planned electricity generation. There they write: a lack of adequacy on the production side needs to be addressed by adding new fossil-free planned production to the system, and Swedish power networks will work to increase understanding of this need. .....................................................
i-VyDtDGhWdHqj3Ro2keqKuA	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Olsson, for the questions! Let me begin by saying that we agree on the need to increase access to renewable planned electricity. It's important. This is one of our most important tasks. In the future that we are sketching on, Sweden is moving towards a double consumption of energy. As we push fossil fuels away for our cars and for industry, the use of electricity will increase. That is why we are going to move towards a future in which, over the next 30 years, we are likely to double our energy consumption. Then new solutions must be found. But these solutions must also be cheap. It is about moving from the position we have today on the European market, even now in this exceptional winter with these high prices, to being one of Europe's cheapest electricity markets. Although we are one of the countries that best deliver cheap electricity to electricity consumers, it will be problematic for our consumers if we start delivering more expensive electricity. Should we invest in the most expensive types of energy, as France, for example, has done with the new reactors that supply electricity at six to seven times more expensive prices than, for example, Swedish wind power, we will have permanently increased electricity for our electricity consumers. It's not good for industry. It's not good for growth. It does not make it easier for companies to consume electricity cheaply and to use that money to hire more and grow. Therefore, profitability is a crucial part of our future energy production. Another part is that it should be reliable and planable. Madam President, I would like Today we use 140 terawatt hours of electricity per year in Sweden. For some who may listen to this, 140 sounds like a number. I can say that there have been about 140 terawatt hours of electricity unchanged in the last 30 years. In the future, we will probably double that figure. Let me tell you where the market, operators, industry and people who are prepared to invest in, for example, wind power and other renewable sources think their money should end up. Only in the southern parts of Sweden, and only when it comes to offshore wind power, are there currently applications to build offshore wind power equivalent to 350 terawatt hours of electricity per year. That is two to three times what we are consuming today. I'm not naive. I realize that not everything will be built. It will be about environmental permits, consideration for the Swedish Armed Forces and various aesthetic considerations to be taken before it can be built. But 350 terawatt hours of electricity are the players on the market ready to invest in and to build today, and they are literally waiting to build. I am not saying that this will be the solution alone. This isn't gonna solve all our problems. But it is clear that there is enormous potential in more than two- or triple our energy production with a single energy type. Then there are a lot of other types of energy that we want to invest in in the future mix. I would ask you to come back to the other questions in future.
i-WzbFCkUd81aEsizweawhMQ	Madam President, I would like It is nevertheless exciting that there are no debates in which the Social Democrats or the red side so clearly highlight that it is the market that is managing this. It's not the market that takes care of everything. I do not understand what we really need energy policy for. The responsibility that we have to take in terms of accessibility, safe production and not to fall into the hood of other countries because we are not self-sufficient concerns the market. The market today is three companies which are mostly owned by the state. So it is not a real market. Then there was the question of the major investments in wind power. The gift box provided by the electricity certification system is now closing again, which means that the support systems that have been in place will not be available at a later date. We have agreed that long-term changes in the systems must be seen. There the support systems will disappear. Now the gift box closes, and then you take to the last straw. But this is not what I ask for, but what I ask for is what is planned. If Sweden produces three times as much electricity as now that it is blowing, it is good for Germany, Poland and Finland, but Sweden does not need that amount. It's a cheap export product for the minister. That's good, and it's not wrong to export electricity. But I'm not asking for this. If the price is seven times too high, as I think, then on the one hand there is a calculation of joy, but on the other hand the scenario is disaster and misery for the economy. One third of our mix would bear the higher cost but still guarantee that there is always electricity. No one would be happier than me if we could make it with the sun and the wind. I have absolutely no ideological opposition to sun and wind, but one must look at the possibilities offered by technology. The price of hydrogen is not the same as the price of wind power. That is the double, and there is not even the hydrogen infrastructure. There are no storage systems, our cars do not go on hydrogen and we have not learned the technology. We don't even know if the gas will work fully in the industry. Then it is suddenly okay to say that there is a solution. But the expertise on the nuclear side, where there has been enormous expertise for some thirty years in Sweden, is not looked at at at all. The market cannot manage security policy, but the market cannot manage our largely state-owned infrastructure systems on the electricity side in Sweden either. It is not possible to have hot electricity lines because there is no good energy policy. They should be used in a functional and good way and not transport electrical energy hundreds of miles when it can be locally produced, for example right now in Norrland. This isn't good enough. Where's the planned electricity? Is it a hydrogen layer in the Stockholm archipelago? Where is the solution?
i-4PJ5hbkZdhdRhWuJ4x17tW	Madam President, I would like As I've been into before, I think Lotta Olsson and I agree that we need more planned electricity. But let me come back to a specific question about the figures I presented earlier. When the prices of wind power and nuclear power are calculated, they tend to get quite close to each other. The prices I present are the real figures that have arisen once you have finished building. The new Finnish reactor is ready and may soon be up and running. When you look at the prices when the reactor is finished, you can see that they are not the same as the prices for wind power. Then it will be three four times more expensive than the Swedish wind power. At the same time, we have seen that the wind power that has been built in Sweden has become considerably cheaper than calculations. It's the same with the new French reactors. They will meet the new safety requirements to prevent meltdowns and other problems that could lead to major disasters. Then it will be six seven times more expensive electricity prices than for Swedish wind power. It is no wonder that Sweden today has one of the cheapest electricity productions in Europe while France has one of the most expensive. And France is the second most nuclear-seat country in the world. We see no ideological obstacles to nuclear power or any other type of energy. We are fairly sober about nuclear power leaving waste that will be radioactive for hundreds of thousands of years. We are quite sober about the fact that it is an extremely expensive source of energy. We also look quite soberly at it as a planned source of energy. That's the advantage. In the same way that we have nothing ideological about nuclear power, we also have nothing ideological about it, that it must be just that. We see that the energy mix of the future will be broad, and we see that we will continue to need hydropower. Wind power will be a larger part of Swedish energy production than the 17 per cent today. Almost every fifth terawatt hour used in Sweden is already coming from wind power, i.e. wind power will increase. There will be storage in fuel. It may be hydrogen storage, and it may be other storages. We will see increased use of both heat and electricity from combined heat and power plants. We will see an increased use of energy efficiency and smart grids. Furthermore, we will see a much larger energy palette. What I think many people can enjoy is that Sweden is in an extremely good position. Unlike Germany, we are not dismantling nuclear power prematurely. Existing nuclear power will continue to deliver and continue to play an important role for a long time to come. It gives us the time our German neighbour did not have, that is, the decommissioned nuclear power without having anything else in place. Many envy the extremely good situation that prevails in Sweden. Nuclear power today plays an important role and will do so in the future. But above all, it gives us the time to have something else in place instead of being dependent on buying uranium, oil or gas from oil sheiks, Russia or other states in order to drive our future energy production. That's the big difference, and that's our great strength. I hope that we can take a hand there to find a good solution for Sweden's electricity consumers in the future.
i-NRmijufR946fD6SXGK7Eem	Madam President, I would like Nor do I have anything ideological for or against. I want us to have a stable system. We should be free and not commit ourselves to systems that make an ordinary Swedish winter an exceptional opportunity and you will have to send out electricity subsidies in the class 6 billion SEK. That money I might think it would have been better to bet on keeping Ringhalsverken for a while longer. Then we would have managed the climate better, made it better for the Swedish people and managed Sweden better. This won't hold. I am also aware of this whole large palette and that we are in a good position. Sweden has always had that since we have been forward-looking and made tough decisions. But it's not a triple of the wind power we need. To triple our production of wind power cannot meet the needs we have – unless the Minister has a new, exceptionally efficient method of hydrogen storage. It's very expensive today. It's not in place. Now there are also technologies that would allow the 90% of the energy left in the uranium used in nuclear power plants to be used. You could use it as an energy source instead of storing it. Unfortunately, that research, nuclear research, has been down for a very long time. Now nuclear research is progressing. I suppose this would be the absolute best thing to do. That's enough storage for a thousand years instead of a hundred thousand years. That is certainly forward-looking. Then we also have energy for a thousand years to come. A tip to the Minister for Energy, who does not yet have a good explanation for how to cope with the planned energy supply.
i-MPVyQjux1g8djEasDxRy1S	Madam President, I would like I also wish we had a magic thing to solve our problems. Perhaps there is something in a laboratory that will come in ten years' time, like the fourth generation of nuclear power that Lotta Olsson is talking about, and that it then takes maybe two decades to get in place for production. I also wish there was something that would magically use up the uranium that takes hundreds of thousands of years to disintegrate and would also supply electricity. It doesn't exist now. If it comes, well, then I promise we'll look at it. Until then, however, we cannot tie the nation's future energy supply to an idea that perhaps something will come out of a laboratory in the future. I note that Sweden today, despite the temporary extremely high electricity prices, has one of Europe's lowest electricity prices precisely because of the mix that Sweden has found of government control and market players working together. There are countries in Europe that do not. We have mentioned France several times. It is one of the countries where the state controls much more energy policy directly in a way that we do not do in Sweden. The Moderates are market liberals on many issues. On this particular issue, state socialism would mean actually driving up prices in the electricity market, but I note that the Moderates would like it to safeguard nuclear power. That's not exactly where we are. The most important thing for me as Minister of Energy is and will be that Sweden should have good access to cheap electricity, now and in the future.
