i-SHkXKHM1jkcnk9NaS2o13U	Mr President, I would like to The Constitutional Committee's report on public access, confidentiality and integrity contains many interesting questions. These are some of the core tasks for the Constitutional Committee to safeguard, but I will concentrate on two of these issues and would like to start by calling for the approval of reservation number 7. The concept of privacy includes a number of different aspects. One of them is about the protection of personal data and the protection against malicious, perhaps business or foreign powers. Through what we know as GDPR or the Personal Data Protection Regulation, the European Union has ensured this. This means, among other things, that personal data must not be stored in any way outside the European Union. Initially, there was an agreement between the European Union and the United States to store personal data on the other side of the Atlantic. This was beneficial both for the protection of our privacy as well as for companies and technological development in many different ways. The fact that this has fallen, Mr President, has led to the fact that in the state administration or in Sweden we must not use, for example, the form of video communications software that stores data outside the European Union. This has limited our ability to communicate with others, and there are things that may need to be developed here. In other words, the Schrem II judgment has meant that we have challenges in this area that we need to address. The only way to do that is a new agreement with, for example, the United States and other friendly economies to ensure that we can exchange technology and experience and develop together. None of us want to fit our personal data, for example, to Russian servers, but we need to be able to cooperate with others outside the European Union. We therefore stress the need for the government to take swift action to bring about a new agreement with the United States, among others, within the framework of the European Union. But we also have challenges at home, Mr President. In Sweden we have something as nice as a privacy authority, which is something we should be proud of. This authority has the task of safeguarding our privacy. This is not something we can take for granted. It is important and a valuable task. At the same time, we must manage the balance between protecting our integrity and not hampering technological development and progress leading to improvements in our society. The privacy notice to the Privacy Protection Authority, as it stands today, can be seen as somewhat one-sided. This has led to some problems, particularly with regard to the possibilities for technological development, when the Privacy Protection Authority – fully in accordance with its mandate – has stopped certain conditions that could otherwise have existed. It would have been possible to allow the development of technology that has been inhibited today in a way that would have been secure in its integrity. We Moderates therefore want the Government to be given the task of reviewing this in order to ensure that the Privacy Protection Authority not only has a mission to protect privacy but also a mission to help in the balance between protecting privacy and enabling technological development, and at best be able to combine these two in a good symbiosis that enables a good level of privacy protection and progress in our Swedish innovations that strengthen Sweden's role in the international economy.
i-6GGY233BtCzTciH7QWCssK	Mr President, I would like to Issues relating to the limits of the public's obligations to share information are a very important issue for the free democratic system of government. Sweden has a long and honorable tradition of public access – that basically all actions relating to public and society's governance should be public. A particularly important aspect of the public's handling of information concerns the Swedish democrats' request in the report: the exchange of information between authorities. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to endorse our reservation l in the KU28. No one, Mr President, can deny, in the shadow of the violent riots of the Easter weekend in our so-called alienation areas, that the public should make every effort to cooperate as effectively as possible against such things as terrorism, the exploitation of welfare systems, gang crime and various forms of anti-social behaviour. Respect for confidentiality principles is fundamental, but confidentiality rules cannot, at the same time, be allowed to interfere with the duty of public authorities to carry out their official duties effectively. The only reasonable thing is that authorities should be able to access all information relevant to their responsibilities, even if this information comes from other authorities. The existing derogations for this purpose are too tight and we need to achieve a better balance than the present one. One possible solution would be to create common registers for information, and another would be to simplify the rules on public access to documents and confidentiality. We welcome the investigation that the government set up on 3 June 2021 to counter grant crimes, but are concerned about the lack of a corresponding investigation into the coordination of information related to crime by the authorities. It is precisely with regard to criminality that we can repeatedly see that the public deficit. Subsidy fraud is a major problem, especially when it can be linked to organised crime. However, the fact that the coordination of authorities to combat gang violence or terrorism is hampered by confidentiality rules is a more acute problem. Do Swedish authorities really have access to all the means they need to suppress serious organised crime? Here the government needs to do more. We in the Swedish Democrats believe that a first step in the approach would be to set up an investigation for this very purpose, either linked to crime itself or which generally reconsiders the rules on the coordination of information by the authorities. Such a relevant question simply cannot stand.
i-RxqBDKiM2BHA2vRSQ14sRz	Mr President, I would like to The Center Party has two reservations in this report, and I would like to support reservation 4. We live in a time that seems very uncertain. There are threats, but actually enormous opportunities. One of the scales is integrity, freedom and openness. In the second wave lies surveillance, crime, repression and control. The concept of monitoring is obviously double. In it there may be freedom but at the same time oppression entirely depending on who and how it is used and who has control over the surveillance tools. Mr President, I would like to Technological developments have in a short time, seen in a slightly larger perspective, enabled us, on the one hand, to create a great deal of security and, on the other hand, to create opportunities for monitoring citizens, for example, through camera surveillance and transparency in digital communications. Such monitoring can be based on good reasons, such as law enforcement. Information about each individual is today gathered in large quantities by public actors as well. The Center Party wants to set up an investigation tasked with strengthening citizens' control over how the public uses their personal data. The Center Party wants to strengthen the individual's control of their personal data and to create better transparency in how authorities and other public actors use this data. We believe that consideration should be given to introducing a solution whereby citizens are informed about and when their personal data is used or transferred from one authority to another in Sweden. Of course, situations such as criminal investigations and other matters related to criminality must be excluded in this regard. While, with the new technological achievements, we are doing everything we can to combat crime, it must be balanced against the individual's right to privacy. Mr President, I would like to I myself have experience in working for strengthened camera surveillance and to strengthen other control systems from when I had positions of trust locally. Just a few years ago it was a very complicated matter to put up a surveillance camera in a public place. It took us in my municipality a very long time and a lot of work to convince both the county board and the police of the necessity of it. In addition, as a minor, I can see that we, as a municipality, paid half the cost of getting this surveillance camera in place, even though it was actually a police matter. Today I see a completely different pace in the expansion of the systems that monitor us as individuals. Much is justified. But my point is that we must constantly test the proportionality of all of this, especially when it is technology-driven and offers enormous opportunities to build different systems. As you know, technology beats politics many times. This is precisely why it is important to have a clear privacy perspective when personal data and information are collected.
i-AFeH76HqvxSwH5FUQCmHS4	Mr President, I would like to We are now discussing a report with motions from the general period of exercise dealing with issues of public access, confidentiality and integrity. It is thus an important and fundamental part of the Swedish administration. The fact that citizens and the media have access to information from the authorities and can request documents is essential for maintaining trust in the authorities. It is an important part of being able to review the authorities in the country. The protection of people's privacy is, of course, self-evident. This report deals with a variety of motions and issues. I intend to dwell on the issue of transparency in the payment of employment aid to companies. There are several forms of employment support to make it easier for people who, for various reasons, are far removed from the labour market to get a job. It goes without saying that there should be confidentiality when it comes to information about the individuals involved and the reasons for the payment of aid. However, it is quite incomprehensible that it is not public what aid is paid to companies, i.e. not to support the individual, but to support the company. I am elected as a member of Örebro County and have lived in Hallsberg for a long time. There it was widely known that a company in a neighbouring municipality was very good at using different forms of employment support and that many actually got to start their working life there. It was also widely known that almost no one got a permanent job and that the employment did not last longer than the time that employment support could be paid. And then, directly, a new person was hired with some form of employment support. Perhaps this knowledge, which was widely known, was right or wrong. However, since there is confidentiality in the employment aid paid to companies, no one could investigate and examine how this was done. That's not good, of course. We in the Left Party have repeatedly exercised that this must be changed. The majority of committees has rejected the proposal and the Riksdag has rejected it every time. It has not been considered that there is a need to make this information public. The last complete handling of the issue took place in spring 2019. As you know, some things have happened since spring 2019. In the spring of 2020 there was support in the Riksdag to introduce a new system of support for short-term work related to the coronapdemine. This support has enabled employers to reduce the working time of staff, but still retain these people as employees and receive support from the State for part of the cost. In this connection, a new provision was also introduced in the Public Access and Confidentiality Act, which means that decisions on short-term work are not covered by confidentiality. This addition was made to meet the public and media's interest in transparency in these cases. Our view is that there is exactly the same need for transparency in matters relating to all other forms of employment support. It should be obvious that it should be possible to look at this. And now there is an opportunity for the Riksdag to actually correct the big difference that exists between different forms of employment support. That is why I would like to vote in favour of Amendment No 2.
i-SAQaVsoFwCXSnQv6abNiyC	Mr President, I would like to We support all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 3. Mr President, I would like to Privacy is about the individual's right to control access to his or her own sphere. Progress in technology creates new opportunities for the individual but also new vulnerabilities. In order to protect the rights and privacy of all citizens, the protection of their own person on the internet needs to be improved. At the same time, it is in the definition of privacy that ownership of your own information must lie with the individual. The individual should be able to influence information gathering that is perceived to violate personal privacy. This applies not only to Sweden but also to the EU. All new EU proposals should be analysed from a privacy perspective. Protection of privacy is central to a free society. No one has the right to know everything about you, and liberals protect personal integrity. Online privacy is becoming an increasingly important issue. In today's society, privacy is about government registers, law enforcement and private company data banks. Privacy issues should be given greater weight when new rules are introduced. Sometimes privacy must be balanced against other important interests, such as the work against terrorism or other crimes. But privacy issues need to be carefully analysed when new laws are passed. However, this is not always the case today. Mr President, I would like to Private individuals are giving away more and more information about themselves and their buying habits, especially online. When we become customers, privacy issues become even more topical. We Liberals believe that individuals should have clearer transparency as to what data are stored and how they are used. It should also be easier to have data deleted when the customer relationship ends. Consumer privacy protection in online purchases needs to be strengthened. Online commerce brings great benefits to the consumer, for example, through increased choice, but growing online commerce also means that consumers are giving away more and more data about themselves and their consumption patterns – data that is sold to other companies in a way that is impossible for the individual to see. Companies offering free online services request, in exchange, access to information concerning the consumer. Although this requires the consumer's consent, the consequences are difficult to assess. Legislation needs to be tightened up. It is about the type of data that companies may save and how long the data may be stored before a new consent has to be obtained from the individual. Consumers should also be better able to have their data erased. Laws and rules that restrict the individual's right to personal data on the internet must be followed up. In addition, measures on the Internet aimed at combating organised crime must be balanced against the individual's right to privacy. There is also a need to improve consumer protection for children and protection against online marketing for children. Therefore, the Liberals believe that the Government should report on developments in the protection of personal privacy in an annual letter to the Riksdag. The letter should also highlight both the legal conditions for privacy protection and the overall development of the use of different types of information technologies that affect privacy. Finally, Mr President, every person's right to privacy should be strong. Personal integrity is an aspect of human dignity that concerns the right of every human being to have his or her own character and inner realm respected. The individual's right to privacy is subject to the human rights of the United Nations, Article 12. The individual's right to privacy also enjoys constitutional protection in our Swedish government form. Every person's right to privacy is important to protect!
i-R7LcDXFLD6KRf4nF9HB8Qv	Mr President, I would like to The principle of public access is central to Swedish law. It means that the public, individuals and the media can have an insight into the state's affairs, which are basically our common concerns. Just as this is a central part of the Swedish legal order, the individual citizen's right to privacy and privacy is also constitutionally protected, as my colleague mentioned earlier. Both these principles – the state's public access and the individual citizen's right to privacy – guide our work on public access and confidentiality. Mr President, I would like to On the table today is the Constitutional Committee's report 2021/ 22:KU28 Publicity, confidentiality and integrity, which deals with motion requests on this theme. I would like to draw attention here to an area which is being dealt with this year, namely the issue of different classification markings, regulations and the possibility for authorities to interact through facilitating the exchange of information. Mr President, I would like to Confidentiality applies between authorities and between independent branches of activity within an authority. This is justified by the protection of the privacy of the individual. In many situations, cooperation between authorities may be necessary, for example, to safeguard the individual's legal certainty or health or to combat crime. In order not to make such cooperation impossible, a large number of rules on confidentiality already exist which allow for the exchange of information between and within authorities. These are, therefore, provisions that enable authorities to share information with each other. Mr President, I would like to In addition, it may be useful to recall that the individual also as a general rule under Chapter 12. Section 2 The Act on Publicity and Confidentiality may partially or totally suspend the confidentiality that applies to the protection of the person concerned, i.e. for him or her, something that occurs in contexts where the individual is in need of cooperative authorities. There are therefore already a number of examples of rules that aim at and enable cooperation between authorities. But, Mr President, there have been areas where we have seen that criminals have used the rules of secrecy and integrity, i.e. the well-known state drains, to gain tax revenue illegally. It is therefore a question of welfare crime, where criminals have used the Swedish rules to enrich themselves at the expense of Swedish taxpayers. That is, of course, totally unacceptable. That's stealing. That is why we social democrats in government have launched a government offensive against cheating and welfare crime, where an important part is precisely about increased cooperation between authorities. Last autumn, the Government presented the proposal to establish a new authority for system-wide control of payments from welfare systems. The work to counter the mispayments and grant crimes is important for confidence in our entire well-being. The new authority will therefore be tasked with combating fraud and mispayments through system-wide analyses of payments from welfare systems. The agency will also be given the task of paying benefits decided by welfare authorities such as Försäkringskassan. In its work, the Authority shall weigh the individual's right to privacy against the general need for access to information for control purposes. The Authority will start its activities next year, 2023. Mr President, I would like to Not a single crown should go to criminals. On the part of the Social Democrats, we are determined to strike down hard on all attacks on the common. Last autumn, the government also proposed significant additions to existing authorities and their work to counter mispayments, tax offences, benefit crime, labour crime, money laundering and terrorist financing, as was also mentioned here earlier. Measures for road management were also included. Mr President, I would like to The government offensive means that there will be more raids on construction sites, more checks on professional traffic on our roads and intensified work to ensure that our tax money does not go to cheaters and criminals. There are many authorities involved in this broad offensive: Försäkringskassan, Kronofogdemyndigheten, Skatteverket, Arbetsförmedlingen, Företagsmiljöverket, Bolagsverket, Finansinspektionen, the County Administrative Board of Skåne, Stockholm and Västra Götaland, the Swedish Police Authority, the Swedish Gaming Authority, the Swedish Real Estate Authority and the Swedish Transport Agency. This is gonna make a difference. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish rules on public access, confidentiality and integrity are important elements of our democracy and legal order. We will protect and protect them. Part of this is to defend them, and us as a country, against the attempts of criminals to exploit these principles for their own benefit. Here we need to strike sensible and well-thought-out balances and stand united in order to protect the principles of public access, confidentiality and integrity on the one hand and to protect our common resources on the other. The government's government's offensive against cheating and welfare crime is about this. Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, I would like to thank you for the floor and to support the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-77YgUnSmti29zjVi3Y2Ymi	Mr President, I would like to Today's debate is about shipping, or more specifically about all the maritime movements that were submitted during the general exercise in Parliament last autumn. The concepts deal with everything from the general conditions for Swedish shipping to electrification of shipping and the work to reduce its environmental impact. Mr President, I would like to Maritime transport is extremely important for Swedish trade and for Sweden's goods supply. As many as 90 per cent of all Swedish imports and exports use shipping at some point during the journey. Swedish shipping employs 10 000 people on board ships and over 100 000 people throughout the industry. Interruptions in shipping quickly have consequences in all countries, as shipping is international in nature. Many of us remember when the large container ship Ever Given, with over 18 000 containers, at the end of March last year broke down in the important Suez Canal and blocked traffic for about a week. This grounding quickly had negative effects on industries, industry and society up to us here in the Nordic region. This clearly shows how important shipping is to us in Sweden and to everyone in the world. A functioning and competitive Swedish shipping is fundamental for Sweden, which is an elongated country with a long coastline and which is dependent on exports and imports, to be able to function. Mr President, I would like to When you talk about shipping, many see only large passenger ships and freight ferries for their interior. The truth is, however, that Swedish shipping is so much more. A ship is nothing without a functioning port. A port is completely dependent on infrastructure to and from the port in order to be able to pass its goods on to or out of Sweden. Ships cannot function without skilled and committed crews that make the work and safety work at sea. Everything is connected in order for Sweden to have a good, competitive and efficient shipping. If you look at fees and taxes, however, you can see that Sweden has a bit left to achieve this. Sweden is one of the few countries that have pilotage fees and fairway fees, i.e. fees for navigating ships in Swedish waters, fees for vessels to add to ports, fees for icebreaking and more. In recent years, these charges have been increased annually, which has been to the detriment of shipping – its competitiveness will then decrease. The reason for the increases has been that the fees finance the Swedish Maritime Administration's finances. The work is one of three remaining businesses and is financed for the most part by fees. During a time when the work's economy has been extremely difficult to manage, the fees have been continuously increased. It will be a step 22 when a business that is dependent on functioning commercial shipping for its business is forced to increase its charges to the extent that the cost is so high that trade shipping traffic is reduced. As a result, in May 2020 the majority of the committee issued a notice to the government to investigate the Swedish Maritime Administration's financing and organisation model. Almost two years later – this year – the Government acts by commissioning Statskontoret to investigate the conditions for the Swedish Maritime Administration in accordance with the announcement. I would have liked the government to have acted somewhat earlier on this issue, as this has affected shipping for a couple of years when charges were raised. In defence of the government, however, it has provided the Swedish Maritime Administration with a reinforcement of 300 million for 2022, 2023 and 2024, which is positive. At the same time, the Swedish Maritime Administration was exempted from the requirement of return on investment and equity during the period 2021 – 2024 because the solidity of the work in particular was very low. This is certainly a good thing, but it also creates risks. I hope that the government is clearly following developments in the Swedish Maritime Administration's finances. However, I choose to take a positive view of these appropriations, as the Swedish Maritime Administration has announced that from 1 January 2023 – hears and is amazed – it intends to break the trend with increased fairway fees and instead lower the same. Whether this also applies to pilotage fees is still unclear. However, the joker in this numerical exercise, Mr President, is that the Swedish Maritime Administration is faced with the need to acquire three new icebreakers at a total cost of SEK 41⁄2 – 5 billion. This expenditure cannot possibly be taken from the work's own budget, and the lack of clarity about the funding means that the delivery of new icebreakers is at risk of being delayed. The government has not given any clear information on how to resolve this funding. I hope that we can perhaps have a position on this in this debate. I repeat: it would be impossible to finance this through the usual budget of the Swedish Maritime Administration without increasing the levy on the rest of shipping to unimagined heights. What does the government want? Mr President, I would like to As I mentioned earlier, ports also play a particularly important role. Most of Sweden's more than 50 ports are currently owned by municipalities or regions. These need to invest in their ports to meet Sweden's need for trade. At home in Skåne, which I come from, both the port of Trelleborg and the port of Ystad have spent over 1 billion each on new modern harbours in order to ensure continued freight traffic. Billions of the municipalities' own money is spent on investments that benefit most of the country Sweden and perhaps not the very municipality in which the port is located. Nevertheless, the government is chasing the ports and demanding that they reduce the costs associated with ferry services. I dare to say that ports, which operate in a competitive market, are very cost-conscious and are already pressing the costs they may be pressing. In fact, too high a cost situation would lead shipping companies to find other ports that can accept their goods in a cheaper way. I believe that the state should instead assume its responsibility to facilitate infrastructure and secure freight flows to our major ports. Sweden already has five so-called core ports that are specifically designated as important ports for Sweden. It is Trelleborg, Malmö, Gothenburg, Stockholm harbour and Luleå harbour. In addition, larger ports are included in the EU's transport corridors, such as Ystad, Helsingborg, Karlskrona, Gävle and others. The Finnish Transport Agency should be tasked with planning, prioritising and ensuring the necessary infrastructure to and from ports for efficient freight flows. Unfortunately, neither the government nor the Finnish Transport Agency prioritise this, which is worse for Swedish shipping. Instead, help important port cities such as Trelleborg and Ystad to build ring roads and roads for better freight flows! Help the port of Gothenburg and Malmö with better railway, so that they can increase our growth! It is unreasonable that the municipalities and their inhabitants, and not the government or the state, should take responsibility for Sweden's freight flows. A tip is actually to look at the national freight transport strategy, which has many good proposals. But it does little to help if the government sits on its hands on maritime issues and avoids action. We in the Moderates want to see an active government that tackles maritime issues and removes competitive disadvantages from Swedish shipping. Make a review of all the different fees and taxes of maritime traffic in order to enable better shipping in international competition! Ensure that the ports have the necessary infrastructure to and from the ports! That's a win-win for everyone. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to say a few words about inland navigation, or rather about the EU-class barge traffic and the possibility of transporting goods through canals and rivers, over our larger lakes and in our metropolitan regions. Although the government has set up a national coordinator, who has also made a lot of good proposals that have been incorporated into the national freight transport strategy, the regulatory framework for this traffic has changed little. EU-class barge services are regulated by EU regulations, unlike sea-going shipping, which are regulated by the UN body IMO, the International Maritime Organizations. Comparing seagoing shipping with barge traffic will be comparing apples and pears. Faced with the EU acquis that governs barge traffic also in Sweden! At least then there are regular conditions to use barges instead of land transport along certain routes in Sweden. It would greatly relieve our roads if we could move goods from roads to barges. This is also in accordance with a notice addressed to the Government in May 2019. The problem remains, however, that the government is not taking any initiative on this issue. It is not ensured that the necessary legislation is in place after consultation with the Swedish Transport Administration, the Swedish Transport Agency and the Swedish Maritime Administration. Mr President, I would like to Swedish shipping is particularly important for Swedish trade and for the supply of food and goods. Since shipping is extremely international and mobile, Sweden can offer good competitive opportunities, so that more ships both operate Sweden and also flag their ships under the Swedish flag. When other countries adapt their legislation to make this possible, Sweden must be on its toes and follow along. We cannot turn a blind eye to the changes, have higher fees than others and impose higher requirements on shipping companies than other countries. Sweden needs an active policy that implements the necessary changes and improves Swedish shipping. If we remain passive, we will be aft-sealed and risk losing an entire industry. The basis for improvements is largely there, but the question is who dares to steer the ship in the right direction. So far, the government has been passive. I'm hoping for a change. Mr President, I would like to Of course, I agree with all the reservations that we in the Moderates have made in the report, but in order to spare Members of this House too long votes, I only ask for our reservation number 2 to be approved.
i-MSgwmMFgunzskSDQZngZz1	Mr President, I would like to I'm in favour of reservation 23. But of course we support all our reservations. I shall begin my speech with a question, Mr President. Do the Social Democrats want shipping? Is the answer yes will the next question: Do the Social Democrats want Swedish shipping? If the answer is yes to it, we are also asking Swedish democrats: where are the investments in shipping? In 1996, the Parliament adopted a policy objective. In various ways, the State would take advantage of the competitiveness potential of maritime transport. What has happened since then? Not much. In 2014, Sweden was given the opportunity to carry out shipping on protected waters such as the Göta River to Lake Vänern, Lake Mälaren out to Södertälje lock and coastal protected waters. This meant that it was possible to start EU-class barge traffic via regulatory facilitation. Trays can be different. There are everything from construction barges to barges that run like their own ships. What we're talking about is barges running for their own engine. An average barge vessel has a load capacity equivalent to about 100 normal-sized trucks. The barges are designed to be operated in confined spaces and are adapted for domestic transport. They fit very well in the city environment to transport everything from building materials to containers. Given the possibilities of barge traffic, one might wonder where all the ships are. The Transport Committee has been looking at a ship, Leander. It worked fine. The problem, Mr President, is costs and regulations. As I said earlier, Sweden was given the opportunity to operate in accordance with EU regulations on inland waterways. But what does the government do? Well, they make rules that are adapted to IMO regulations for ships adapted to go to sea with high waves. Attempts have been made to get barge traffic started. In 2021 it was celebrated with pomp and glory when Sweden's first container pendulum on inland waterways was inaugurated, the 110 meter long German ship Emelie Deymann with a capacity of 208 TEU, which corresponds to about 200 trucks. The barge was to run between Norvik harbour and Västerås harbour. The aim was to move goods mainly from road to maritime in order to relieve the heavy-duty road network in the region while reducing CO2 emissions. The trip would take 15 hours, and the commuter would start with two departures a week. It was just a trip. Then the ship had to go back to Germany. The conditions are worse in Sweden than on the continent in view of the fairway charges and that the barges need to have a pilot before the ship's master can apply for the articulated pilot exemption. Sweden sees inland waterway vessels and IMO ships as the same thing. But on the continent this type of ship has been facilitated in a completely different way, something we in Sweden could also have done to get a transfer from road to shipping. Why isn't this done? Since 2014, we have had this opportunity. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has been a major maritime nation. We had a thriving shipbuilding industry and a large Swedish-flagged fleet. I ran into an article from 2013 from P4 West where it was noted that more and more shipping companies moved abroad and that in 2013 there were only 103 Swedish flagged ships left. Only five years earlier there had been around 250 Swedish flagged ships. Between 2001 and 2016, the previous strong merchant fleet dropped drastically, from 254 vessels down to frightening 89 vessels. But in 2017 it turned, and more vessels flagged into Sweden. In 2019 Sweden saw its 100th vessel under the Swedish flag. Then why did the flag increase? In recent years, the government and parliament, the trade unions and the Swedish shipping industry had implemented a series of measures, such as the introduction of tonnage tax, regulatory simplifications, inspection delegation and modernised collective agreements. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Shipowners' Association wrote in 2014 that we could reach 400 Swedish flagged ships by 2020 if the policy followed. 400 vessels had involved 43 000 workers on land and at sea compared to today's approximately 25 000 and 31 billion in subsidies to the bnp compared to today's 18 billion. With 400 Swedish-flagged ships, compared to around 100 today, we could have 1 000 Swedish-controlled ships, which is twice as many ships as today. But politics did not follow, so now 2022 there are still only 100 Swedish flagged ships. Mr President, I would like to It is not expensive to make the changes that give us Swedish-flagged ships. It is not costly to make regulatory changes that allow, for example, barge traffic. On the contrary, it will eventually strengthen the Swedish economy and reduce unemployment. If the government really wanted to move goods from road to shipping, the goods would already have been there. Before I finish, Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to give tips on changes that can give shipping a boost. Change the stamp tax into a stamp fee! Give the opportunity to make full use of the space available to the EU for the tonnage tax! Allow special shipping and passenger traffic to be included in the tonnage tax! Restore the net model, which deteriorated when the tonnage tax was introduced! Look at the fairway charges! Check the pilot fees! That would have been far enough, Mr President.
i-DoytbEGsQQJJLq4eY4n3oZ	Mr President, I would like to Everyone has a relationship with shipping. Many have made trips by ship between countries or ordered goods sent by boat to Sweden from another country. As many as 90 per cent of Sweden's imports and exports go by sea. In order to increase the share of shipping and for more people to choose to use shipping, the Center Party has the following proposals: The Center Party wants Sweden to develop a green coastal transport strategy that highlights both the Swedish maritime strategy and the national freight action plan. A good example is Norway, which recently adopted a green coastal strategy aimed at reducing CO2 emissions, creating green jobs and stimulating green technology development. The Norwegian strategy includes operators in the shipping industry, municipalities and national authorities as well as transport buyers. The strategy also has a budget from which green investment can be sought. The Center Party believes that Norway's approach in this plan, i.e. to bring together relevant actors and take a holistic approach to green development of the industry, is worth pursuing also from Swedish quarters. With the current unrest in our surrounding world, the Center Party believes that this type of interaction with a coastal shipping strategy is even more urgent than before. The Center Party also proposes that the possibilities for increased competitiveness and more efficient and better-analysed environmental management in shipping must be reviewed. This also includes intermodal transport solutions that stimulate cross-transport modes of freight flow and transfer of goods to shipping. As everyone knows, all modes of transport are needed together. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party wants more freight on the lake. Using shipping more than today is an important part of the transport sector meeting its climate targets. Shipping is good, because there is free capacity to receive more goods. However, in order to achieve this, the conditions of competition between the modes of transport need to be further balanced. Today, the Swedish Maritime Administration's activities are financed through fairway and pilotage fees, while railways and roads are managed by the Swedish Transport Administration, which is funded by grants. The division between the modes of transport between different public authorities with different basic funding and the effects this has on, inter alia, the conditions of competition between the modes of transport must be reviewed. This is now done with a review of the organisation of the Swedish Maritime Administration, which is gratifying. Lottery activity is important to review how it can be simplified and how the cost of it can be reduced. On 1 June 2021 Sweden started its first freight commute between Stockholm Norvik and Mälarhamnar in a so-called scheduled traffic. In its new proposal for pilot regulations, the Swedish Transport Agency has shown that pilotage regulations are even stricter for Mälaren. What becomes problematic here is that the government in the national good strategy indicated that Sweden should offer the best regulatory framework for shipping in Europe and that measures to facilitate the application of the new regulations should be prioritised. The Government also points out that it will review how a more risk-based pilotage regulations can be designed to create a modern and uniform regulatory framework and what technical and administrative conditions exist to streamline pilotage operations. Against this background, the Center Party believes that freight commutes on Lake Mälaren and other waterways should be regulated by a more function-based piloting requirement in order to harmonize with requirements found elsewhere in Europe. Mr President, I would like to New icebreakers are an issue that has been much discussed during this parliamentary term. The icebreaker fleet we have today needs to be replaced. Icebreakers are important to ensure access to ports and thus reliable transport for business. Stations have been the subject of discussion over the years, but we believe that this should be determined by the need for industry and, in particular, the base industry in the north where exports are entirely dependent on ice-free guttering. Swedish icebreakers, which for a large part of the year are not in use, should be able to be used to a greater extent in maritime safety work and to move fairways and traffic separation in fairways. The design phase for new icebreakers is getting ready, and we have been able to see what the new icebreakers are supposed to look like. What remains, however, is the issue of financing, which is very important. Here, the Center Party wants the government to announce as soon as possible how it intends to finance this major and important investment. However, we do not want to see increased fairway charges because it will affect industry. Mr President, I would like to In Sweden there are about a hundred ports, of which about 50 are designated as public ports according to the Swedish Maritime Administration's statutory body. Swedish ports are predominantly owned by municipalities and are more autonomous and self-governing compared to other countries. The decision to establish and invest in ports is made by the owner of the port, often a municipality or a local company. The municipalities or the municipal company normally provide financing for port infrastructure through their own resources or through loans. The Center Party believes that it is good that ports are operated on the basis of commercial conditions, because our ports are best developed on a competitive basis and on the basis of the market. At the same time, the Center Party believes that from a national perspective it would be good if the state could see the Swedish port operations as an integral part of the transport infrastructure. The Centre Party would like to stress that ports are important hubs for both freight and passengers and that the local and regional activities of ports are therefore largely a national matter. The Center Party therefore wants to see more coordinated efforts when ports want to make investments so that infrastructure to and from ports also develops. Goods, goods and people are not supposed to end their journey in the port but are going on. The Center Party therefore advocates that port operations, by virtue of their strategic importance, should be included to a greater extent as part of the national transport system. We would also like to point out that ports are important in the green changeover. In order to invest in facilities, technologies and infrastructure that make it easier, for example, to serve ships with land-connected electricity and to facilitate intermodal solutions at berth, capital is required. Some of the aid available is not adapted for ports, especially for small and medium-sized ones. As an example, the Center Party wants to address the urban environment agreements, from which ports are now completely excluded when the agreements do not work for public limited companies – although in the case of ports it is individual municipalities that fully own the public limited liability company. Here, the Center Party wants the government to review the forms of urban agreements so that the support can also be applied for by ports. Mr President, I would like to Another issue, which is of great importance throughout the country and, above all, along our coasts, concerns the problem of dumped boats in nature. These can cause long-term environmental damage if substances leak into the soil and into groundwater. Today there are about 100 000 boats in Sweden that are approaching their best before or have already passed it. The largest proportion are end-of-life plastic boats and recreational craft that often contain toxic substances from a time when chemicals legislation was less developed. I visited Vaxholm Municipality in Stockholm County together with the Coast Guard and the municipal board's center party chairman Malin Forsbrand to see for myself the problem with these boats. Vaxholm is not unique, however, but this is a problem throughout the country and along our coasts. This compares with the problem of dumping scrap cars. Here there is a lack of financial incentives, so there is a great risk that boat owners will not make themselves known. There is therefore a need to revise the legislation in order to simplify the handling of scrap boats and wrecks. The Center Party therefore calls for a review of the possibility of introducing a mandatory register of ownership of boats or compulsory liability insurance. Mr President, I would like to Finally, shipping is fantastic and an important mode of transport for the whole country. With this, I support the Center Party's reservation, number 3.
i-8638KSZQtHWffd6FaWfKqi	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party is always behind all its motions and reservations, but today I am in favour of reservation 47, which deals with employment conditions and the working environment at sea. Mr President, I would like to Maritime transport is a very important but under-utilised part of our infrastructure, although it is significantly more energy-efficient and climate-smarter than road traffic and could relieve the burden of land infrastructure as there is a high untapped capacity in both fairways and ports. Measures are needed to promote the shift from road to sea. Among other things, the Left Party wants the government to come up with proposals to further improve the eco-bonus system and to investigate which instruments are needed to reduce the thresholds for new transport schemes for inland and coastal shipping. Mr President, I would like to As I said, we in the Left want incentives for shifting freight transport from road to sea. However, in order for it to have the intended climate and environmental impact, we must not forget, of course, that shipping also affects climate and the environment to a very large extent. It must change, just like road traffic, otherwise it loses some of its purpose. With regard to the environmental impact of shipping, there is no comprehensive factual evidence and there is no authority with overall responsibility for monitoring and evaluating the effects of the overall impact of shipping on the marine environment and its ecosystems. Despite our limited knowledge of the overall impact of shipping, we can see that it is extensive. In its report Man and the Sea, the Environmental Objectives Committee proposed that Traffic Analysis should be given the task of monitoring and evaluating the impact of shipping on the marine environment and its ecosystems. We in the Left Party support this proposal and would like the Government to give Traffic Analysis this task as soon as possible. Mr President, I would like to Maritime emissions of both sulphur and nitrogen are significant, and emissions cause health problems with thousands of lost years of life in Northern Europe alone and huge problems in marine ecosystems. The Baltic Sea is classified by the IMO as a particularly sensitive sea area. We believe that there are strong reasons for strengthening the environmental requirements of ships operating in the area. For example, the government should work to make it possible to introduce binding rules for nitrogen removal also on older vessels in the Baltic Sea. As regards emissions of sulphur oxide, Sweden should work internationally for a ban on open loop scrubbers, where the sulphur is released into the water, and to investigate whether a national ban on these is feasible. They can – as long as bunker oil is still used, although it and all other fossil fuels should be phased out as soon as possible – be replaced by closed loop facilities that collect scrubbing water for port submission for appropriate purification and treatment. Of course, the best in both cases is fossil-free fuels that do not cause these emissions. Mr President, I would like to When we talk about sustainability, it is not only about climate and the environment, but also, of course, about social sustainability, including employees' working conditions and the working environment. The legislation and supervision of the working environment at sea is a patchwork of rules and exceptions, which are also lagging behind the legislation applicable to the working environment on land. It is time for the Riksdag, the Government and the responsible authorities to take a holistic approach and ensure that the right to a good work environment applies to all Swedish workplaces, including those at sea. In all other industries, the Swedish Work Environment Authority is the supervisory authority for the working environment. However, when it comes to workplaces at sea, supervision has been imposed on the Swedish Transport Agency. The Swedish Transport Agency has chosen to delegate much of its supervisory responsibility, including in relation to health and safety at work, to so-called classification societies. In addition, certain checks are carried out via shipowners' self-checks where the shipowner decides whether it meets certain requirements. The Left Party questions the appropriateness and impartiality of delegating government supervision to private actors. We believe that what is the responsibility of the authority and the exercise of authority should be carried out by the responsible authority and that the government should give the Swedish Transport Agency a directive not to transfer supervision work to private operators. Mr President, I would like to The extensive sectoral legislation applicable to the working environment and working conditions of maritime transport, not least in the case of safety representatives on board, has a major negative impact on the work environment and entails a lack of regulatory oversight. We in the Left Party believe that the government should carry out a proper review of the sectoral legislation on the working environment and employment conditions in shipping and minimise it. Maritime cabotage is a word you don't hear very often. This means commercial sea transport of passengers and goods between ports in one country. Cabotage rules in Sweden are based on legislation from 1724. It is the oldest legislation in force in Sweden. EU rules have opened up to foreign vessels flying the flag of EEA States. However, the legislation of 1724 still assumes that only Swedish-flagged vessels are allowed to carry out cabotage in the country. For foreign vessels working in Swedish waters, the flag State principle, not the host state principle, applies. It is therefore the law of the state in which the ship is flagged that applies on board. This opens up problems not least in terms of maritime safety, health and safety at work and employment conditions. This means that foreign ships are not subject to Swedish laws and regulations and Swedish supervision even if their work is mainly carried out in Swedish waters. Also, for many of these ships, international conventions do not apply because they are too small for these conventions to apply on board. The situation and the gap in legislation can give rise to unfair competition, where shipowners gain competitive advantages by using substandard tonnage and by dumping the conditions for employees and health and safety requirements, as well as in public procurement. In the long run, this also means an increased risk of marine accidents and damage to the environment. The Left Party believes that it is self-evident that foreign ships used in domestic Swedish traffic should be counted as part of the Swedish maritime market and that they should be treated as if they were Swedish ships regarding supervision and rules for maritime safety, employment conditions and working environment. No employer should be able to escape their responsibilities by flying their ships dirty and thus try to escape the rules Sweden has regarding safety and safety at work and basic conditions. It is about equal opportunities for competition, about maritime safety and about employees. The Government should make proposals for a coherent legislation for maritime cabotage in Swedish waters in which all vessels carrying out cabotage in Sweden are subject to Swedish laws and regulations and the supervision of the Swedish authorities, regardless of the flag state. Mr President, I would like to Shipping is a global market. There are many problems at international level regarding working conditions and working conditions on board ships. In some cases, slave-like conditions prevail on board. We in the Left Party believe that it is self-evident that state-owned companies, businesses, works and authorities should have a special responsibility to ensure that their operations are sustainable in terms of climate, environment and social sustainability. Several state-owned companies use maritime transport without imposing requirements on the working environment and employment conditions on board ships. The Left Party believes that all activities that the public in some way govern, including through ownership, should lead by example. The Government should therefore mandate in its ownership mandates and directives to state companies, works, businesses and authorities to use only maritime transport certified under the Responsible Shipping Initiative. Mr President, I would like to Of course, workplaces at sea should also be subject to the laws and regulations that we have on working conditions and working conditions. It's time it came true.
i-CWNAT1wxW5N4eebkVRmy3Z	Mr President, I would like to A maritime debate is a debate on jobs and the conditions for all the hundreds of thousands of jobs that depend on us trading with others. A maritime debate is a debate on the environment, because shipping is an efficient and relatively environmentally friendly mode of transport. A maritime debate is also a debate on national security and preparedness, as a large and diversified Swedish merchant fleet is a prerequisite for necessary transport in the event of a crisis or war. The fact that we are creating good conditions for shipping is therefore about so much more than just shipping itself. Mr President, I would like to There is broad agreement in the policy of increasing maritime transport. But there is also a need for a policy that really achieves this objective. The most important thing we can do to achieve the goal of more transport at sea is to simplify the conditions for shipping so that it can compete with other modes of transport on equal terms and that Swedish shipowners can compete with foreign shipowners on equal terms. Then there are a number of factors that are very important. To begin with, the cost of operating in Swedish waters must be comparable to the costs in our surrounding world. The negative trend that we have seen in recent years with continuous and substantial increases in the fees for shipping cannot continue. The Swedish Maritime Administration has now received an additional SEK 300 million for the years 2023 and 2024, and this money will be used for a general reduction in fees for all ships starting from the next year's turn. In addition, there will also be an additional reduction in fees for the most environmentally friendly vessels. This is of course very welcome, but at the same time the question must be asked: what happens next? How should shipowners know that the new, improved conditions will continue to apply? These are important issues, because long-term conditions are needed. The fact that conditions are sustainable over time is of course important for all companies. But for a sector such as the shipping industry, where investment is very large, it becomes even more important. The question of long-term conditions is now under investigation – this after the Christian Democrats, together with the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Left Party, received a majority in this House in the spring of 2020 for an announcement to investigate the conditions for finding a better government organisation and funding than the current one. This would mean an important and good change in shipping conditions in Sweden. The government has finally been looking at this issue for a few months now. One looks at the Swedish Maritime Administration's fees from an international perspective and how the size of the fees affects the competitiveness of shipping and the competitiveness of Swedish industry as a whole. In February next year, the assignment will be reported. It is, of course, a good thing, Mr President, that the government has now taken the initiative to investigate the issues that Parliament decided on in spring 2020. At the same time, however, it is too bad that it takes almost two years from decisions in Parliament's Chamber to the government actually start the investigation work and that it then takes another year before it is reported. Let us hope, Mr President, that we have another government in mid-February next year, which sees how important shipping is for Sweden and which works much faster than the current one. Thanks to the addition to the Swedish Maritime Administration of 300 million, the fairway fees can now be reduced in the years 2023 and 2024. That's good. But without long-term notice, there will only be a hack in the curve, and that is not the same as a trend break. And what we need to achieve now is a positive trend break in the cost development of shipping in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to Long-term and stable conditions are fundamental for many companies. But for investment-heavy companies such as shipping companies it is particularly important. Therefore, it is very unfortunate when conditions that have long been stable change. This happened in the autumn of 2019 when maritime aid – what is commonly called the net model – was reduced. I believe that it was a major mistake for the government at the time to abandon the previous principle, as it creates great uncertainty for the future. This deterioration risks causing shipowners to ask themselves what principle should be abandoned next. Could there be any further deterioration? In the long run, they ask themselves why the business should be located in Sweden and why the ships should be Swedish flagged. If the shipowners ask these questions, it is bad for Sweden. When the January parties deteriorated the conditions for shipping by abandoning the net model, we Christian Democrats kept the full amount in our budget. We have done so consistently in our own draft budgets since then. Industry must have long-term prospects. Mr President, I would like to Before I finish, I was just going to mention briefly the taxes that have a major impact on the development of shipping in Sweden. I know that these are important issues for many of those who listen to this debate. However, formally, the issues are outside this dossier, and I will come back to them when the Committee on Taxation's report on company taxation is due to be discussed in a few weeks' time. We Christian Democrats believe that it has long been high time to develop Sweden's tonnage tax system and minimise the limitations and uncertainties that exist for shipping companies in the current system. In other countries, the system is continuously turned on to make its own model the most attractive. We Christian Democrats also want to investigate the abolition of stamp duty. Investing in ships requires a large amount of capital, and this usually means that a loan is needed. A loan requires a security guaranteed by a pledge. When a pledge is issued, a special stamp duty is levied. When it comes to investments of hundreds of millions of crowns, the stamp duty becomes a significant amount. Moreover, since climate-smart technologies are usually more expensive than conventional technologies, this means that the tax on these investments will be extra high. If it is stupid that we have a tax on investments, it is difficult to find the words for how stupid it is to pay more tax on an environmentally friendly investment. So it works exactly the opposite of how it should work. It is precisely for this reason that the removal of stamp duty must be investigated as soon as possible. Mr President, I would like to Of course, I support all the reservations expressed by the Christian Democrats, but today I am only in favour of reservation 8.
i-YZ3Q679zeUBLLLb1N5CzH7	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating maritime issues. I support all my reservations. However, I have many reservations about the climate and environmental aspects of shipping and choose to opt only for reservation number 5, where we want to remove the stamp duty on the registration of ships. The Corona virus has for two years had a strong impact on Swedish shipping. Restrictions have hit passenger traffic hard in particular, while freight has done much better. Now passengers are starting to return, but it is still a long way from the 30 million people who were transported each year by ferry from and to Sweden before the pandemic. Instead, the war in Ukraine and the wave of refugees coming to Sweden have shown that passenger ferries, which had great problems during the Corona era, are running up to bring people to safety here to Sweden. The world is changing rapidly, and we should be proud of our Swedish shipping. Mr President, I would like to The war in Ukraine also points to another fact: that we need a Swedish fleet. We live in a global world. Sweden has large raw materials assets and world-leading companies that export most of their production, such as wood products and vehicles, to all parts of the world. Maritime transport accounts for 90% of our transports into the world. This gives good income to Sweden and finances our welfare. At the same time, the war in Ukraine has shown that we must also strengthen Swedish shipping, both with Swedish ships and with Swedish sailors. This means that we Liberals believe that we must facilitate the registration of new ships to Sweden. An important tool is to remove the stamp tax and replace it with a direct fee to the Swedish Maritime Administration. The tax on stamps also has a negative impact on the development of climate-friendly shipping, as investments in green technology make ships more expensive, and then you get a higher stamp tax. We therefore want to replace the stamp duty with a clean handling fee for the registration of new ships. The war in Ukraine also has repercussions on the work of our ports. We shall continue to impose sanctions on Russia. Europe's unity has shown strength, but we also need to do more. Countries can take the lead and take the initiative, as was the case with the closure of the airspace for aircraft to Russia. We believe that Russian ships should not be allowed to load and unload within the EU. Therefore, the Liberals supported the proposed committee initiative that Swedish ports should not unload Russian ships. Unfortunately, that proposal fell in committee, which we regret. Mr President, I would like to Our inland waterways are an asset that is not sufficiently exploited, especially as we are beginning to reach the capacity ceiling on our roads and railways around the country. Only 3% of our domestic transport goes on our inland waterways, despite our good conditions here in Sweden. The EU's regulations on inland waterways enable us in Sweden to set our own rules because our waterways do not cross another country. Let's take advantage of it. One example is barge traffic, which provides energy and environmentally efficient transport. Transport by barges in our cities and regions can reduce the number of heavy goods vehicles. The regulatory framework for inland waterways should therefore be examined with regard to barge traffic in order to identify legislation preventing barge traffic. We politicians often talk about the transfer of goods from road to shipping. But success requires an increased focus on the infrastructure to our ports, otherwise there will be no transfer. Roads, railways and public transport are a prerequisite and must work. We want the government to prioritise this in the forthcoming national infrastructure plan – not least the Alingsås – Gothenburg section, Sweden's worst capacity shortage, which can prevent the incredible development that we see in Gothenburg harbour after the dredging there has been completed and you can receive much larger ships. This can also have a major impact on Swedish business. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Maritime Administration is central to the development of shipping. The Authority is mainly financed by fairway and pilot fees from merchant shipping, and the aim is to have a balanced economy in the long term. However, the Swedish Maritime Administration has a strained economy that worsened during the pandemic years, despite contributions made by the Liberals. However, a further increase in fairway charges to improve the economy would jeopardise Swedish maritime competitiveness. Liberals want to see a tariff system that includes transport efficiency and incentives for more environmentally friendly ships and ensures the long-term economy of the Swedish Maritime Administration. An important parameter in these discussions is that Sweden must remain competitive towards its neighbours. The impact of pilotage charges on the competitiveness of different ports is another parameter that needs to be taken into account. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish icebreakers urgently need to be replaced. Icebreakers have an important function to keep Swedish ports ice-free so that companies can plan risk-free for bringing their products out through our ports all year round. It is important that the procurement of icebreakers is carried out from a broad perspective that takes into account different government needs, not least from a defence point of view, and that they cooperate with Finland at the same time. This has been made clear not least now by Russia's invasion of Ukraine. These are heavy investment decisions on icebreakers in the future. Liberals believe that icebreakers should be funded and thus not be a further burden on the Swedish Maritime Administration's strained budget. Mr President, I would like to In order to reach Sweden's target of 70 percent CO2 reduction in transport by 2030 and fossil-free transport by 2045, we need to increase our investment in electrification of smaller ships and ferries. In addition, as far as possible, biofuels need priority to be given to maritime transport, among other things. We also need to invest in research into hydrogen and electrofuels and their infrastructure. All to facilitate the industry's transition to fossil-free transport. In addition, ships should be given incentives to use land-side current instead of using engines running in port. One way to steer towards more use of electricity in port is to introduce differentiated port charges or simply allow the vessels connecting to shore-side electricity to visit the city-by-city ports. The Swedish ports should also be prepared to provide fossil-free ship fuels. In particular, the infrastructure for fossil-free operation must be coordinated with the rest of the energy system. Different solutions will be optimal in different parts of the country depending on the production of fossil-free energy in the area. Liberals believe that the Commission's proposal to require the ports of the TEN-T network to provide various forms of fossil-free energy is a good thing. However, I believe that the requirement to supply liquid gas in the large ports should be specified for fossil-free gas. Sweden should also be the driving force for shipping to be included in the EU emissions trading scheme and for the global maritime organisation, IMO, to reach its 50% emission reduction target by 2050. Finally, I would like to address a marine environment issue. Washed exhaust gases brought into the sea pollute marine ecosystems. That is why we in the Liberals want to see that Sweden is working to ban scrubbers that lead down pollution into the sea. Swedish shipping has an important task to lead the way to fossil-free maritime transport globally. That is why I am in favour of my reservation No 5 to remove the stamp tax in order to facilitate Swedish flagging.
i-Ppaqk2kVqs5nSsWh9Myk1W	Mr President, I would like to We are moving towards the end of this term of office, and this will probably also be the last debate in which we are discussing maritime issues in this House for this time. It has been a challenging term of office. During the previous two years, we have discussed the impact of the pandemic on Sweden as a whole, but also what effects it has had on shipping. It has been about securing the supply of goods through our imports but also about how we can send out what we manufacture as a small, export-dependent country. We have also seen in recent years how people working on board have been particularly vulnerable in the pandemic. The segment of maritime transport engaged in passenger traffic has, of course, been severely affected by people's travel patterns and by the restrictions previously imposed during the pandemic. Speaking of this term of office, it was only a few weeks after the last covid restrictions stopped until Russia began its illegal invasion of Ukraine. The world is not the same after 24 February. Horrible images have been published showing the situation in Ukraine because of Putin war and the Russian army's abuse. The war is having an effect here at home as well. Many refugees from Ukraine have already come here. We see how the war affects trade and the prices that we as consumers pay. Trade unions, which organise, among other things, dock workers in shipping, have decided to block Russian ships. The Swedish Government is coordinating with the other EU countries in a strong response to the Russian regime with several sanction packages. Since the annexation of Crimea 2014, Sweden has gradually reduced both imports from and exports to Russia. Mr President, I would like to It is impossible not to start my speech in this year's maritime debate with the seriously deteriorating security situation in our region that affects all parts of the community. However, as I mentioned, this is our last debate on shipping, and it is therefore also worth mentioning a great deal of what has been done for shipping during this parliamentary term. Here are some examples. With the policy of broad brush strokes, the government during the pandemic was able to use the strong public finances to keep both people and businesses above sea level at a difficult time. For maritime transport, inter alia, short-term lay-offs and the temporary regulation on maritime aid and some other regulatory simplifications were important. Through the Government's budget, the Swedish Maritime Administration receives in addition to the additional contributions they received during the pandemic SEK 220 million in additional funding this year and thereafter SEK 300 million in 2023 and 2024. These additions strengthen the Swedish Maritime Administration's finances and are in line with what it has wanted in the near future. The Swedish Maritime Administration also receives SEK 45 million per year from 2022 to 2024 and thereafter SEK 6 million annually in order to start investing in a fossil-free fleet. The goal is for the Swedish Maritime Administration's own fleet to be fossil-free in 2045. The government will also increase the ecobonus by SEK 100 million in the coming years. It is a bonus given to transport solutions that are better for the environment and climate when, for example, you want to go from road transport to maritime transport. When it comes to the icebreakers, who have been mentioned many times in this House today, it is absolutely essential that we get to the new ones when the existing ones are aged. This is why the Swedish Maritime Administration, together with the Finnish counterpart Trafikledsverket, has worked for a year on the design of the future icebreaker, which is soon to be completed. The Swedish Maritime Administration has announced that they are ready and ready to procure the new icebreakers as soon as the funding is completed and as soon as a notification is given. As a Gothenburger, I would of course like to take this opportunity to mention the progress that is being made in the port of Gothenburg with dredging and fairway deepening so that Sweden will also be able to receive the largest ships in what is Scandinavia's largest port in the future. About three or four meters the port will be deepened, and here the state will contribute about half of the funding. Just recently, the Minister for Climate Change and the Minister for Infrastructure presented the proposal to spend SEK 697 million to further increase the shift from road to rail and shipping. Maritime transport has an obvious place in the climate transition, and we Social Democrats see that we need all modes of transport in this work, but that we need to use all modes of transport in a more optimal way. These were some examples of things that have happened in the field of maritime transport over the past few years with a Social Democratic-led government. Mr President, I would like to In 2017, the Social Democratic Government introduced the tonnage tax to make Swedish shipping more internationally competitive, and that was something that had been demanded by the shipping industry for a long time. Over the years, not least several of my Social Democratic representatives on the Gothenburg Parliament bench have written many motions on the importance of tonnage taxation. Under the former Minister of Infrastructure Anna Johansson the tonnage tax was introduced, and it has now been running for a few years in Sweden. We could thus see that the Swedish flagged vessels again became more after a very gloomy downward trend over many years. The aim of the tonnage tax system is to increase the proportion of Swedish registered vessels and thereby increase the competitiveness of the Swedish merchant fleet with a level playing field. The current Minister of Finance, Magdalena Andersson, was also clear shortly after the tax was introduced, with the need to evaluate it after a few years to monitor the effects of the legislation. Mr President, I would like to During my meetings with representatives of the shipping industry, and not least through Blue Growth, which brings together both employers and trade unions, the issue of the reform of tonnage tax has been highlighted. Even the stamp tax has often been up for discussion. In fact, a decision was recently taken which we Social Democrats support that Parliament should announce to the government that it will evaluate and propose measures to develop, among other things, coastal shipping and the tonnage taxation system. It was also decided that the Riksdag should announce to the Government that it will review the stamp duty on ship mortgages with a particular focus on its environmental impact. This is a good message to Sweden's overall shipping that came through the decision taken in the Tax Committee. Mr President, I would like to Although much has been done in the government and parliament of shipping in recent years, as I have now reported, more remains to be done. One issue is to improve and strengthen the security of employment on board, to recruit broader and more equal and to obtain the necessary future skills. And should it not be obvious that seafarers should be allowed to appoint their safety representative on board in the same way as in the rest of the labour market? This needs to change. More efforts to make Swedish shipping more competitive will be needed. I want to see more flags of ships. And, of course, the issue of flagging is also central from a defence policy perspective, not least in the light of what I started my speech with here today. In order for our country to make a living in the event of war, Sweden needs its own ships in a Swedish merchant fleet. In addition, of course, we also need to be able to protect our central ports where both food and fuel come in and so on. Our goal is for Sweden to become the world's first fossil-free welfare country. Domestic transport will reduce its emissions by ambitious 70% by 2030. It is necessary to use both shipping and rail to a greater extent than today if we are to achieve the goal of being completely free of CO2 emissions in the future. There is more to be done here too, and more policy initiatives will be needed in this area. The assessment is that with the right conditions, for example, twice as much goods can be transported in water around 2040. Mr President, I would like to Without shipping Sweden stops. Without shipping – no prosperity. I would therefore like to support the proposal in the Committee on Transport and Tourism's report on maritime issues as a whole.
i-MPzkQ9ZuPQa1WrgLUsUDWT	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Johan Büser, for giving me the opportunity to go up here and ask you questions! The government has promised to evaluate the tonnage tax system after it has existed for a few years, as Johan Büser said in his speech. Not too long ago, I put a question to Mikael Damberg on this very subject, and he replied that it is not possible to make an evaluation because too few have chosen to be part of a tonnage tax system. That is why I ask Johan Büser instead: if shipping wants to introduce a tonnage tax and the government responds to the desire and imposes such a tax and then finds that few are joining the tonnage tax system, is it not in itself reason enough to evaluate whether something was done wrong when choosing to introduce the tonnage tax system? As far as I know, Sweden is not taking advantage of the EU's full potential in the tonnage tax system, but we are using few parts of it. Mr President, I would like to While we are standing here, I was also going to ask Johan Büser why it has not chosen to introduce the EU's regulatory framework for inland waterways. Why choose to run with IMO rules?
i-EyG8m5ZUABVfZXeCEDBtwv	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Ståhl, for the question. As I said in my speech, the Tonnage tax system was introduced in 2017 by a Social Democratic government. I, myself from Gothenburg, and several colleagues, including Gunilla Carlsson, who is in this House, wrote several motions on the need for a tonnage tax system. It was therefore a joy that after many years the Social Democratic-led government could bring such a system into existence. It was also requested by the industry. It was said that if we were to have a tonnage tax system in place in Sweden, it would greatly increase the Swedish flag. It certainly increased to 100 ships. But it's not enough. We need more Swedish flagged ships. That is also why the then Minister of Finance, Magdalena Andersson, made it clear that the tonnage tax system would need to be evaluated after a number of years. Five six years have passed since the system was introduced. We Social Democrats think it is reasonable that there should be a review of how the tonnage tax system can be improved and made even more effective in order, for example, to get more Swedish flagged ships but also more competitive Swedish shipping. The Minister of Finance's quotes to which you referred, I have not read before. However, I note that we Social Democrats in the Committee on Taxation have decided that there should be a review. This leads to a proposal for an announcement that the government has to implement. We Social Democrats believe that it is time to review the tonnage tax system. We need to review this and put in place a better system so that we have more ships. It was we Social Democrats who introduced the tonnage tax system. Now it is also we Social Democrats who are proposing an announcement to the government that there needs to be a review of the same and that we should continue to strengthen Swedish shipping. This is important for Sweden. And it is not least important for the city that both you and I represent, Jimmy Ståhl – Gothenburg.
i-YcBHSKHUoBQhMaSt16QcGm	Mr President, I would like to As a port worker in the port of Gothenburg for 20 years, I really know how important it is to both ports and shipping. There's something that's pretty boring. I'm so glad you do what you can for shipping. It's very important. But many times it is actually the opposition that is forcing the government before it. The government is repeatedly lauding the persistent work of the opposition. As far as 100 Swedish vessels are concerned, I mentioned in my speech that the Swedish R edare Association had a thought in 2014, when confidence in the future of shipping began to start, that 400 Swedish ships could be achieved by 2020. In 2019 I joined Tomas Eneroth at the flagging party where we celebrated the Gotland ship as the 100th ship. We need Swedish flagged ships. Johan Büser has clearly stated in his speech why. But I wonder again why nothing is happening. I return to the regulatory framework for waterways, which was also introduced in 2014, and wonder why the EU's ability to set up inland waterways is not being used for barge traffic. It could have been possible from Gothenburg up to Vänern and from Södertälje and Norvik to Mälarhamnar. You could transport a lot of construction materials and get rid of trucks. Instead of hundreds of trucks in the inner city of Stockholm, it had been enough with one who drove out and tipped on a barge. Why choose to have IMO regulations on protected waters for ships that never even leave, for example Vänerhamn or Mälarhamn? Why are these ships not made easier?
i-XyV5BaSjWxGjHGzUTzcrRZ	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Ståhl, for your questions! I appreciate the honourable Member's commitment to maritime affairs. I believe that many of us in the Committee on Transport feel a great deal of commitment to shipping. But we do not come from the fact that it was the Social Democratic-led government that took important steps for shipping. Among other things, we increased the share of shipping in the national infrastructure plan to a higher level than was the case for the bourgeois government, for example. It was the Social Democratic-led government that introduced a tonnage tax system. And it was the Social Democratic-led government that led the way and said that Sweden will become the world's first fossil-free welfare nation. Of course, this will also mean efforts on shipping in the transition that we are now in the middle of. I would like to remind Mr Ståhl, as far as the figures are concerned, that the industry said that we could increase the proportion of Swedish-flagged ships very much. They said: If we get a tonnage tax system in place, we will be able to increase the flag considerably. It was hoped that this would happen when the tonnage tax was introduced in 2017. Unfortunately, this has not been the case. Then we as politicians must ask ourselves why this has not happened. The industry must also ask itself that question. Now we are meeting the industry by proposing in the Tax Committee an announcement, which we Social Democrats support, to review tonnage tax so that it works even more effectively and so that we get the increase in Swedish flagged ships that we want. I also think that Jimmy Ståhl has a point when it comes to waterways and barge traffic. There we need to do more. There is a national coordinator in place, who reviews the interaction of inland waterways and how we should sync ports better. But I think we need to do more when it comes to barge traffic. I look forward to continuing to discuss it on another occasion.
i-897FTnJwRun3Nsa8PvLu2N	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Johan Büser, for your speech! In my speech, I referred to the icebreakers, and I cannot help mentioning them again. Johan Büser says that the Swedish Maritime Administration says they are ready to procure when the funding is ready. Some of what I asked for in my speech was just when the funding will be ready. When is the announcement from the government, Johan Büser? When will the information about the funding that apparently the entire Parliament and the Swedish Maritime Administration are waiting for? I also have a question about the tonnage tax, which I have followed here. It's quite interesting. In fact, when Magdalena Andersson was Minister of Finance, I debated the tonnage tax with her and said that we had to make an evaluation. When we adopted the bill here in Parliament, one of the major parts was even that there should be an evaluation. But every time I've mentioned it, the answer has been that it's been too short a time, that there needs to be more time to make an evaluation. On page 19 of the report that we are debating today, it says about the tonnage tax:- Traffic analysis states in the report Swedish maritime international competition situation 2021( 2021:8) that the introduction of the system so far cannot be linked to any noticeable increase in interest in flagging in. This should nevertheless be exactly in line with what I have been trying to say all along. We cannot adopt a legislative proposal which we then do not evaluate continuously and adapt to the situations that apply. There's got to be something going on here. I can only regret that this has not happened before, but if it does now, I am very much in favour of it. When will the initiative to make an evaluation be taken, Johan Büser?
i-Qaw9E9wJy3ZiFefq44FXpc	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Hansson, for the questions. As far as the icebreakers are concerned, this is a debate that is in full swing. During this year, the design project between the Swedish Transport Administration and the Finnish Transport Administration will be completed. The Minister for Infrastructure has been very clear that when it has been presented, when it is finished, the discussion will be on financing. There is no proposal for funding at the moment. But the Swedish Maritime Administration has clearly announced that when the funding is in place, they are ready to procure. However, I am not concerned about this. The Minister for Infrastructure and Social Democrats are clear that new icebreakers are needed. I and my social democratic colleagues on the Transport Committee met with the Director-General of the Swedish Maritime Administration Katarina Norén just a few weeks ago and discussed the need for icebreakers. There is therefore a full understanding in both the Socialist parliamentary group and the Social Democratic government that we need new icebreakers in place. We must help to ensure that this happens, Mr Hansson. As far as the tonnage tax is concerned, I would like to reiterate that it was the Social Democratic-led government that introduced the tonnage tax on the basis of demands from the shipping industry. Already the government of Persson began a long time ago an attempt to introduce tonnage tax. The government of Reinfeldt chose not to proceed with it. But when the government took Löfven, a tonnage tax system came into place. Then the industry said that if one were to have such a system in place, we would see far more flagged ships. I think it makes sense to let it go for a couple of years. Five years have passed since the system was introduced in 2017. Now it is 2022, and there has just been a decision in the Tax Committee to propose an announcement from the Riksdag to the Government to look at the tonnage tax system and how we can make it more effective, so that we get more Swedish flagged ships. In this way, there will be a thorough search. Then I also think that we can achieve the goals that both you and I have, Anders Hansson : to get more Swedish flagged ships.
i-D6LnTmThW2WBJSFXZwhia1	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for that, Johan Büser! That's great. At the same time, however, the fact that we have not received the flag that we have wanted from the tonnage tax is no surprise. We have seen that over the years that have passed. I therefore put an interpellation to Magdalena Andersson in her capacity as Minister of Finance to get an evaluation as this does not meet what it should. However, I leave the question because I think it is a good thing that it is being raised now. Once again, I miss being proactive rather than just waiting until it is necessary and it is already a fact that we do not get any more flags. I would also like to ask Johan Büser about port infrastructure, which I mentioned in my speech. This is very important. If shipping is to work, it is important that we can get the goods to ports and that we can get it out in the country when it comes to a port. This will also result, inter alia, from the freight transport strategy. We're gonna get a flow of cargo going from the ports up through the country. I do not see any government initiative here that suggests that ports are to be seen as important nodes in the system to provide infrastructure from ports out to, for example, European roads. This would have enabled us to have smooth transport on both rail and ordinary roads. This is somewhat lacking in the government. I know that the national plan is coming, but I would like to ask Johan Büser whether he himself will work with his minister to ensure that the Transport Agency is given a priority and ensure that we have a well-functioning infrastructure to and from our ports. If we don't, the good strategy will fall a little.
i-6M44EprZAqtRPASE7jL5zP	Mr President, I would like to The ports are incredibly important for Sweden. I myself chose in my speech to highlight the importance of the Port of Gothenburg, Scandinavia's largest port, for Sweden. There we are now doing a fairway deepening and dredging, partly with state resources, so that we can also receive the largest ships in the future. In principle, 90% of all our goods come from shipping. When it enters ports, it must of course be transported effectively into the country. It is a matter of livelihood, but to some extent it is also a matter of preparedness in view of the times in which we live. If we are to meet the great challenge of goods, we need to make substantial efforts, not only on roads but also, above all, on railways. It's important. The current government has a very high ambition here. We provide a historically large amount of funding compared to previous infrastructure plans. We are also making a historic effort on the railways, for example. As a West Swedish Social Democrat, I think it is very important. It is about both the section Gothenburg – Alingsås, as mentioned, and the section Gothenburg – Borås. The way up to Oslo is also important, seen from the perspective of the Port of Gothenburg. This is only from a western Swedish perspective. It is important that the Moderates are allowed to confess color. Sometimes in the debate, it sounds like rail is not very important. You don't have the same ambitions. Sometimes regional representatives, such as Johnny Magnusson, get to go out and say that it is very important that the railway initiatives that West Sweden so badly needs come about. It would have been much better if we in this House could have taken a hand and agreed that we need important rail investments. It would be strange if the icebreakers were to be cornered into this. If so, what bets should be removed? We need all modes of transport, and they all complement each other. It's important.
i-FQ87xubJyCoePjwCnwsi4s	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for approval of the proposal in the committee's report as a whole. Maritime transport plays a very important role in the transition to a sustainable society and a climate-smart transport sector. Traffic accounts for about one third of Sweden's emissions, and road traffic accounts for a large proportion of these emissions. Emissions from road traffic are decreasing far too slowly. Moving traffic from road to rail and from road to shipping is therefore a smart and efficient way of reducing emissions. Maritime transport has therefore been a high priority for the Green Party in government during the two previous terms of office. We are now seeing results. Mr Büser explained much of what the Red-Green Government had done. Among other things, we have introduced the eco-bonus, which aims to move transport from road to shipping. We have set up a national coordinator for domestic shipping. And we have adopted a freight transport strategy and implemented a series of measures within it. Transporting more goods by sea is therefore an important issue that we have high priority. However, it is also important to bear in mind that shipping today is largely fuelled by fossil fuels, and in the future more efforts will be needed to re-establish shipping. Mr President, I would like to Electrification is an important part of changing shipping. Electrification can work very well on shorter distances and also in combination with other fuels. There are good examples around Sweden, including between Helsingborg and Helsingör, but more needs to be done to electrify shipping. An alternative fuel that I particularly want to highlight is liquid biogas, so-called LBG. Biogas is an excellent fuel from several aspects, and LBG will play an important role in the transformation of shipping. We therefore want to develop a national plan for the expansion of biogas tank infrastructure, not least to ensure access for shipping and heavy traffic. We are now seeing a pleasant and interesting development. Shipowners choose to skip the transitional solution of LNG, i.e. natural gas. That is of course incredibly positive. Natural gas is a fossil fuel, and it is therefore important that policy allows this step and does not lock maritime transport into a long dependence on fossil fuels. Mr President, I would like to The ports play an incredibly important role in the conversion of shipping. Ships also use energy when they are in port, which gives rise to emissions that, among other things, affect the air quality of our port cities. An alternative to this is to have a land connection to the electricity grid so that it can switch to more sustainable energy and also improve air quality. Ports are crucial for sustainable shipping. It is in ports that there is the possibility of land power and of bunkering sustainable fuels. We environmentalists see that maritime governance needs to be improved. Today, international shipping is not included in the climate target of 2045. Maritime transport is not yet part of the EU's emissions trading system either. Environmental and climate governance must be significantly strengthened. Of course, emissions from shipping must be reduced, just as for all other sectors. We hope that the EU's work with the Fit for 55 will represent important steps forward in strengthening environmental and climate governance. In conclusion, shipping plays a very important role in the transition to a sustainable society, but it also plays an incredibly important role in the Swedish economy. Sweden is a highly export-dependent country. Maritime transport also plays a very important role in total defence, as several other speakers have mentioned. We must work forward to reduce the climate impact of the transport sector. We need to ensure that transport from road to maritime – today the roads for transport are over-exploited – and we need to make sure that we accelerate the transition of shipping so that shipping is more climate-smart and so that we can achieve zero emissions and live up to the Paris Agreement.
i-2UZHZuDvMRXQGELWUavWME	Madam President, I would like In the early 2000s, the Moderate Youth League had a popular slogan: Some teased at it; it was considered boastful to talk about ownership that was not collective. Those of us who had come to Sweden from former Communist countries where ownership had been wiped out understood exactly what this slogan meant: Ownership gives self-determination, independence and freedom. Therefore ownership must be encouraged and facilitated. In addition to these fundamental and soft values of ownership, it is an undeniable fact that, from a long-term economic perspective, owning one's own home is most advantageous. This normally means lower housing costs, and in addition, the value increase that occurs over time for almost all homes provides an extra boost to the savings that the amortisation entails. It takes care of what it owns, and therefore areas with a higher proportion of owned residents are less vulnerable to destruction and other forms of crime. Ownership thus provides both financial security and security in everyday life in the environment in which you are living. The mortgage cap was introduced by Finansinspektionen in 2010. The ceiling means that buyers of dwellings cannot borrow more than 85 per cent of the value of the dwelling as collateral, which means that a 15 per cent cash contribution is required when buying a dwelling. In the past, it had been up to the banks and other financial institutions to decide for themselves how much you could borrow from your home, but in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis, the issue of introducing a mortgage cap was raised in order to reduce the risk of a new financial crisis triggered by a mortgage crisis. In order to further mitigate household indebtedness, amortisation requirements were also introduced in 2016, and a sharp amortisation requirement came into force in 2018. Both the mortgage ceiling and the amortisation requirements have partly met their aim of holding back household indebtedness, but they have also contributed to other problems. Getting into the housing market and buying your first home has never been easy, but the requirements that are now being imposed – and especially the mortgage ceiling – have made it even more difficult. As a first-time buyer, it is natural that there is no profit from previous housing transactions to be used as an aid to the cash transaction. You are often young and have not yet received such a high income. At the same time as buying the dwelling, you should perhaps also set up a dwelling, with the additional expenses involved. Madam President, I would like It is not often I quote Social Democratic prime ministers – either present or former – other than as warning examples, but I shall make an exception. Göran Persson was quite right when he said that the mortgage ceiling needs to be reviewed. He said, "It sometimes becomes completely impossible for hardworking young people to do that, even if they were to pass their repayments. ..................................................... It is far from everyone who has parents who can help with the 15 per cent cash stake, and today's house prices take a long time to save for it. Banks often require only 5% in cash and offer blanco loans for the rest. From a consumer protection perspective, it is much better to have a mortgage with a high loan rate than to have a mortgage of 85 per cent and a blanco loan on the rest. The latter option involves an equally high price risk but higher interest rates, faster amortisation and in every way a more vulnerable situation. Thresholds entering the housing market are far too high. A poorly functioning rental market has made it often difficult for young people to obtain a rental dwelling. And if you get a rental dwelling, it is often expensive housing, which reduces the possibility of saving and postpones the possibility of buying your own home even later in the time. If you do not get a rental dwelling, you may be referred to renting in the second or third hand, with both insecurity and even higher costs as a result – and then completely without the opportunity to save for your own accommodation. Being able to enter the housing market and buy their first home must not be something that is few, privileged, that is, those with high incomes or wealthy parents. It simply has to be made possible for much more than today. Therefore, it is our firm opinion that the mortgage ceiling should be increased to 90 percent of the value of the home and, in connection with it, should be removed from the mortgage loan. The increased risks that the increased mortgage ceiling could possibly give rise to are offset by a reduction in the risks associated with blanco loans. Madam President, I would like I only support reservation l, but we support all our reservations.
i-YcR9zBvusfVHBjLdaaQgVX	Madam President, I would like There have been two dramatic years in the world and in the financial markets. At the beginning of 2020 we were thrown into a pandemic that has cost many lives and caused great suffering to the victims and their relatives. Secondly, the pandemic was costly even in economic terms because we ended up in a temporary recession when communities were shut down and our ability to consume was limited. On the one hand, we had a double impact with a shock to demand and, on the other hand, supply disruptions in global supply chains. When the pandemic's first wave culminated in March 2020, the vulnerabilities in the Swedish bond market were also exposed. Small savers and investors experienced difficulties in liquidating their positions, and companies could not finance themselves by issuing new bonds. At the same time, we saw the world's central banks carry out bond purchases on an unprecedented scale to reduce the financing costs of companies and households. Money policy created free money, and many saw their real and financial assets grow sharply in value. Inflation was low, interest rates were also low, and the investor humor was at its peak. Madam President, I would like When describing what the world looked like just a few years ago, it is hard to believe that conditions are reversed today. Interest rates are, of course, still historically low, but with inflation of 5% and inflation expectations of about double, we see an indication of where we can be heading. An indication also gives the American interest rate curve, which has now inverted, i.e. when the interest rates on sovereign debt have become higher than long-term interest rates, which has historically been a solid Trend Indicator of recession. It remains to be seen whether that is true again this time, but surely at least there is no lack of risks on the horizon. Due to the Russian invasion there is a humanitarian crisis in Ukraine. It also has an economic impact on the world economy, as the two countries together account for 30% of exports of wheat and other important raw materials. Of course, it will add to the cost inflation that the pandemic started two years ago, and combined with political decisions in this House, such as the phasing out of Swedish nuclear power and 50% in taxes on fuel, a powder keg is ready to explode at any time. By that I mean inflation that has a broad impact, erodes real wages, i.e. Swedes' wallets, and creates problems for households and companies. In these times, therefore, it is particularly important for policies to set robust financial regulations, but also to allow prosperity to be created in harsh economic times – if that is where we are going. It is about stimulating savings and investments, about creating an environment where investors and entrepreneurs dare to invest in Sweden. This can be done through fiscal policy, housing policy, labour market policy and also by building safe and secure societies where people do not have to look over their shoulder. For a socialist government, perhaps the lowest hanging fruit is to do nothing at all, i.e. not to spread uncertainty through short-term political moves where the long-term rules of the game become unclear. If people are to dare to put their capital at risk, you cannot have a political leadership that is playing out against ordinary people's savings at regular intervals. Keeping going back and forth with the ISK account – threatening tax increases – does not inspire confidence but only impairs the long-term prospects for pension savings. I could continue and further develop this criticism, but unfortunately time is not enough. Madam President, I would like That is why I am continuing with what is positive today, namely that it has been possible to reach a majority for several important points on financial stability and financial market issues – what we are debating today. Several proposals in the Swedish Democrats' Committee motion, which are included in this report, have been implemented, are being implemented or are under investigation. These include the right to move in the pension insurance market, better conditions for employee options, a reform of the interest rate differential remuneration, start-up loans for first-time buyers, a savings bonus for young people and, finally, tools for managing liquidity risks in the bond market. These sound like technical proposals-- I'm fully aware of that-- but they're things that affect people of flesh and blood, those who run businesses, those who save for retirement and those who seek housing. Let us look at the interest difference compensation as an example. Today there is a situation where banks charge an unfairly high fee if you, as a borrower, redeem a tied loan prematurely. Reasonably, it is behavior that should be encouraged because you repay your own debt, while eliminating the bank's credit risk. Instead, the Swedish banking sector is now almost unique in an international perspective, where the Swedish banks have created a system in which they compensate themselves by collecting interest differential compensation for the bank's potential interest loss. This, of course, contributes to less mobility in the housing market and a less healthy amortisation culture. But this is now changing. I asked the government about this a few years ago. They said no, but now Finansinspektionen takes matters into its own hands and will make it easier, cheaper and easier to amortise and change homes. It is with pride that, over the last two years, half of the Swedish Democrats' proposals in our committee motion have been implemented. These are the things that make it fun to do politics. That is why we have all engaged ourselves politically here, that is to say, to ensure that ideas become reality. The majority of the proposals put forward by the parties in the Swedish Parliament are never implemented. That is why it is always a victory when we can go back to our constituents and show that it is not just talk in this House but that we have the ability to move from words to action and that taxpayers get value for money. Madam President, I would like To conclude, I note in this report a strong commitment across the block to the issue of cash. It is a good signal to the contexts in which the issue is dealt with, including in a reference group where we have the task of answering many of the unanswered questions asked about the cash. What is legal tender? What is the role of cash in the future? Does the position of cash need to be strengthened in relation to today? The starting point of the Swedish democrats on these issues is clear. Cash must remain – point! We have acted in line with this in the past, and we will continue to act in line with this in the future once the matter comes up firmly on Parliament's table. I also hope that the commitment shown by the parties on paper in this report can infect themselves to other contexts. Madam President, I would like We support all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 2.
i-UBZ72oWZmC7y5g6j9FNtK3	Madam President, I would like While we are discussing this report, there is a war going on in Europe. Russia's war of aggression against Ukraine affects everything, of course human, but also such things as relations, trade, economics and jobs. Of course, Sweden's financial stability and financial markets are also affected. In this situation, Sweden has three focus areas: supporting Ukraine, sanctions against Russia and strengthening Sweden. Madam President, I would like Just recently, it was another crisis that also affected us humanly and economically, namely the pandemic. It is not yet completely over, but there are still a few things that we can establish regarding the management of the pandemic. Among other things, the IMF notes that Sweden has been better able to cope with the crisis than many other European countries, not least thanks to significant buffers and generally strong economic conditions. Furthermore, the IMF notes that the robust support measures have been implemented at the right time and have been appropriate. They have helped to avert a financial crisis and stabilise markets. The conclusions are clear. Now, because of Putin war in Ukraine, we are in a new exceptional situation. It is one where commodity shortages are increasing and prices are increasing – on energy, on electricity and on fuel. The whole of Europe is under pressure. The shortage and high prices find their way into inputs, into production, into transport and through to consumers. Our purchasing power broke out. For Sweden, it is important to protect jobs and households once again. The government therefore lowers taxes on petrol and diesel as much as possible and compensates the homes that have received high electricity prices. In addition, the government provides support to families with children with small margins and to pensioners who have it as a bitch – all in order for everyday life to go together. You should be able to work, pay the rent and as far as possible continue to live as usual. It keeps the economy rolling, and it maintains stability. For us Social Democrats, security for ordinary people is the focus. Madam President, I would like The fact that Sweden has coped with the pandemic so well and now has the conditions to deal with the current situation depends on political responsibility and political choices. In the face of the pandemic, the Social Democratic Government had turned the deficit into surplus. It had increased the number of employees in welfare by 100,000 while paying off on public debt. So we went strong into the pandemic. During the pandemic, the government raised the unemployment fund. It introduced short-term lay-offs and provided massive financial support to municipalities and regions to protect welfare. This policy helped to save jobs and businesses, to ensure that people were safe in transition and to maintain a strong state economy and to maintain financial stability. Now we are in a position where this strong economy can be used to once again make efforts to strengthen Sweden. But it does not come by itself, but requires the right policies, because it is ultimately only the state and its robust economy that are the guarantors for us to be able to parry and manage crises. This presupposes responsibility for sound public finances. We Social Democrats have always taken that responsibility, and we will always take that responsibility. Madam President, I would like A recurring cloud of concern in the financial stability sky is high household indebtedness, mainly linked to the housing market. The risk of indebtedness has been highlighted by countless authorities and institutions over the years. To remedy this, the responsible authority, Finansinspektionen, has introduced a number of measures. One of these is the amortisation requirement. Evaluations of the amortisation requirement show that it has essentially achieved its purpose. It has limited the increase in household loans. This has meant that increases in housing prices have been held back. The most vulnerable households have reduced their risk-taking. Not least, the amortisation requirement has led to an amortisation culture. All of this is positive. But, Madam President, the opposition parties, especially those on the right, are questioning this measure. Of course, you can do that. However, it should be borne in mind that abolishing the amortisation requirement would not mean that more people would have a place of residence. On the other hand, this would mean that more people would borrow more, that the bids would rise and that prices would rise. As a result, people would continue to be excluded from the housing market as a result of the increase in prices, while debt and risks would increase. What is needed, in addition to a healthy amortisation culture, is above all that more housing is being built. Therefore, several years ago, the government introduced support for the construction of rental apartments so that more people can find good accommodation at reasonable rents. This was a very successful support. Housing construction broke record for several years. It contributed to jobs and growth, to a better functioning labour market and to a better balance in the housing market. But this particular support took the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats away last winter – to great despair, to be said, for the country's municipalities, construction companies and housing applicants. So, in addition to the fact that the right side does not seem to take the risk of household indebtedness seriously, it has also been ensured that housing construction is actively reduced in the country, which of course means further exorbitant prices of existing housing supply and subsequent debt and risk building – that is, contrary to what all expertise recommends. Of course, we will have to look at this further. Madam President, I would like Sweden's strong economy depends on responsible political decisions along the way, ahead of the pandemic and during the pandemic. In the current exceptional situation, we Social Democrats will see to it what is best for the country. It is about jobs, welfare and security for ordinary people, and it is about taking responsibility for the country to stand strong even in the face of the crises that are coming tomorrow. It's about stability. I support the proposal and reject the motions.
i-CiMq3VDyxD2j5A4boomYcX	Madam President, I would like I did not intend to ask for a reply because I am going to a meeting with the Swedish delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe just now, but I could not allow Björn Wiechels's self-righteous and directly untruthful statements to pass unnoticed. Yes, it is true that the International Monetary Fund commended Sweden for its efforts during the pandemic. But I would like to point out, Madam President, that these efforts came on the initiative of the opposition. The opposition presented the proposals and gained a majority in the Finance Committee, and the government quickly took the opportunity to introduce them and take the credit. Right should be right. The prices of petrol and diesel are higher than ever before, and here is Björn Wiechel telling us that the government has reduced the prices of fuel. Yes, with the knife to the throat because the Moderates and the other opposition parties have demanded this. We have called for both a reduction, to be implemented on 1 May, and a review of the reduction obligation. If Björn Wiechel remembers, the reaction of the Social Democrats was first: We can't. Now Björn Wiechel is taking credit. I have a question. The IMF also says that more job opportunities are needed for young people born abroad. What does the government do to overcome the enormous unemployment that plagues Sweden?
i-HirViwCp8mKdMbGPudJuNi	Madam President, I would like I thank Boriana Åberg for the question. The honourable Member is right, of course, that many of these measures took place in broad agreement. The government and we in the Social Democratic Party have the task of preparing questions, of ensuring that politics is consistent and compatible. This work is mainly done in the Government Office. Parliament does not really have those resources. It has been a good collaboration during the pandemic, but it is probably fair to say that there is a difference in how to control. When the Moderates were dealing with the financial crisis, the unemployment fund was reduced. The welfare of municipalities was not compensated. There were no short-term layoffs. This is ideology. That is what you think is important in politics. We make sure to strengthen welfare, raise unemployment funds and introduce short-term lay-offs. It's Social Democratic politics. When it comes to Europe and prices, it is not so good, we think, to go out and promise things that you cannot keep. We'll do everything in this situation. We can control what we can do in Sweden. We can promise you that. But what is happening in the world and in Europe, we cannot promise that. It distinguishes opposition parties from government parties. Opposition parties can say things they may not have coverage for. A government party cannot do that. Setting up jobs, Madam President, is something we are introducing now to break segregation and for people to get to work. The Moderates are cutting labour market policy. This means that fewer people get to work. This makes more people dependent on benefits. This means that we will have reduced growth and less payments to social security and welfare systems. It is a very boring policy. We make sure that people get into work through efforts. It is above all active labour market policies that we see what makes people go from non-jobs to jobs, not anything else. Then Boriana Åberg has the chance to answer why you actively reduced housing construction in the country and why you do not take responsibility for the housing shortage and the high risks of indebtedness.
i-2UpwfxJKypVQiH7YQsgLQD	Madam President, I would like I would like to point out that the Moderates were better able to cope with the financial crisis than any other country, and Anders Borg was appointed the best finance minister in Europe. As far as the start-up jobs are concerned, we have over 700 000 foreign-borns who cannot make a living, and the Social Democrats have been running the country for eight years. How can you get at work people who lack education and often also lack the will to take the step to a job because the benefits are so high and generous that it does not pay to take the job? Björn Wiechel can come to Malmö, where restaurant owners complain. When they get a job seeker, he or she says, "No, you can't-- I lose by taking a job." This is the policy of the Social Democrats. When it comes to investment aid, which Björn Wiechel thinks was so good, the view is not shared that it was a good measure either by the construction companies or by the property owners. On the contrary, it was completely wrong and did not favour the municipalities and areas that needed the largest construction. Nor did the people who needed to enter the housing market come primarily into the queue. On the contrary, it was the people who had the longest waiting time to get a tenancy agreement that benefited from the proposal. I suggest that Björn Wiechel read the investigation carried out by the property owners and construction companies.
i-RU6ypd3FxMhyjnSyafY6oB	Madam President, I would like During the financial crisis, I was a local politician in Umeå; I was a member of the Social Welfare Board. We saw how people who lost their jobs no longer had an unemployment fund. We saw how the Moderate Government had cut the social security system in order to reduce the tax. We saw how the sex got a long way from the support. Of those who were in the queue for subsistence support in Umeå municipality, 85 per cent came from unemployment – not from other vulnerability, which is usually the reason why they have dependency support. The fact that the Moderates cut into labour market policy and unemployment insurance and did not fully compensate for welfare meant that it was the municipalities that took the fall. As a result, there were tax increases in the municipalities, and many people disappeared from our security systems and got caught up in income support. It was very costly for the municipalities. That's where it landed, and above all, people lost their jobs. The financial crisis hit this country very hard. When it comes to housing construction, it is not just a big city issue. All statistics show how housing construction increased generally as a result of the rent subsidy that we introduced. It is important not only in Stockholm and in the hottest housing markets but also out in Landsortssverige. In my county Västerbotten we have Vindeln, Vännäs and Umeå, which have a lot of plans to build rental apartments but now are extremely worried about whether the calculation should go together because the right parties have removed this support. This means that we have reduced housing construction and cannot meet the growth in northern Sweden. This is damaging the labour market and growth throughout the country. Think again, please!
i-41UV6qVyMRmyRCYXXJmmx7	Madam President, I would like Our society is becoming increasingly digital. We do more and more things with the help of the internet and digital tools. The digital development has made many things easier and more accessible. News and information are spreading faster, and the world is getting closer. It is possible to buy goods from all corners of the world from the home with a few keystrokes. Contacts with authorities do not always have to be handled with paper and physical mail. Different forms of eID, such as Bank-id and Freja e-id, enable you to identify yourself digitally and thus gain access to, among other things, public services in the form of Försäkringskassan and 1177 Vårdguiden. But in line with the increase in digitalisation, we also see digital exclusion. According to the Internet Foundation, 6 percent of Sweden's population live in digital exclusion. It is usually about older people, people in rural areas and households with low incomes. Not being able to use digital services puts you at risk of getting worse and slower service from the authorities you need to have contact with. Madam President, I would like One example is eID. One of the reasons for digital exclusion is that people cannot, want to or may use eID. This includes people who are in stewardship, that is, a good man. Several of them are not allowed to obtain an e-identification because of intellectual disabilities, for example. For a good man, it will be impossible to use digital services from, for example, 1177 Vårdguiden if the person you are good for cannot obtain e-identification. Existence becomes much more complicated when all certificates and applications have to be sent by post. Contacts with healthcare and, for example, re-booking of doctor's appointments cannot be made digitally and must be done by telephone or by mail. What requires only a few button pushes for most people is a slow and time-consuming process for the good men who are supposed to be in charge of the mission – and this in a situation that sometimes already requires a lot of work to make ends meet. I have heard testimony from parents who are good men for their adult children and have been advised to go into the website to take care of matters relating to, for example, compensation or care. When they have announced that it is not possible because e-identification does not exist, the answer has sometimes been incomprehensible. There's a gap in the system here. Madam President, I would like The banking-id rules are governed by the banks that provide the service, and they decide for themselves who gets access to the service. Freja e-id is a state-approved mobile eID used by several authorities and municipalities. There is a newly launched function with shared control. The helper initiates the activation, and the helper confirms in his own Freja app. When the user will then log into an e-service or make an electronic signature, both parties must approve the transaction in their respective Freja apps. But it requires that both have e-identification. All those who are not allowed to obtain eID are still excluded from parts of the digital services offered by the public in Sweden today. There should be an opportunity for good men to use digital tools for the people they manage. That is why I support the Left Party's reservation 14.
i-GUKccqeVs7H9rkUkmj7qw4	Madam President, I would like Now we are going to discuss VAT, or VAT, as we say. Maybe it's the treasure that involves our citizens here in the country the least. But it does not involve politics least – we see that in this VAT report. There is tremendous creativity in how to reduce VAT on all sorts of strange services, which I might think is completely wrong. Taxes, including VAT, shall be reasonably high. As a moderate, I believe that we have a clear problem with today's high taxes on labour. When you work and have income, the biggest expense you have is tax. If you cross the breakpoint and pay government taxes, as much as 52 per cent of your income goes to tax – about 30 per cent in municipal taxes and 22 per cent to the state. This is completely wrong and unreasonable. The state tax should be removed, or at least reduced in a first step. Ultimately, it is our prosperity and our common welfare that are hampered when we tax work, education and people who run businesses. The big problem in Sweden is that it pays too bad to work. The starting point for the Moderates is that taxes in Sweden are too high. We have the third highest tax burden in the world, and it's not getting any lower. In these years, the Social Democrats have increased 46 taxes, and the worst is the tax on labour. Of course, it is possible to say a lot about how different VAT rates should be. A uniform VAT system should be reasonable. This was the case from the beginning in the last tax reform carried out under the leadership of Kjell- Olof Feldt and others. Then there was uniform VAT. It's very healthy and good, I think. As you know, there are currently exceptions to exceptions, often staged by the Center Party, which in this House have made proposals to remove a little here and a little there, not least in the case of adventure companies. If you visit Åre and drive snowmobiles with a sloat after, VAT is 6 percent. But if you go to Åre it is not to save money but to spend money and get an experience! That's crazy! Of course, we Moderates exclude tax increases regardless of whether it concerns taxes on labour or VAT. Here is a clear dividing line in Swedish politics. Madam President, I would like VAT is the most legitimate tax. It is a consumption tax that each individual can consider paying or not. That's what you consider when you consume. Should I buy a new car, I know that 20% of the price is VAT and 80% is the price of the car – money that goes to the car manufacturers and to the sellers. Tourists and undeclared workers pay VAT; they do not get away with it. There are people who work black, but the VAT they can't get away with, it gets the government in. Therefore, VAT is an extremely effective tax. VAT is the second largest revenue of the state. This is about ECU 500 billion. The largest is employers' contributions, which are over 800 billion. The energy tax has been extensively discussed in recent years, particularly the sharp increases in taxes on fuel and electricity. Now there have been proposals for a cautious reduction, and we will see where it lands. What is remarkable is that there is double taxation on both fuel and electricity. Everyone who has received their electricity bill knows this. On the latest invoice I received, the cost of network charges was higher than the cost of electricity itself, even though it is both VAT and tax on it. This also hits the transport sector, agriculture and, not least, our households hard. People who do not live in big cities are particularly hard hit by fuel and energy taxes. There is significantly lower electricity cost in the apartment than in the villa. We Moderates are guarantors of lower tax pressures. The bourgeois government under Fredrik Reinfeldt reduced the tax burden by 280 billion and received 45 more due to dynamic effects. This is easily forgotten. It is easy to be a politician and say: just raise the tax, and the state must have money. But the state should not be successful at the expense of every human being in all weather. Let's say you've built a villa and lived in it for 40 years. Your children have moved out, and now you want to sell the villa and move to an apartment in old age to have less work with mowing lawns, hedges etc. If you sell the villa with profit, the state will take 22% of that profit. It is unreasonable that there is such a high tax on it. With the government's policy of raising taxes during the current term of office, it is difficult to hope that the government will have any ambition other than to raise taxes further. Let us really hope that there will be a change of government after the elections. I have mentioned that several taxes have been raised. I hear there's 46 of them. Symbol taxes like the plastic bag tax are almost the worst. It is absolutely incredible – that you should pay taxes on a plastic bag when shopping in the store! And this House has agreed to that. It's unbelievable! Ordinary people get less money in their wallets. Fuel taxes and, in particular, electricity taxes are skyrocketing. We don't see any end of this. It torments households and ordinary people who work and go to work every morning and behave and contribute. Now comes new fees that you don't want to talk about. It's about expanding wind power, offshore wind power. The cost of the transmission lines has not been reported there. It's big money. There are experts who say that financing these lines will cost each household about 5,000 more a month. There are no wires out in the sea, but at Ringhals and Forsmark there are wires. Expand the nuclear power! The socialist tax campaign continues in old order. It doesn't look like anything better we have to expect! I request the approval of reservation 12 by Niklas Wykman.
i-Tid6XGFBpn4sLVX5uzkJ6e	Madam President, I would like Value added tax or VAT, as we also call it, is a relatively effective tax on consumption paid by the final consumer by a good or a service. The standard for VAT is that in principle all turnover of goods and services in an economic activity carried out by a taxable person shall be taxed by 25 %. From this there are a number of exceptions. In total, VAT is estimated to amount to SEK 546 billion for 2022, making it one of the largest sources of income in the state. Throughout the 21st century, value added tax to the State has increased every year, with the exception of 2012, when it fell marginally. In the report we are debating today, Sku16, two announcements are addressed to the government. It is primarily about the conversion of premises and offices into housing. In a report, the Boverket has concluded that there are obstacles to such transformations. These include the deduction of VAT on construction costs if the premises after conversion are still used in activities subject to VAT. This deduction is no longer possible if the premises start to be used as a dwelling. It is positive that a unanimous committee wishes to announce to the government that tax legislation should be reviewed in order to remove these obstacles. The second notice deals with VAT on internal services, and it concerns non-profit associations such as sports associations, study associations and registered religious communities whose economic activities aim to promote the public benefit objectives of the organisation. At present, the assessment is often made that internal services purchased within the same organisation are subject to VAT, which hampers the non-profit sector. This announcement, which calls on the government to examine urgently how the issue of internal value added tax between associations in the same organisation can be resolved without causing distortion of competition, is also positive, and the Swedish Democrats have supported this announcement. The question of distortion of competition is part of EU law, and the Swedish VAT system is largely based on the EU VAT Directive. This also means that we do not have control over all parts of our VAT system ourselves. One could say that we have four VAT rates in Sweden, where 25% is normal. Then there is 12% on food, for example, 6% on books and newspapers and 0% on banking, financing and insurance services. It is a relationship that the EU has approved. The system of differentiated VAT rates entails certain problematic boundaries and definition issues which in some cases may be perceived as illogical or deeply unfair. The tourism and tourism industry has also experienced for a number of years several proposals for regulatory changes as well as actual changes in VAT rates, which have caused problems with pricing, not least in terms of already pre-booked and part-paid travel, arrangements and the like. There is a need for fair taxation and harmonisation of VAT rates linked to the tourism and tourism industries. We want to see an investigation into the conditions for further harmonisation of VAT rates for different tourist attractions, where equivalent activities are taxed more uniformly. We have also proposed similar in the cultural sector. Madam President, I would like Healthcare VAT has led to significant increases in the activities of health care providers who employ certified health professionals who are self-employed or self-employed – this in a situation where health care has over a period of time had to quickly increase capacity. We saw this not least during the pandemic period. As recently as today, we could read that 76 percent of 212 primary health doctors believe that the staffing is inadequate. And that's where the health claim has been a serious obstacle. It was a survey conducted by Swedish Television that we could read about this morning. Here's how it is, as I said, at a time when capacity needs to increase. Reimbursing for health care VAT means an increased administrative burden. And the doctors who answered SVT's survey say that this is the big problem: that you have to spend an unnecessary amount of time on administration when it is actually care you need to spend your resources on. Among other things, Denmark is mentioned as a positive example. But in Sweden nothing has improved lately. As Sweden applies a number of exemptions from VAT, certain situations arise where an investor wants to offset input VAT and outgoing VAT against each other but is not able to do so. As a result, new activities do not develop naturally, slowing down the growth of the economy. This may be the case for real estate companies that want to rent out premises where different types of business do not find it possible, so renting and therefore investments are not possible. We have therefore pushed for the possibility of voluntary taxation of business premises to be investigated. Madam President, I would like I believe that Sweden needs to safeguard national sovereignty in the area of taxation and to counteract any move towards greater supranationality. Instead, we should seek cooperation on voluntary intergovernmental and global tax treaty networks. This is the best way to create equivalent rules for the management of VAT. If the EU develops its own system and the rest of the world has other systems, there will be risks of these differences being used for tax planning purposes. The conditions for using tax planning are reduced if we apply similar principles globally. The Swedish Democrats have therefore long advocated that we cooperate multilaterally in a voluntary intergovernmental form within the framework of the OECD in order to achieve success on the issue of tax evasion in the field of VAT. Madam President, I would like I'm in favour of reservation number two.
i-NgQBB8hcaXo39dqx4sGAb9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are debating VAT, VAT. I believe, as other speakers before me have pointed out, that the income tax that we pay once a month is the tax that gets the most space in the debate. VAT, for its part, is a tax that we pay almost every day when we shop. It is not discussed as much. However, VAT is not a tax on the margin. It accounts for a large part of government revenue. I have seen some indication that in 2016 VAT was estimated to represent 40% of the state's tax revenue. Unlike income taxes and corporate taxes, VAT is a relatively – and I mean relatively – easy to understand tax if you are a consumer. It is a mark on the product or service you buy that is not dependent on your income but on the price of the product and what it is. However, there are some different VAT rates that are not easy to understand, but there is no progressivity, and the exceptions are relatively few. This was precisely the point when the current VAT legislation was introduced in 1969. It would be the same for everyone, and it would be relatively easy for the state to tax those who consume goods and services. How did it get easier? Well, the state simply takes the help of companies to collect this tax. In 2015, more than one million companies registered for VAT received VAT and paid it to the state. There will be a number of transfers per year, and then it must be an understandable and simple system. Madam President, I would like My view is that from the individual's perspective VAT may not cause any major problems, but it is different for companies and the non-profit sector. It's enough to say care moms, dance band moms, rent moms and in-house moms to get a little pressured atmosphere when you're out on company or business visits. There is, of course, no such thing in VAT legislation, but the undesirable effects of VAT legislation quickly give rise to their own infamous concepts, and this is a sign that this urgently needs to be reviewed. The so-called care VAT suddenly put caregivers in a completely new situation, following interpretations by the Tax Agency and judgments in the Supreme Administrative Court. This was when the skills in the form of hired personnel became much more expensive. This is something that we in this House have had to deal with in terms of the budget proposal, in order to compensate health care providers throughout the country. After an initiative in the Tax Committee, the government set up an investigation that would review a possible legislative change to address this. The accounts that came last summer gave little hope. As far as I know, the government is still preparing this matter. In the meantime, we need to patch and fix the VAT system in order to avoid undesirable effects that hit health care directly, often in rural areas. Madam President, I would like It is difficult to understand why different levels are sometimes applied within the VAT system. The best example is probably the old candy dance band mom. It is difficult to see the logic of a 25 per cent tax on culture in the form of music and dance, while culture in the form of music alone is subject to significantly lower VAT. The VAT rate for music activities should reasonably be the same regardless of whether the audience or the audience dances to the music or not. And if you are to make changes in VAT, it must be quite well anchored and predictable. Otherwise, there will be additional burdens for companies. I note that my moderate colleague commented, for example, on VAT for guided tours, with which visitors have been subject. At the same time, I note that it is regrettable that the Moderates do not really understand entrepreneurship in rural areas. A few years ago, when VAT was increased in any budget, it struck against visiting rural businesses – without warning. It was not now expressed from the speaker's seat, but at that time there were quite avalanche comments about beaver safari. It is interesting to take Åre as an example. We know that rural areas, especially ski resorts, need to develop entrepreneurship that brings tourists all year round. And right here, rural businesses operating all year round are very important. The issue of VAT rates, and many others, has been investigated. Results have been presented in a report, A new VAT law. Let's see what it leads to. This, too, is still being prepared in the Government Office. We'll have to watch and push. Madam President, I would like There is another area where changes need to be made. This applies to the so-called rental VAT, where the effects have become what no legislator in the world could have had as an intention. I'm talking about VAT-related business in real estate rentals. Due to the regulations, property owners sometimes choose not to rent out to non-profit associations because they are exempt from VAT. The necessary investments can be undone because property owners cannot deduct VAT. For purely economic reasons, it may be easier for property owners to leave premises empty than to rent them out to VAT-exempt activities, such as sports. With the current regulatory framework, there is a risk that sports associations will either cease to be non-profit-making, because it is hampering their activities, or are forced to increase fees. The Center Party believes that society and the non-profit sector must be protected, and we see that problems in legislation are at risk of forcing the corporateisation of non-profit activities. Then something needs to be done. There is something very pleasing. Just a few weeks ago, we read a position from the Swedish Tax Agency that provides a solution to the proposals. It is proposed that it change next summer, but I hope it can be done much earlier. Madam President, I would like Let me conclude with something positive. Later today, the House is expected to decide on two announcements to the government. One is to review the rules for converting premises or offices into housing. Today, VAT rules slow this down. If there is anything we need, there is more housing, so this is welcome. The second announcement is to review the so-called internal VAT. This is something that the non-profit movement welcomes and that we have worked for a very long time. Several seminars over the years, just a few weeks ago, have shown that sports associations, study associations, faith associations with others are forced to become tax experts instead of carrying out their activities that they are good at. An organisation with local associations that cooperates on, for example, member management or administrative systems is forced to do internal VAT invoicing, which steals time and resources. That this is to be reviewed is a very long-awaited decision, and we expect and hope for quick delivery by the government. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Committee for its good cooperation on this issue. I request the approval of reservation 10.
i-RHGd422kphqsM5ppRqCf7z	Madam President, I would like The Moderates are absolutely not against entrepreneurship in rural areas, Helena Vilhelmsson. I myself have run a company for 26 years out in the archipelago. VAT isn't about that, it's not about anything. If you are an entrepreneur and you are liable for VAT, you do not get a cent from it, but it is the state that receives the money. However, you can administer VAT and manage it without getting a penny in compensation from the state. This cannot be confused with the fact that the Moderates are against entrepreneurship in the countryside, because it is a whole vurpa. We are really in favour of entrepreneurship in rural areas and throughout the country – everywhere – but having different VAT rates on different services is, in principle, wrong. That's what I said.
i-SSHXNY7NQCXtaR7tJBZGnk	Madam President, I would like I thank the Moderates for the clarification. Uniform rules are, of course, the best, but we must be aware that uniform rules can also have undesirable consequences. Then you have to look at who creates inconsistency. In this case – regardless of the way in which it is handled – the conditions for many entrepreneurs who happen to be in rural areas, who run natural businesses and who carry out VAT activities were changed with a pen-threshold. It became more complicated for them, it became more difficult and it became a negative effect in recruitment because things became more expensive. You cannot ignore this, Kjell Jansson, but I am very pleased that the Moderates are making a statement here that it was not meant to affect rural businesses. But that's what actually happened.
i-WTdeg5xo4c8xvkREn6pWdy	Madam President, I would like What complicates this is that there are different VAT rates. Makes it messy. For a while when I was running a business, we had 12.87 in construction VAT, and I bought the goods for 25 percent. Getting out 12.87 was a hell of a mess, I thought. It is much easier with straight, simple rules and the same VAT rate. If it should then be 25 or 22 per cent in the future, one can always discuss – the Germans have 22 per cent. I think we need to review this and remove the VAT exemptions, because that is bad. VAT is the best and most effective tax. Everyone pays VAT, even those who work black. It is the only tool for getting taxes that is fair, because you choose for yourself if you want to go shopping for a new sports car or buy a smaller car.
i-RmRVRYW8xRipxA8NrH8dco	Madam President, I would like Basically, we are in complete agreement on this. However, my criticism is still a little that the conditions for entrepreneurs changed very quickly. It's unfortunate, no matter who's causing the changes. I hope we can work so that it won't happen in the future.
i-UaF7Qsg13zKz5AjFH7gx4i	Madam President, I would like The VAT system is known, or possibly notorious, to be anything but simple. According to the Business Council, tax rules are the most common source of the regulatory burden that many entrepreneurs bear witness to. Not infrequently, VAT is the cause of problems. The various VAT rates 6, 12 and 25 % bring with them a wide range of bordering problems. Perhaps the most common example, highlighted in the VAT debates, is that there are different VAT rates on cultural arrangements depending on whether the audience sits down or stands up. If the audience sits down, the tax rate is 6 percent, but if the audience stands up and perhaps dances more than quadruple the tax rate to 25 percent. Another industry hard hit by inconsistent VAT rules is the tourism industry. For example, guided tours have different VAT rates depending on where they are carried out and also depending on which vehicle is used. If you sleep in a boat in a guest harbour 25 percent VAT applies. If you spend the night at a campsite, 12 percent VAT applies. Madam President, I would like Anyone who reads through the various motions in the report quickly finds many more examples of VAT rules that are or seem unreasonable. A list of complicated VAT rules could probably be endless. The various tax rates, the numerous exemptions and exemptions from the exemptions are a constant source of headaches for many entrepreneurs and organisations. Indirectly, of course, individuals are also affected by this. But I think there is a bigger problem here, and that is that when tax rules appear inconsistent, confidence in the tax system and, by extension, in the State itself are put at risk. This would be very damaging to our society. The Christian Democrats want a VAT review. The aim shall be to simplify and harmonise VAT. Simplicity for those concerned must be the guiding principle in that work. Madam President, I would like I have highlighted in a large number of debates in this House the impact of taxes and tax rules on the non-profit sector. The non-profit sector and society are an inalienable part of our society and a fundamental part of our democracy. It is therefore important to shape taxes and tax rules so that they do not disadvantage the non-profit associations. In the area of VAT, there is a great deal to be done from that point of view too. VAT makes everyday life difficult for a large number of associations. I am therefore very pleased with the announcement proposed by the Tax Committee to be addressed to the Government, which concerns the so-called internal VAT. This is a problem that many associations have encountered. Today's legislation places VAT on local associations that are part of a larger whole when they use support that has been developed within and for their own organisation. These include, for example, services such as member administration, legal support or IT support that the national organisation has developed to support its local associations. The services are provided only within the organisation itself and are tailored to the needs of the organisation. The aim is for those who are active in the organisation at the local level to be able to spend time and energy on the association's main purpose rather than on administration. But, rather, because of state rules, it is the opposite when you suddenly have to administer and pay VAT. Now the government is being given the task of investigating this issue, and, as the report says, we Christian Democrats expect the government to act quickly on this issue. Madam President, I would like It is also very positive that the committee now wants to address an announcement to the government to review tax legislation to make it easier to adapt the existing property portfolio to the requirements. Today, the tax system discourages the conversion of premises or offices into housing. That is, of course, very regrettable. It is a good thing that the committee is united in this part. But there is a need for a broader change in this area. Today, property owners can be connected to the VAT system voluntarily and then pay VAT on purchases of materials and services, for example. As long as the real estate owner then rents out the premises to another activities subject to VAT, the property owner may deduct his or her VAT costs. However, if the VAT tenant leaves the premises and a new non-VAT business wants to move in, problems arise. When a tenant who does not carry out a VAT-related activity has to rent a premises, the landlord can no longer deduct input VAT. This makes property owners' purchases 25 per cent more expensive. What is even worse, however, is that the VAT deductions that have been made must be refunded a full ten years back. Madam President, I would like As a result, instead of renting out, premises are empty. The result is also that sports associations and other non-VAT organisations find it much harder to find a place to be. The Christian Democrats believe that the rental system must be investigated in order to facilitate the rental of properties and premises to other than VAT-related activities. This would improve the efficiency of the use of premises. This would mean that the association life could spend less time hunting premises and more time on its activities. It would also make it easier for property owners to adapt their business to the demand that exists. Madam President, I would like Of course, I support all the reservations that the Christian Democrats have on this matter. However, in order to save time at voting time, I only agree to reservation 4.
i-NYF99xkDc95JWHJ6oPm3Z5	Madam President, I would like I support the proposal in the committee's report and reject the reservations. What we are debating right now is VAT – VAT. When you listened to Kjell Jansson you could get the impression that we are discussing income tax. But that is not the case; it is about VAT. Although Kjell Jansson was very clear that the Moderates do not want to raise the tax, I can remind him that the Moderates raised the tax by 80 cents in Kumla. That's quite a lot. Just because you convert property tax into a municipal property tax does not mean that you have removed a tax. You have just introduced another tax that you call something else. Then I wonder whether Kjell Jansson intends to propose that we leave the EU in relation to these rules. But he may have to comment a little later. It is interesting to hear both the Christian Democrats and the Moderates in this case. At least I understood that Hampus Hagman wants to reduce VAT, while Kjell Jansson talked about how they want to harmonise VAT and have 25 per cent on everything. I think there will be an interesting negotiation between these two parties. But, as I said, what is now being debated is the report and the motions on VAT by the Committee on Taxation. According to most of the exercises, there is a desire to investigate reductions or changes in VAT in various areas. The committee proposes that the Riksdag reject most of the proposals concerning, among other things, changes in tax rates, studies of various effects and aspects of VAT and exemptions from VAT. Madam President, I would like Since we are talking about a report, and not many people know what a report is, I was going to read aloud from the report what the committee has written. There are two areas in which the committee agrees that there needs to be a review of VAT. The first area is that we want the government to quickly investigate the question of how internal VAT between associations in the same organisation can be resolved without causing distortions of competition that are contrary to EU law and without increasing the risk of fraud with VAT. As Helena Vilhelmsson said, we had a seminar here in the Riksdag with various organisations. What was mentioned there was that smaller, non-profit associations have to pay VAT on services from their national, regional or local federations if they provide internal services within, for example, IT support, member management and grant reporting systems. Of course, I share the view that associations and non-profit organisations are doing a great job. It may be that you have football training, help the homeless, give homework or practice folk education. It is important that we get this right. We believe that they should be supported with regard to the problems that have arisen in organisations that operate at different levels and contain a number of different legal entities, as I have said before. The committee therefore proposes that the Government should urgently investigate the matter – as a matter of urgency it also means, of course, doing it properly, and it must be orderly – so that the issue of internal VAT between associations in the same organisation can be resolved. The risks of VAT fraud shall also be taken into account in particular. We have seen how some so-called creative companies are trying to get their hands on taxpayers in the event of changes to different rules. Madam President, I would like The second area on which the committee agrees is that VAT legislation should be reviewed so that it does not unnecessarily reduce incentives to convert premises and offices into housing. I do not need to repeat what has been said. However, the committee notes that the VAT rules for the conversion of premises and offices into rental properties are unfavourable. I think that everyone who has talked about this has also been clear about the fact that the committee believes it is clear that greater flexibility is needed in the regulatory framework in order to make it easier to switch the existing property portfolio according to what is required. The committee therefore believes that the government should review tax legislation so that it does not unnecessarily reduce the incentives to convert premises or offices into housing. This has been preceded by important motions from both the Left Party and the Moderates. I can only say, well done! I therefore call for the proposal in the report to be approved and for reservations to be rejected.
i-VhtDSSW3pjwo3sixRccEVn	Madam President, I would like I am very pleased that today we can show unity here in Parliament on an issue that civil society has been trying to highlight for over a decade, namely the issue of removing internal VAT. In fact, we have long been in agreement across party boundaries that union life should be free of tax when it comes to public service activities. But it has not worked as the legislator had intended. It'll take a move. Invaluable non-profit efforts are being made throughout our country every day. It is about dedicated people who train youth teams, fellows who support lonely older people, study circle leaders who strengthen education and cashiers who manage the association's bookkeeping in the evening after work. When major crises occur, civil society is fast on its toes. We saw it when the great wave of refugees came in 2015, and we see it now that the refugees from Ukraine have arrived. When the Migration Agency does not have resources, volunteers from sports associations, churches and study associations welcome people, screw up furniture and collect clothing. In my municipality of Arboga, sports associations organise a try-on day for all children. And in the neighboring municipality of Västerås, volunteers spent the whole weekend in the association Together We Make Difference and prepared over 100 Easter eggs for the newly arrived Ukrainian children. Everything that is done in civil society contributes in different ways to strengthening our society. It improves public health, strengthens democracy and creates community. In order for all that to work, for people to feel that they can concentrate on the fun and important of association life, it should be easy to run an association. It must be easy to apply for municipal, regional and state grants and easy to account for, book and declare. The non-profit organisations with their public benefit purpose are something completely different from profit-making companies, and it should be seen in our legislation. Madam President, I would like For us in the Left Party, it is important that there are public contributions to civil society, and we see that the vast majority of associations want to do the right thing. They are trying to get as much activity as possible for the resources they have. This is one of the reasons why most major associations in several parts of the country have also organised themselves at different levels. You have local associations, you have district level or regional level and you often have a national level, a federal level. You call it a little different things in the different organizations. It is about making things easier for the local level. For example, it helps to finance joint employment at regional or national level, which can provide professional support when it comes to administration, finance or IT systems. This will, of course, result in expenditure on salaries, premises and administration and will invoice the member organisations at lower levels for the services they perform. Some of the services carried out have in some cases been deemed to be subject to VAT over the years. Of the contributions that we politicians intend to make to the real business, 25% need to go back to the state in the form of taxes. That's not what we were thinking. This VAT that you may or may not have to account for is something you have to set aside money for. There is great uncertainty, and it is stressful for all the cashiers who try to manage the association's finances in their free time. All of us who are active in associations – and we are politicians, because our parties are also associations – know that cashiers do not grow on trees. It's hard to get people to join us today. Only in the Swedish Sports Federation, which activates around 3 million Swedes, there are around 19 000 cashiers who can be forced to start with VAT returns unless this changes. Of course, there will also be extra work at the Swedish Tax Agency, which needs to support the non-profits. Of course, those resources are not free either. Over the years, the transactions of different parishes and associations between their different levels of organisation have been assessed in slightly different ways, and it is now time for us to give the government a mandate to clarify the legislation once and for all. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude, as I began by saying, that I am very pleased that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is proposing approval of my motion and that of the Left Party on the abolition of internal VAT. I also support the committee's proposal as a whole.
i-FxVaDrgGvWEFtXS9hEe1Lw	Madam President, I would like There is much to say about taxes in general and VAT in particular. The general attitude of liberals with regard to taxes is that we should not have higher taxes than is necessary, but that there are of course reasons why we jointly fund important functions in society such as school, police and social services. I intend to focus my speech on the two announcements contained in the report. We Liberals are committed to civil society and people's willingness to contribute through voluntary work. It builds trust in our society, and it creates belonging and a context. These are important elements for a prosperous society. Madam President, I would like Non-profit associations are exempt from income tax in respect of economic activities in order to contribute to public benefit purposes, for a number of reasons. One reason is that every hour non-profit leaders spend on training knottar in football, gymnastics or floorball. One reason is that every evening nonprofit forces put on language cafes, soup kitchens for homeless people or youth activities within the church. One reason is that every weekend non-profit leaders arrange study circles on home preparedness in the event of a crisis or war, on how an association board operates or rehearses with the theatre group. Every crown that goes to nonprofits creates the conditions for thousands upon thousands of activities and members who spend their free time making a difference. Madam President, I would like Today, however, not every crown goes to the sports movement, study associations and religious communities to create the conditions for voluntary activities. A lot of crowns go back to the state in the form of VAT. The so-called internal VAT often affects larger organisations where there are systems to internally support local departments with, for example, IT support, administrative assistance or other things that, for practical or financial reasons, are chosen to coordinate within the organisations. The alternative to this would have been for the non-profit forces to spend their time on administration or fighting with IT systems instead of training the kids, leading the theater group or man the soup kitchens. Madam President, I would like The fact that non-profit associations can be exempt from tax needs to apply fully, even when they invoice within their own organisation. That is why the issue of internal VAT needs to be investigated and a solution that does not distort competition or increase the risk of fraud is presented as soon as possible. There is a united committee behind this announcement, and I am pleased to note that my individual motion has therefore been approved. We will be closely monitoring developments on this issue, together with all the non-profit associations that are currently being imposed on intermems, even though they are exempt from tax. Madam President, I would like I would like to say a few words about the second announcement in committee, which concerns a review of VAT legislation so that it does not unnecessarily reduce the incentives to convert premises or offices into housing. Today we are seeing quite major changes on the local and office side. Business goes from stores with warehouses to showrooms, where the goods you order in the store are delivered to you from large central warehouses instead. We see how office space is used more efficiently. More people work remotely a few days a week, and the need for office space decreases in some places. The fact that VAT legislation has been identified as an obstacle when a local can be converted into a home very badly rhymes both with the developments that we see in the office and local markets and with the fact that there is a large housing shortage in many parts of our country. A minor change in VAT legislation is likely to be a low hanging fruit for further housing in already existing buildings. Therefore, the Government should urgently investigate the matter in accordance with the Notice. With that, Madam President, I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-FGMcUygHaPKgppyxN8JHdk	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Sku20 report of the Committee on Taxation, which deals with the strengthening of environmental governance within bonus malus. The government proposes in the bill that the bonus malus system be tightened up again. The underlying motive for the government is that the transition to a fossil-independent vehicle fleet should be accelerated. The amendments are proposed to enter into force on 1 June this year. In order to reduce CO2 emissions, environmental measures need to have a clear effect. Environmental and climate policy needs more cost-effective measures and less symbolic policies. Environmentally friendly transport is a cornerstone for a successful climate change, and for this, among other things, we need to develop charging infrastructure throughout the country as well as investments in expanded nuclear power to meet the increased demand for electricity. Madam President, I would like Bonus malus is not an effective action. It penalises the possession of vehicles and not the emissions themselves, which must well have been the idea from the start. No, the bonus malus system has not met expectations, and according to several authorities there is no clear positive effect in terms of emissions reductions. Both Konjunkturinstitutet and Riksrevisionen have criticized the bonus malus system, among other things, for being expensive and ineffective. These are points of view that really should have been taken into account as the government continues to expand and worsen an already poor tax system. There are more effective instruments and measures to reduce total emissions than to expand the bonus malus system. Madam President, I would like Even to the extent that any form of bonus malus system is considered an appropriate instrument, the government's handling and adjustments of the system are unfortunate. Bonus money has, among other things, disappeared abroad to a large extent. The government has recurrently during bonus malus' short lifetime adjusted levels and limits for bonuses and for malus, and it has definitely damaged the legitimacy and predictability of the tax system. We need to be able to rely on decisions made and on their validity for a reasonable period of time. How can you plan your car investments if there is no long-term perspective? Another criticism has been that the system does not distinguish between different types of vehicles, nor does it take into account the benefits of transport. For example, a minibus is hit by the same bonus malus rules as a small passenger car, although the minivan can transport far more and in this respect is actually more efficient. The current bill is another example of the bonus malus tax being neither long-term nor predictable. It also has a built-in injustice in that some are to be taxed year after year because other people buy electric cars. This system is fundamentally very unfair. The bonus malus tax hits the countryside hard. The Moderates are clear that the cost of climate change should not be completely passed on to the sparsely populated and rural areas, where many depend heavily on the car. Sweden is a country with great distances where the car is a necessity. Taxes on the car have been significantly increased in recent years by the current government, which is another example of this proposal. In addition to substantially increased vehicle taxes, diesel and petrol taxes have also been substantially increased since 2014. Madam President, I would like Swedish diesel is now the most expensive in the world. In addition, the tax on company cars has been increased by the government. It is also clear that the reduction obligation has led to high fuel prices. We have much higher demands for reduction than the EU has because of how the government has imposed the duty, and this has driven prices up sharply. In the near future, the government is also expected to abolish the current travel deduction system, which could mean a new tax shock of several thousand SEK a year for someone who commutes a number of miles to work by car. The government's proposed tightening up of the Malus bonus system may mean an increased Malus tax of several thousand SEK per year. The Moderates want to abolish the bonus malus system. The Swedish Parliament should reject the Government's proposal for a strengthened bonus malus, which is another deterioration of an already inadequate tax system. Madam President, I would like I commend our reservation 1.
i-2FHtM4815sThenZjTX1rZ3	Madam President, I would like What we are debating here today is a reinforcement of the bonus malus system. This is a system that intends to contribute to reducing emissions from Sweden's transport sector by 70% from 2010 to 2030. The Swedish Democrats are and have always been firmly opposed to the Malus bonus system and believe that it should rather be phased out in its entirety. The mere fact that the government's funds for the so-called bonus money for 2022 ended already in January is, of course, a sign that the vehicle exchange had continued even without tax subsidies and penalties. Madam President, I would like Now, then, the government is tightening the limits on which cars are to be hit by Malus, and so there will be more car owners who will be subject to penalty taxation. Which cars, then, will be the main victims of the proposal we are debating today? These are primarily small and petrol-efficient cars – many times the second car that many families who do not have public transport to go to and from work, pick up and leave the children at preschool, go shopping and so on have. A small, petrol-efficient car that today costs SEK 360 in annual tax will have a tax increase of as much as 450 percent over the first three years. This will further strengthen the incentives for those who cannot afford a new electric car to postpone their new car purchase, which will lead to the Swedish fleet of fossil fuel driven cars rising in age rather than being replaced by newer and cleaner, albeit fossil fuel driven, cars. According to professional assessors, the government's policy increases the average switching time for vehicles by several years as a result of the reverse effects arising in connection with bonus malus. The fact that the car fleet will be older also shows the increase in demand and prices for second-hand cars. According to the car trade site Wayke, second-hand Wayke rose by good 20 per cent in 2021 compared with 2019. Another proof of this I got during the meeting some of us had with the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and entrepreneurs from all over the country the other week. The entrepreneur I was talking to was actively looking for just used service cars for his employees who were at least three years old and who were then no longer hit by Malus' punitive taxation. Madam President, I would like While we are subsidising the price of new electric and environmental cars, it is a natural consequence that the second-hand price of these very vehicles is also decreasing accordingly. If you choose between a new and a used environmental car, you obviously expect the bonus you get if you buy a new car. What, then, is the consequence of this lower secondary value? The desirable scenario would have been that those who cannot afford to buy a new electric car could instead buy a used electric car. Instead, it turns out that we export a large part of the tax-subsidised second-hand electric car fleet from Sweden to Norway and Norwegian motorists. Chalmers has researched this and concluded that one in three Swedish-sold climate bonus cars will be exported after two years, which means that Sweden will lose about 200 000 tonnes of CO2 emissions reductions while the Swedish taxpayer will lose about 45 billion in environmental car premiums if exports continue in the same way until 2030. This not only results in Swedish taxpayers involuntarily subsidising CO2 reductions for other countries, but also in increasing and delaying Sweden's emission reductions compared to if the cars had remained in Sweden throughout their lifetime. Even heavy consultation bodies such as the Institute of Economic Affairs and the Swedish National Audit Office have independently identified the bonus malus system as inefficient, costly and unfairly distributed between the city and the countryside. They point out that it is another behavioural tax that, in the long run, risks eroding government tax revenue from road traffic. Madam President, I would like There is another fundamental problem with government policy linked to a desired electrification. The government has driven – and is still operating – an energy policy that means that we are increasingly seeing times with power and power shortages in the Swedish power grid during the year. At the same time, this will be met by the Government's ambition that more and more people will drive electric cars. Furthermore, it is not just about cars being driven on electricity. An increasing proportion of society and industry is expected to be electrified and computerized, while at the same time reading about industry's lack of investment in southern Sweden due to the fact that electricity supply cannot be guaranteed. Stability in electricity supply is already threatened by the government shutting down, or rather penalising, Swedish stable power sources that do not emit carbon dioxide and intend to replace them with sources that are partly weather-dependent and also emit more carbon dioxide. More carbon dioxide? naturally asks the friend of order. Yes, the oil-powered Karlshamnsverket broke its last record from 2010. No less than 28,000 tons of oil was used. In other words, more than 30 million litres of oil are burned to secure the supply of electricity in Sweden. That was eight times more than what was used in 2020, and it meant emissions of 90 000 tonnes of carbon dioxide. Madam President, we do not consider this to be an effective environmental policy. We in the Swedish Democrats obviously want to reduce emissions from the transport sector. However, we believe that these set sector targets are both ineffective and expensive. Of course, the lowest hanging fruit should be picked first. When it comes to electrification of the fleet of vehicles, we need first and foremost to ensure that there is enough domestic fossil-free electricity and enough power in the network all year round to charge the electric cars. We also need to ensure that there is a charging infrastructure worthy of the name in Sweden, also alongside the major European roads. However, the internal combustion engine will still play a major role in the transport sector in Sweden for the foreseeable future. More research efforts are needed here to develop domestically produced biofuels to fill their minds instead of the 85% that we are importing today. Finally, bonus malus is a symbolic measure that primarily rewards those who can afford to buy new expensive electric cars and who leave the bill to those who, for various reasons, cannot buy a new electric car. The system has also given car types such as motorhomes and light vans excessively high vehicle taxes, while there are still no corresponding bonus options for those car types. Although the Swedish Democrats support our two reservations in the report, on the one hand, the rejection of the proposal and, on the other hand, the abolition of the Malus bonus system, I choose to endorse only our reservation number 2.
i-GRkWR7pV83gsu1E2kfp6rk	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the bill on tightening up the steering effects of the bonus malus system. I would like to begin by calling for approval of the proposal. Sweden has high ambitions in the climate transition, especially because it is a matter of not putting our children's and grandchildren's future at risk by not acting on the need for climate change. As a small country with excellent industries, we have also ensured that development and therefore jobs are ensured by being at the forefront of change. The target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions from domestic transport by 70% by 2030 compared to 2010 requires more efforts. Bonus malus is a tool. In order to achieve zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2045, the transition to a fossil-independent vehicle fleet needs to be continued by increasing the requirements in line with technological developments in the automotive industry. BONUS malus increases the share of low-carbon light-duty vehicles in new car sales. The vast majority of charging cars currently in use have been registered since the introduction of the bonus malus system. Sweden is at the top of European comparisons of the proportion of chargeable cars on sales. Older fossil driven cars are phased out. Technological developments are fast moving, and more and more vehicle manufacturers are switching to electrified vehicles. As is well known, the Bonus Malus system provides bonuses in connection with the purchase of certain vehicles with low CO2 emissions. Vehicles with high emissions of carbon dioxide receive instead of increased taxes, the so-called malus. The pace of conversion needs to increase, and new car sales are an important part of our ability to adapt the obsolete fleet that we have. Criticism emerges in favour of some kind of pay-as-you-go policy in the bonus malus system. Let me put it this way: if we are to talk about distribution policy, it is not new car purchases we should talk about. To those who are turning for people who have poor economics and difficult to buy a new car, I can say that this will never be able to be adjusted with this system. It's about making sure people have a job to go to. Then they can afford and buy a new car. With regard to the poorest families, who have the worst economy, I refer to the government's spring proposal for those who want to look at distribution policies. You can't solve that with the bonus malus system.
i-3dMqV74PidFz2JSFEbmHEC	Then we come to the issue of rural areas. I live in sparsely populated areas in Norrbotten. Electric cars can be driven where we live too. The idea that electric cars cannot be driven in large parts of the country must be stopped. We drive electric cars in Pajala, Jokkmokk and Piteå. It is clear that there are places in the country where it is difficult to drive an electric car, but this is mainly about charging infrastructure. We need to expand it. Stop talking about electric cars not being able to drive in much of the country! It's like pretending electric cars are like an old ex-iphone. We're moving fast, and we're going up there where we live. In large parts of our county and our neighbouring county, it is actually a matter of ensuring that we produce the conditions for the green conversion in the car industry. The Bonus Malus system is an instrument. As we have heard debaters quite correctly say in this House, the National Audit Office has made criticisms, not only against bonus malus but against the overall one, for example because there is a lack of transparency. However, it is also noted – as the person who reads through the report sees – that overall, the measures taken have an effect on the conversion of the car fleet. I commend that report to everyone in this House. The model for the Swedish bonus malus system comes from the French model for bonus malus. There are criticisms of the fact that a change is taking place. But it is in the nature of the system itself. The model was introduced in France in 2008, and it has been revised nine times since then. It has thus been part of the model from the very beginning. We have talked about the need for this system to be turned on. We made a decision last year and are taking another one now, and there will have to be more. It is about the long-term prospects for the industries. To pull away and remove bonus malus is really a way to pull away the carpet. But with an awareness that we will screw in the model to achieve the best climate benefit, it provides long-term conditions. Let's talk about what it looks like. On the whole, however, we should say that there is a consensus in business and politics about what we need to do in this area. This applies to both objectives and instruments. Through Fossil-free Sweden, many important strategies and methods have been developed. It is clear that in this House we have slightly different opinions as to where adjustments should be made. The question that has just been raised about some of the cars going to Norway is clear that we need to look at. But then throwing the baby out with the bathwater is a completely different matter. For God's sake, never believe that you solve the distribution policy with bonus malus! It takes place in completely different parts of the tax system. I would like to hear more about this at another time, when one is so fond of talking about distribution policies and injustices. The future for those of us who live outside the big city is not to hinder the development of the green transition in the car industry. Rather, it is the transition that is the prerequisite. That's where the jobs come from today. In Skellefteå, Luleå, Boden, Gällivare and Kiruna jobs will explode. We certainly need the car, but we will also need the electric car. There is a need to expand the electricity grid and expand the electricity infrastructure. It is important to ensure that we have more opportunities to buy electric cars. Then the secondary market will also come to those who cannot afford to buy a new electric car. It's the same with fossil-dependent cars. They can't afford to buy new fancy cars with the lowest income! They have the same conditions regardless of this. Instead, we are talking about jobs and tax-sharing policies.
i-L53Fg7si4BpCj1s7MDh7XF	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. We are here to debate bonus malus, a fundamentally very good principle for reducing emissions and encouraging efficiency improvements and innovation in the vehicle fleet. In fact, emissions will never be reduced as long as new fossil cars continue to be purchased. However, the current system is inadequate. There is supposed to be a balance between revenue and expenditure, but today the revenue is too small. This is due, among other things, to the fact that the time span for the Malus bit is too short. It's only three years old, and it's too cheap. Too many leasing cars are leased out in three years, and once they enter the secondary market, incentives to choose an environmental car such as used car have been drastically reduced. The Center Party has long been in favour of extending the period to five years in order to counter this. A more dear problem is that the bonus payments have become more than expected. When the Moderates say that this system hits the countryside, Jämtland County is responsible for keeping my charging post and qualifying for 2020 for a shared first place in newly registered electric cars. Unfortunately, the government has not had sufficient foresight in adjusting this system in the way we are going to do here today. This should have been included in the autumn budget, because it has long been possible to see that new car sales have been higher than expected. With better anticipation, we can also create clearer rules of conduct and predictability for both consumers and businesses. Today's bill does not take care of the problem that so many environmental cars are exported after they have been purchased here in Sweden and the initial bonus has been paid out. This system error must, of course, be corrected in order to prevent the money from continuing to leak and to counteract the system itself. Unfortunately, the government has not complied with the climate action plan negotiated with the Center Party and the Liberals in this respect. The BONUS Malus system simply needs to be reformed much more than is actually the case in today's proposal. However, the only thing that would be worse than agreeing to this inadequate proposal is to reject it, because then we are left with a system that is even more inadequate. Somewhere, however, it is what we actually decide on and what actually becomes real politics that counts in the end. For this reason, I and the Center Party support the Government's proposals.
i-8fQMpG4WGgF2DdAMJABpQ1	Madam President, I would like The bill and the report that we are discussing now propose some marginal tightening up of the bonus malus system. The Left Party thinks that this is a good thing, but much more needs to be done to make this system robust, have sufficient environmental integrity and be able to stand on its own feet without being dependent every year on large government funding as it is today. The good thing about bonus malus is that it drives technology towards new environmental cars. Of the approximately 300 000 new cars sold in Sweden in 2021, almost half were rechargeable vehicles; 45 per cent were pure electric cars or charging hybrids. It is much thanks to the Malus bonus system that we have such a high share, perhaps Europe's highest share, in terms of the sale of rechargeable vehicles. But as I said at the beginning, the marginal changes the government is making. The biggest problem with today's bonus malus system is that it is not self-financing. Originally, the idea was that cars with large emissions would get higher taxes while cars with low or no emissions would get a bonus. The dirty cars would thus finance the introduction of environmental cars. However, this has not worked for any year, as far as I know, and the spring budget proposes almost 4 billion extra going to the bonus malus system. It is not reasonable; it is far too much money. The Left Party also wants an upper ceiling for which cars should be able to get a bonus at all. This has now been proposed, but that ceiling needs to be lower. Climate bonuses should not be awarded to very expensive cars, because those who buy these cars can afford to pay the full cost. We want to get clean electric cars for ordinary people, and that's where this money is going. We also need to look at something similar for the secondary market so that we can bring down the price of clean environmental cars on this market too. The bonus should also be higher for biogas cars. They are often forgotten in this system. When we in the Left Party negotiated with the government about the bonus malus system when it was to be introduced in Sweden in 2018, it was we who made sure that the biogas cars came along. The bonus should be higher for pure biogas cars, as biogas reduces emissions by about 80%. Biogas is also a fully circular fuel that makes a great deal of use, not just for reducing emissions. Madam President, I would like Bonus malus in all honor. It drives new environmental vehicles, which is a good thing. However, much more needs to be done to achieve our climate targets, in particular the target of the transport sector reducing its emissions by 70% by 2030. Then we need to reduce emissions from the transport sector by about 9% annually. Of course, this is not enough, but a great deal more needs to be done. For example, we need to develop charging infrastructure throughout the country, and this must be done on a much more structured scale than is happening today. Today, the government is making contributions to those who set up charging poles, but the government then takes no responsibility for the whole. It is about where the charging poles are set up, about having a unified payment system for our charging infrastructure and about having charging infrastructure across the country. This needs to be addressed urgently. We also need to regulate away cars with emissions. That's why the Left Party wants to ban new car sales of fossil-powered cars by 2025. We need to invest in a transport-efficient society. It is not sustainable with the mass carism we have in Sweden today. We simply need to travel less with our own car. Then we need to invest more in public transport and make it easier for people to walk and ride. We need better charges and tax systems in order to reduce mass cars. It should be easier to be in a car pool, and we will have more of shared trips. There is an extreme amount of work to be done here. Finally, there has been some talk about distribution policy, including by Hannah Bergstedt of the Social Democrats. I agree that we do not solve the great injustices of adjusting taxes on cars with emissions and bonuses on electric cars. At the same time, it is something that fundamentally hurts when we go in from the Treasury with several billions each year to finance new purchases of cars. That's not how the system works. I therefore regret that the Socialist Government has not overcome the problem. This could have been done simply by raising the malus, the tax on cars with large emissions, and also by setting an upper ceiling for how much can be paid out and for which vehicles. All of this is mentioned in our separate opinion, which I would like to refer to.
i-RYBKhbCrY5S51woYnNfi8Q	Madam President, I would like You can begin by stating that this is an exciting subject. I note on the list of speakers that about half are from the Transport Committee and half are from the Tax Committee. We have almost a composite committee right now, I was about to say. I think I will soon hear from the Green Party that bonus malus is a fantastic success story. I've already heard from M and SD that it's a disaster. I guess the truth is somewhere in between. It is a fact that new car sales for rechargeable are increasing, and are increasing strongly. But it is just as much a fact that the costs of the system run smoothly and have run smoothly all the time. It is based on the design of the system itself. This is a variant of green tax exchange. Here is the idea that anyone who, for example, buys a new vehicle that goes on diesel or petrol should be involved in subsidising the buyer of an electric vehicle. That's how far it works in theory. However, when the differences between buying a diesel vehicle and an electric vehicle are as great as they are today, so that the registration of new cars becomes mainly electric vehicles, the phenomenon arises that you have a tax deficit. To be clear, too few people buy diesel vehicles so that we can afford to subsidise electric vehicles. Madam President, I would like Of course, you can do as the Left Party proposes. You go into the system itself, you make it even more expensive, and you put restrictions. It's quite possible. But this will probably mean reducing the share of new car sales for the electrified. This is really where the dilemma arises with bonus malus. It's a system that's pretty hard to dial in. There are advantages, but there are also clear disadvantages. Another such disadvantage that is quite obvious is how we handle mobile homes and light trucks. It is very difficult when you come out and talk to people to motivate the system when you see what negative consequences it has. There is another question which at least I miss in the debate. It is the long-term nature of different systems. I listened to one of the previous speakers who said that the system's model is based on us changing, and that's pretty much it. There's only one little catch. The more people who drive on mainly chargeable with electricity, the fewer pay into the entire traffic system. It is the Norwegian dilemma that is beginning to emerge. You have a large amount that runs environmentally friendly. But they do not pay taxes for the vehicle that is in the traffic. An electric car takes as much space in a parking lot as a diesel car. An electric car causes as much congestion in Stockholm or Gothenburg as a diesel car. We Christian Democrats have tried on several occasions to point out, and we also highlight it in our specific opinion, that it is probably time to start discussing a total tax reform in the field of transport. Our proposal is, in fact, based on the idea of mileage tax. There are some who say: Kilometer tax we do not want. I can understand this if it is the case that we introduce mileage taxes in addition to current taxes. I'm sure the business community would go to the roof. I've been out to see a lot of truckers. They agree with me on a mathematical example. We assume the vehicle pulls 1 liter per mile. If you drive 100 miles, you've raised 100 liters. If you drive 1,000 miles, and we still assume it's pulling a unit of energy, you've run up 1,000 liters. Then you have a mere mile tax. It's just that we have it at the pump. The whole debate on mileage taxes is actually going to be pretty weird. We pay today for what we do, but we pay by pump. But we do have a system that will subsidise anyone who acquires an electric vehicle via bonus malus. To some extent, I agree that it subsidises those who have more money and more advice. They then don't have to pay for driving in traffic. It won't last long. There will be a reverse of solidarity, I was about to say. What we are trying to highlight as a party is that we need to start from a variant of kilometre tax that takes into account the environmental performance of the vehicle. That system shall take into account the time and time during which the vehicle is used. I could well imagine having a tax system that is digital and that means that when you drive goods out into larger cities in the evening, traffic tax might be zero. But if you do it during peak hour maybe it should be high taxes. There are many organisations that have begun to raise the issue that we need to start looking at it. We miss Christian Democrats. I do not believe that this will be introduced for the next four or eight years. However, I believe that sooner or later we in this House, or those coming into this House in the autumn, will have to look at the whole system. Bonus malus in this discussion is nothing more than a temporary system that has good intentions but unfortunately contains a lot of problems. Another problem that it contains is that we have an ageing car park. I was just over a year ago buying a van myself. I'm a hunter, and I'd love a little car to get into the woods with. My salesman says to me, don't buy a new one. Buy this one that's gone 2,000 miles. Why should I buy a used car when I have the opportunity to buy a new car? Because you're having these big tax effects. It was therefore fiscally profitable to choose the slightly older car. We are creating a system in which we encourage the ageing of the vehicle fleet. It is neither good environmental policy nor good road safety policy. Several have already highlighted another effect of electrification. That's that it's good, but then we also need electricity. Here is a catch if everything is to be electrified: industry, shipping, aviation and cars. We're getting a critical situation where we have a shortage of electricity. From a Christian Democrat point of view, we believe that we must face this with wind, sun, small-scale hydroelectric power, large-scale hydroelectric power and nuclear power. It will not be so simple that we will be able to choose. We need more electricity if we're going to get through Norrland. We need more electricity if we are to pass southern Sweden. We must be able to do that together. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by saying that I was a little surprised when I read into this report. We are a few parties that decided on a budget last autumn. Should you go on the reservation that exists, you will remove 210 million of the budget base that we ourselves supported last autumn. Madam President, I would like I suspect that when we vote on this this afternoon, two parties will then go out in the media, on Facebook and Twitter and tell them: We said no to bonus malus. Madam President, I would like That's not correct. Last autumn, the budget was accepted. At least I will remind you of this if you try to argue that you have said no to something that you have actually said yes to. In so doing, I refer to the specific opinion of the Christian Democrats.
i-SGuADbyH1JjNHEHLsaGRKm	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating more stringent environmental management of the bonus malus system. The transport sector's climate target of reducing emissions by 70% by 2030 relative to 2010 requires a technology shift to zero-emission electric vehicles. Liberals believe that the polluter pays principle should apply. At the same time, the State should not subsidise private consumption. Therefore, the Liberals were initially opposed to the bonus malus system. But since the system through the Malus part should be self-financing, now that the system is in place, we have chosen to accept it. In view of the fact that in the short period of ten years we need to switch the fleet of vehicles with new technologies, the state may in some cases need to facilitate the transition at the beginning and provide support of the type of bonus due to the higher cost of new technologies. Liberals have been convinced that electrification would be rapid once the supply of electric cars at reasonable prices increased. Our concern, therefore, was from the outset that the bonus malus system would not become self-financing. It is positive that the number of rechargeable cars is now increasing rapidly. In February 2022 more rechargeable cars were sold than fossil driven cars. However, this means that the bonus part exceeds the Malus part. In 2021, the funding for the bonus part of the scheme was 2.9 billion. But the demand for rechargeable cars was far greater than the government had planned, and an extra 1.9 billion needed to be added to the bonuses could be paid out. The bonus malus system is being drawn because of the under-financing now with a debt to the taxpayer. The system was supposed to be self-financing. However, the Bonus Malus system is rapidly losing its importance. It is no longer the prospect of having their new car bought subsidised or of avoiding the malus payment for a fossil car that makes people buy electric cars. Half of all cars sold are rechargeable, and a quarter are pure electric cars. The conversion is driven by the fact that the electric car is becoming a better economic business than the fossil-powered car. People also want to do what they can to reduce their CO2 emissions. The fact that the supply of electric cars has grown sharply while the scope has improved and prices have fallen has made electric cars a realistic option for many more than before. The car buyers choose electric cars for their performance, because the purchase prices have fallen and because the operating cost is lower than for cars with internal combustion engines. In particular, the lack of charging infrastructure may lead to the buyer's waiving. The Bonus Malus system is heavily underfunded. Taxpayers are allowed to spend money year after year when the bonus part exceeds the Malus part. The Liberals, as I said, warned against this precisely when the system was introduced. The government's efforts must now shift the focus. The government should not finance private consumption – except possibly initially in a technology shift, as I said. Now that rechargeable cars account for over 50 percent, we have left the initial stage behind. Instead, the focus must be shifted to a rapid roll-out of charging infrastructure in places where people live and work. All parking spaces where cars are parked between a couple of hours and up to a day should be available for charging. In addition, a comprehensive and well-sized system of high-speed chargers needs to be developed across the country. It is to build charging infrastructure that the state is needed now and a number of years ahead. Therefore, the Liberals spent most of all on charging infrastructure in their budget for 2022. We spent 3 billion more than the government. We need to see the whole system of climate change for road transport. The most important areas are delivery-proof electricity generation, proactively expanding electricity grids, charging infrastructure in homes, work and rest areas, and rechargeable vehicles and, not least, fossil-free battery production. These are the most important areas for us to cope with climate change. All these factors are involved, and bonus malus is part of that whole. An instrument is essential for a certain period of time and will then be phased out in favour of other, more effective, instruments as the market develops. The falling prices of electric cars, which are approaching the price of internal combustion engines, mean that it is high time that the bonus malus system started to be phased out. Liberals have proposed a reduction in the bonus part in order to balance the system. It is reasonable for the bonus part to be completely abolished by 2025, because that is when it is believed that fossil-powered cars will cost about as much as rechargeable cars. The Malus part needs to remain for a further period of time to pay off the debt built up through the system's under-financing. Madam President, I would like As the bonus malus system will remain for a while, there are a few things that the government needs to deal with in the future. Among other things, we need to have a much better anticipation of changes in the system. It must be predictable for all those car buyers who make a big investment with private money. The government's way of changing conditions once every six months is not sustainable. The system must be predictable for at least five years; then you may need to have a control station halfway to make adjustments based on market developments. The government also needs to review the handling of light trucks and mobile homes. The system must be adapted to the availability of fossil-free alternatives, which is largely lacking in these areas. Now we are starting from the fantastic development on the passenger car side, but we do not see the same development in light trucks and motor homes. Here there must be a change in the system, perhaps through a separate bonus malus system that takes into account the special conditions that apply to light trucks and motorhomes. It is to be hoped that the number of options within these categories will also increase, as they do in heavy goods vehicles. Madam President, I would like Regarding the distributional consequences of the system: People with lower incomes cannot afford to buy new cars whether they are rechargeable or fossil driven. With bonus malus we quickly drive a second hand market with rechargeable cars at reasonable prices so that more can choose a rechargeable car in the future and thus contribute to climate change. That is where we see that there is a distributional win by pushing on bonus malus. We're creating a used market. The changes the government is now proposing are steps in the right direction, but they will not be sufficient to avoid a deficit occurring even in 2022. The demand for rechargeable cars continues to increase, which is positive. Nor does the government make any proposals aimed at achieving the basic idea of the bonus malus system: that the system should be self-financing. Then we mean that it is about adjusting the bonus levels. It is time to phase out the bonus part of the bonus malus system to 2025 and instead invest in charging infrastructure. In the light of what I have said, we support the strengthening of the law in order to increase self-financing, but otherwise refer to our specific opinion on phasing out the bonus in the system.
i-VpPvFqMQQ6NEARGxYZ7wkb	Madam President, I would like When you talk about the transport sector's conversion, you usually mention the three bs: the car, the fuel and the behaviour. We're gonna talk about the car. Let me stress why the car is more important than in a long time. This is because the other two bs are opposed by virtually everyone in this House except the Green Party. Let us look at the fuel, where all the parties in this House, except the Green Party, have now gone forward with massive reductions in fossil fuel and a eroded reduction obligation. This will make it almost impossible for Sweden to reach the climate targets. As far as behaviour is concerned, most parties in this House are making new major motorways in the metropolitan areas. Both fuel and behaviour will make it harder for Sweden to reach the climate targets precisely because most parties in this House besides the Green Party are pursuing a policy that is going in the wrong direction. That is why the car becomes particularly important, and that is what we are talking about today. I am very proud and happy that the Green Party has pushed through bonus malus, which we are talking about today and which is perhaps top two or top three among the most important climate instruments in Sweden. In terms of results, it is an exceptional success. It is not possible to describe the reform in any other way when you look at the effect it has had. First of all, of course, it is about Sweden being the second best in the world on rechargeable vehicles. It's only Norway that surprises us. They started their work quite a few years ago, before the Green Party came to power. When we came to power, we started the work of rearranging the fleet, and now we are on the heels of Norway – a bit behind but still the second best in the world. This brings relief to rural areas in the short and long term. Looking at who needs the car, you can see that it is people who may have a little further to their jobs, and for those people this is a very important reform. Among other things, it is about not taking the detour via the gas station. If you can charge at home, you have the opportunity to go straight to your jobs. But above all, it means an operating cost that is like one third of a fossil car, which means that very many will be able to get to their jobs for a cheaper money, simply. It is those who want to keep Sweden in the fossil economy who are responsible for those who cannot get to their jobs in a reasonable way. The last thing to do with bonus malus is do what the Moderates want to do among other things. They do not want to tighten up the system, which means that the system would be even more underfunded. The policy of the Moderates involves taking money from taxpayers, from nurses who pay their taxes and watch that money disappear into the pockets of rich car buyers. That is the consequence of Moderate politics. But what the Moderates want to do is also a smock against the countryside. Bonus malus is about which cars we put on the market now and what consequences it has for ordinary people who can demand to buy a used car in three years' time. With the Moderates' proposal – I am now trying to take this very educationalally – there will be much fewer electric cars on the market now, which means that in three years' time, when ordinary people have the opportunity to ask for second-hand cars when they come out on the second-hand market, fossil cars are to be turned to. We know that fossil fuel prices are high and are likely to continue to rise. In practice, this means that it is those people who have to pay those prices. It is they who will take that blow if the policy of the Moderates becomes a reality. This is about short- and long-term distribution policy. Which cars do we put on the market now? What are the consequences for those who can buy a used car in a few years' time? With Moderate politics, they get a heavy cost in their stomachs because they get stuck in fossil dependence. The Moderates' proposal is a long-term distributional disaster, in other words. Then let's look a little forward. First of all, I must mention that, as I said, this is one of three b's. We cannot continue to have mass motorism in our cities as we do today. We must reduce driving where it is possible to do so, so that those who really need their car have the opportunity to drive it. Then we need to change how we transport in our cities and agglomerations – have more time – cycle and public transport, favour the alternatives and gradually phase out the excessive mass carism that exists in our cities. The congestion tax is a very good example of a reform that you should be working on more. Charging infrastructure has been mentioned. There too, I am proud that for seven years with the Green Party in the government, 100,000 charging poles and charging points have been built with public support. The Alliance's eight years in power amounted to 2 000 – 2 000 versus 100 000. So we are well on our way there, but much more is needed. We need to expand into white spots where the market cannot achieve it, and we need to ensure that communities, housing associations, tenant associations and so on have the opportunity to bring charging infrastructure to their homes. But when it comes specifically to bonus malus, why is it underfunded? Many have raised that question. Well, it's because most politicians in this House have listened to Volvo and those players who don't want us to tighten up the system time and again. It is simply cowardice and non-responsiveness with taxpayers' money that has led us to where we have ended up. The Green Party has said from day one that we must continually tighten the system, otherwise it will be underfunded. This means that we need a higher malus and a sharper bonus, a tapered bonus that goes to the absolute best, not to large suvhybrids bought in Djursholm and day commutes into Stockholm city. We should not favour them with taxpayers' money. It's unreasonable in every way possible. Raise the malus and sharpen the bonus to make it slimmer but more effective! It's really simple math. It is not difficult to count on just about what you can levy on the tax and what you will have on expenses for more electric cars. And finally, at a point in the future, we will have to remove the fossil cars completely from the market. It should happen in the near future, says the Green Party. By about 2025, no car should be sold that is dependent on fossil gasoline and diesel. Of course, this has implications for bonus malus, but up to that point bonus malus should be one of the most important instruments we have in this country to reduce emissions. I would like to express my approval for the tightening up. I also refer to my particular opinion.
i-Bkch22AdTVwZvsvWVNHcJy	Madam President, I would like Ali Omumi worked as a business developer at ABB. He paid taxes and had bought a home where he lived with his family. But he was expelled from Sweden because his former employer lacked certain insurance policies. Rameez Hussain worked as a senior app developer at an IT company in Stockholm. But the Migration Board decided to expel him because five years ago his former employer chose the wrong insurance package for him. Unfortunately, Ali and Rameez are far from alone. And as a result of the skills expulsions, we have not only expelled talent from Sweden but also discouraged countless talents from coming here and contributing. What did the government do while Sweden expelled talent and blackened the country's reputation in international highly qualified labour? Well, it set up an investigation, but not to stop the deportation of skills, but to identify whether they occurred at all. That survey, Madam President, could only be done by opening the paper. When this was clear, we Moderates gathered a majority of the Moderates, Christian Democrats, Sweden Democrats and Left Party to change the guidelines for the investigation so that it was given a clear mission to stop the competence expulsions. It is because of this – not thanks to the government – that we in this House today can press the button to, hopefully, stop once and for all the demonstrations of competence. I'm very proud of that. Madam President, I would like It is therefore a good thing that the Government's proposal to stop the expulsion of competence is to be put forward in its proposal. There are also other things that are good in this proposal or at least in the right direction, but there are also important parts that are missing. Amongst the proposals that go in the right direction but do not go far enough is the proposal to introduce a supply requirement for relatives of migrant workers. It is quite absurd that it has not existed in the past at all. But better late than never! However, we Moderates believe that the requirements are too low and want to raise the levels and see fewer exceptions. Unfortunately, I need to dwell for a while on the parts missing from the bill. Above all, I want to lift four parts. First of all, more needs to be done, in addition to stopping the skills demonstrations, in order for Swedish companies to be able to compete for the sharpest brains. Among other things, it is about reducing the regulatory burden, shortening the processing times and improving the conditions. We Moderates want to see a 30-day guarantee for the administration, a one-stop-shop to Swedish authorities for highly qualified workers and also a reformed expert tax. The fact that highly qualified people can come here and contribute their knowledge and drive is essential for Sweden's growth and well-being. Secondly, Madam President, the workforce that already exists in Sweden but is now outside the labour market needs to be better exploited. Among the long-term unemployed, more and more people are out of work and as many as 675 000 people born abroad of working age cannot support themselves. We have the biggest difference in unemployment between domestic and foreign born throughout the EU. Yet thousands came here in 2019, the last year before the pandemic struck, from countries outside the EU to work in cleaning, fast food restaurants or as newspaper carriers. Is that really reasonable? I don't think so. Sweden's successes and our common welfare are based on work. Much is therefore gained if job opportunities in occupations that do not require training or limited training are carried out to a greater extent by the labour force that already exists in the country. The Moderates have made it clear that Sweden needs a comprehensive benefit reform that makes it more profitable to move from grants to work but also that parts of the labour immigration regulations need to be changed. Today, a salary of 13 000 SEK a month is enough to come here from another country to work. It's an unreasonably low level to get here from across the world, and it opens up for cheating. What we lack in the government bill is a stricter wage requirement for work permits. Work permits should only be granted if paid pay equals at least 85% of median salary, which would mean more than a doubling of the current wage requirement. Seasonal employment shall continue to be exempted in accordance with current EU rules. With a sharp rise in wage demands, the opportunities for labour migration to occupations with substantially lower qualifications will disappear. It does, together with a benefit reform, that more people who are already in Sweden but do not support themselves will take those jobs. Madam President, I would like The abuse of the labour immigration system is significant and very serious. The Swedish Economic Crime Authority states that the abuse is one of the single largest crime areas in serious economic crime. Thirdly, I miss in the bill a stop to track change. Track change is an opportunity for asylum seekers who work to apply for a work permit when they refuse their asylum application. The rule is abused by people who come to Sweden with the intention to work first seeking asylum and using the benefits it gives to change tracks. It also involves a confusion between the asylum system and the system of labour migration, which runs counter to the principle that the asylum process should have a clear conclusion. The possibility of a track change should therefore be removed. But the Social Democrats do not think so. Instead, they commissioned the investigator to consider extending the possibilities of track change. That's going in the wrong direction. Finally, fourthly, there must be a stop to the labour migration of personal assistants. Scandal after scandal shows how big the problem is, and according to law enforcement authorities there is a clear link between labour migration to personal assistance and organised criminal arrangements. It exploits vulnerable people, it exploits our generous welfare system and it exploits Swedish taxpayers. It has to be stopped. Madam President, I would like The high tone of the Social Democrats on the issue of labour immigration has probably not escaped anyone. However, the proposals put on the table by the Social Democrats are not close to the ambitions expressed in debates and on the press's debate pages. And the proposals that were finally presented had not largely seen the light of day if it were not for the work of the opposition to push ahead with the Social Democrats and bring about amendments to the investigative directives. We have noted this difference between rhetoric and delivery and also noted that the Social Democrats do not really seem to have any close friends to settle on these issues. Together with the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats, we have therefore moderated out a hand to help the Social Democrats reach the majority required to move from strong words to a proper workshop. We proposed cooperation for, among other things, raising wage demands and stopping track change. The answer has not been answered, but my offer remains. The Social Democrats can stop the cheating if they just want to. Personally, however, I am convinced that it takes another government to do so. It takes another government, a moderate-led one, to get Sweden in order. I request the approval of reservation 12 in SfU19 and of reservation 17 in SfU22.
i-4NrYfXWDDTePWxYrmwifFu	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the proposal to be approved in the SfU19 report and rejecting all reservations there. In the SfU22 report, I am in favour of reservation number 21. Otherwise, I support the proposal in the report. Sweden has a very generous labour immigration system in an international context. Swedish legislation does not in principle distinguish between different types of labour immigrants based on, for example, educational or wage levels. Since 2008, it is also the employer who determines whether there is a need to recruit a labour force outside the country and what skills are required in such cases. Instead, in most comparable countries, different categories of migrant workers are distinguished and measures have been taken to promote immigration of highly skilled workers in particular. Sweden should be a country that is attractive to the foreign skills required by the labour market, and the regulatory framework should be perceived as reasonable and predictable by those concerned. However, we should not compete with bad and arbitrary conditions for workers. In order to maintain the legitimacy of the system, it is important that there is a balance between measures aimed at facilitating workers and employers, on the one hand, and measures to combat abuse of the acquis and the exploitation of labour immigrants, on the other. The framework should also be designed in such a way as to simplify as far as possible the handling of the Migration Agency and enable the Agency to keep short processing times. Madam President, I would like It is important to address the problems of the exploitation of foreign workers. There have been many examples, as we also heard from the previous speaker here. Labour immigrants from countries with poor living conditions may be willing to accept a very low salary and other substandard employment relationships in the absence of better alternatives. They may also have used their savings or been in debt to move here. Such workers are highly dependent on the employer and may be forced to accept less favourable conditions of employment than those on the basis of which the employment offer itself was offered. It is important that there are good employment conditions and that the system is not abused by rogue employers. That is why today we are going to decide on measures to improve the regulatory framework for labour immigration and to combat abuse. Improving the current rules involves combating the diversion and abuse of the current system. Only if cheating and injustice are curbed can the legitimacy of labour immigration be maintained. Swedish wages and working conditions shall apply to the Swedish labour market. Now we need to focus on breaking segregation and fighting unemployment. That is why these changes are also needed, and there will be more proposals in this area in the future. Madam President, I would like Today, we look forward to the Parliament agreeing with the Government's proposal to amend the Aliens Act, the Social Security Code and the Special Alien Control Act. A contract of employment will be required for a work permit to be granted. Employers may be obliged to notify if the conditions of employment change and become less favourable. Employers may be required to provide the Finnish Immigration Service with written information on the conditions applicable to the foreigner's employment at a periodic penalty payment. The starting point must, of course, be that labour immigrants should receive the salary and other conditions set out in the offer of employment. There has been information from the employees' organisations that, in several cases, the employment conditions stated in the employment offer have not been fulfilled by the employer once the foreigner has started his work here in Sweden. The fact that foreign workers are informed after arrival in Sweden that the working conditions have changed is also supported by the information in the report Common Position – organised crime 2021. Under the current system, there is therefore uncertainty as to whether the conditions set out in the employment offer will ultimately apply to the foreigner's employment. If the actual employment conditions applied when a foreigner has started work in Sweden are worse than those stated in the employment offer, there is also a risk that a work permit will be granted even though the conditions are not met. As I said, these foreign workers can be placed in a situation where they are forced to accept significantly worse working conditions than promised. The alternative may be to beg, commit crimes or completely lose the opportunity to work and earn income. When laws and rules are infringed, competition is also distorted, which risks competing out serious companies, while workers are forced to work in precarious conditions, at low wages and without protection under labour and social security legislation. The aim of the Government's proposal is to prevent the system of labour immigration from making it easier for those employers who are misleading and offer conditions of employment that are worse than those that apply to workers who are already resident in Sweden. It is also only worse terms of employment compared to the original conditions that have formed the basis for the work permit to be notified. Thus, employers offering better conditions are not subject to the notification obligation. Such a discussion has, of course, been up. But that's only true in the event of deterioration. Better conditions must, of course, be imposed on workers. For example, if the employer removes an insurance policy but increases the foreigner's salary, it must be notified to the Finnish Immigration Service, as such a change could lead to the foreigner's residence permit being revoked if the new employment conditions do not meet the conditions for a work permit that were valid from the beginning. These are, therefore, conditions that should reasonably be well known to the business community and employers who have recruited foreign workers in the past. Supply requirements should also be introduced in the event of family migration linked to foreign labour. This applies to asylum seekers and should, of course, also apply to labour migration. Misuse of the regulations can lead to unreasonable burdens on, for example, the Swedish social security system. Among other things, it has been reported that labour migration is used for organised abuse of work permits, for example with so-called circular permits where the family member's residence permit is dependent on the labour immigrants' condition while the employment of the labour immigrants depends on the family member's right to reside in Sweden. It may sound very complicated. But that is what has also been talked about; the parent of a relative who needs help according to LSS comes here and is hired by his child. It's called a circular state. Those who plan or organise, for profit, activities aimed at promoting the travel of foreigners to Sweden with permits issued on the basis of false information must be able to be judged for the organisation of human trafficking. The crime of organising trafficking in human beings is divided into a crime of normal rank and a serious and a minor crime. It can be noted that the penalty rate is the lowest prison sentence for six months and a maximum of six years for serious crime. For offences of normal severity, the penalty rate is imprisonment for a maximum of two years, and for minor offences it is a fine or imprisonment for a maximum of six months. We believe that these penalties should be regarded as adequate. There is therefore no reason for the Riksdag to make an announcement to the government about increased penalties. Madam President, I would like What I have said so far does not contradict the fact that international recruitment of highly skilled workers is an important complement to national recruitment. This is particularly true in sectors and occupations where there is a shortage of domestic labour. In order to find the right skills, Swedish employers are increasingly looking for labour in the global labour market. At the same time, international competition for certain labour is high. Immigration of highly skilled workers can bring many benefits to a country. There are dynamic effects of the increase in the number of highly skilled jobs; the growth of skilled jobs often leads to the creation of more jobs in other sectors of the labour market. It also contributes to increased consumption and thus to economic growth. A new residence permit is introduced for some highly qualified people who want to apply for a job or examine the conditions for starting a business in Sweden. A temporary residence permit for work does not need to be withdrawn in small cases of non-compliance or if, in view of the circumstances, withdrawal does not seem appropriate. These legislative amendments are proposed to enter into force as early as 1 June this year. We are really looking forward to that.
i-QbAezFKjaq95hpAtsjpA9b	Madam President, I would like The grant cost in 2019 almost as much as half the defence cost in the same year. Compensation goes to the most vulnerable. But too much goes into the pockets of felons. The National Intelligence Centre writes that personal assistance work permits are systematically used for assistance fraud, illegal migration, labour exploitation, user import and other financial gain. Their mapping has shown confirmed links with known national as well as international criminal networks and with networks in the field of violent extremism. All of this has led us moderates to land in the fact that it is completely unreasonable to allow labour migration to personal assistance. The risks are far too great for people and systems to be exploited. At the same time, the scope for control is limited because it is by nature difficult to carry out checks in people's homes. Moreover, the competence for these jobs should reasonably already exist in the country.
i-VkePt8h67tZ8GoKKay8EnL	Madam President, I would like What Maria Stenergard is referring to is, of course, totally unacceptable. We believe that we are going to deal with this in part. If I told you we'd get right with it, Maria Malmer Stenergard would probably say we don't know anything about it yet. Part of this is that you should have an employment certificate and be employed. In addition, one must be able to support one's family. What has happened in the past is what I call circular state. With these proposals, we believe that this will be countered. But, of course, we should keep an eye on the matter, with the cooperation of authorities, in order to limit it all. It is important that this is lifted up so that there is a knowledge in society. LSS is a shared responsibility between several different actors. It is therefore important that as many people as possible within municipalities, regions and at national level have knowledge of this so as to ensure that this possibility is, of course, limited but also completely removed.
i-TtnmTYECnGatchUAPFtG8i	Madam President, I would like I am convinced that a ban on labour immigration for personal assistance is necessary if the problems are to be addressed. It's that refined setup that's very hard to detect. I did not quite understand if the last thing Carina Ohlsson said means that you are prepared to stop labour migration for personal assistance. It would be very positive in that case. I have another question, and it's about a change of track. It has previously been unclear where the Social Democrats stand. Many leading representatives have said that it should be abolished. I think it is a reasonable way, because we see it being exploited. People are seeking asylum here despite the fact that they obviously do not have asylum grounds and then they can change tracks and then stay here. It is important that we put an end to it. I understand that the Social Democrats have said this before. Then this was investigated. The investigator was commissioned to look instead at the possibility of making the rules for track change even more generous. I therefore wonder where the Social Democrats are standing here. Do they want to keep the track change? Do they want to make the rules more generous? Or do they even want to abolish the change of track?
i-65yGWzHvGkVVqZ2zrZoadC	Madam President, I would like We are open to making more restrictions in the legislation, which dates from 2008. At that time, the current group leader of the Moderates was responsible for the questions. We are open to discussions about banning track change. There is openness to that. The fact that I am not saying that we want to ban personal assistance entirely is because we have not gone into every profession. But we have said that where it is needed is in sectors where there is a lack of more skills and highly skilled labour. Maria Stenergard also referred to long-term unemployment. For example, we want to retain extra services because we have seen that it has provided an opportunity for both women and men with foreign background to enter the labour market. We want as many measures as possible to limit unemployment, but we also want to make restrictions where we have seen abuses in terms of labour migration. This is a first step. We'll get back to you with more things. I hope that Maria Stenergard and the Moderates will also vote in favour of the measures that are coming. I'll buy you what Maria Malmer Stenergard said about this coming from the Moderates. We know better. It is the old legislation of 2008 from which there is still a relic.
i-Kf4Xdg52wgKdqeKRKvbbaW	Madam President, I would like If we were to try to rank those policies which, according to logic and common sense, should have been at the top of the list of priorities over the last two terms of office, the very rules on labour immigration should have been considerably higher than they have been. It is rather late in this parliamentary term, and the bill has in any case been waiting for. For the public who follow this but who may not be doing recruitments from other countries themselves or not working in criminal authorities, I think the rules we are discussing today may seem somewhat complicated and somewhat obscure. To illustrate the complete moral breakdown that today's regulations lead to, I thought first of all to explain the concept of user imports and what it really means. It all begins with an entrepreneur entering the personal assistance industry in the absolutely most loose sense of the word. As there are no restrictions on the import of labour from outside the EU/EEA and not even to professions requiring little or no training, such as personal assistants, recruitment from Iraq, for example, is open. I mention this country because it very often figures in these matters. When a person comes as a labour immigrant, there is nothing that limits his or her ability to bring relatives to Sweden. This means that the person in question in turn has the opportunity to bring in a relative who may also come from the same country and who, by chance, is in great need of assistance. When that person then comes to Sweden, he chooses the hiring company as an assistance provider. As a result, the family is creating jobs for labour migration. This can then be repeated ad infinity. What this is really about is cynical exploitation of the Swedish welfare system. If this had been the whole story, that would be one thing. Cynic exploitation of Swedish welfare systems is everyday for Sweden today. But it's worse than that. It is not unusual that the relative the person brings here is not really a relative at all, but just a disabled person found somewhere in the home country. When this person then comes to Sweden, he or she is left to his or her fate in an apartment somewhere while the assistance company invoices huge amounts of assistance that are never performed. Euphemism usually imports, as journalists and politicians choose to call it, are actually something beautifying. What is really at stake in many cases is the trafficking of people with disabilities for profit in order to commit fraud against the welfare system. Of all possible reforms in the area of migration, one should be to stop this. One way would be to introduce a general government-based labour market test to obtain residence permits on the basis of work. That's our model. We are the only party to support this proposal at the moment. We are waiting for the Social Democrats. The Moderates, as we were told in the previous shift, want to completely ban the recruitment of personal assistants from third countries, and that is, of course, another way forward. To be fair, I note that the government is proposing a supply requirement to bring a relative here when you arrive as a labour immigrant. The Member of the Socialist Group referred to this in the previous line when the user imports were raised. However, one thing that should be noted in this is that the majority of the committee has supported that the supply requirement should comply with the rules that apply to some other relatives, i.e. that the person should have more than 5 000 SEK left to live on after having paid the rent, in order to be able to bring a single adult here. This is a level that most personal assistants should come across, given that a personal assistant today earns over $1,000 a month. Thus, even with the supply requirement, this circus will be able to continue. That is deeply regrettable. The majority of committees also notes on page 22 of the motion for a resolution that no further proposals need to be made to stop this, as further measures are currently being prepared within the Government Office. But why has the government waited until the last half of the last year of term two to do something? In fact, it makes no sense. As I said, this should have been priority number one. Madam President, I would like The problem is also not isolated from user imports, but there are other consequences here. For example, we see widespread corruption around and trade in residence permits. We see wage dumping, which effectively shuts out people who already exist here from the labour market by simply undermining wage levels. We also see a weakening of our diplomatic tools. It is not uncommon for other countries to use an attractive labour market as a tool or a pawn in a negotiation. For example, Sweden could carry out far more expulsions by entering into agreements with some countries to allocate a certain quota of labour immigrants who can come to Sweden in exchange for cooperation in expulsion cases. This is how several other countries work, but it is not possible when there are no restrictions at all on how many recruitments from other countries can be made. As an illustration of how neglected the Swedish system is, it is really enough to look at point 3 of the proposal report, that is, the point relating to the crime of organised trafficking in human beings. Until now, therefore, it has not been illegal, or at least it is not punishable by the penalty, to smuggle in people with counterfeit employment documents in Sweden. It sounds like a total cocoon, but it's true. Someone somewhere has obviously been naive – again. I'm sorry to sigh, but you get tired just thinking about it. What Sweden needs, Madam President, is modern rules for labour immigration. The proposals in substance are reflected in our reservations and the announcements the Riksdag will send to the government. I would like to take this opportunity to call for the approval of Amendment No 2 to the SfU19, that is to say the motion for a resolution, and of Amendment No 19 to the proposal. In short, what Sweden needs is the following. Firstly, a substantial increase in wage requirements is needed to ensure that those who come as labour immigrants actually fill a gap in the labour market, on which we all agree is something positive, and does not come to compete for jobs that require little or no training. Secondly, the so-called change of track must be removed. The change of track means that anyone can get to Sweden to work by submitting an unfounded asylum application as a basis, and that rule is systematically abused. It has become an explicit part of the business plan of the smugglers. Moreover, in a situation where asylum investigations can be rather long, complex and, above all, costly, there is no reason to attract people to submit applications of this kind. Thirdly, the supply requirement for relatives of migrant workers must be so high that those who come here can actually support themselves. The government can introduce this by means of a regulation, that is, a government decision, and that is what it intends to do. But given that the Social Democrats seem to think you can live on 13 000 SEK a month gross in Sweden today – including renting an apartment for that money – I do not hope for too much here. Fourthly, if you want to bring a relative here, you must have a home of sufficient size and quality to ensure that you do not end up in exclusion and overcrowding. This seems to have been forgotten by the government side. Fifthly, the number of workplace inspections must be increased and, above all, the penalties for those who break the rules must be considerably tougher. This is the announcement we are proposing in the report on the strengthening of penalties for the organisation of trafficking in human beings, but the penalties also need to be tightened up for those who are only hiring people who are not authorised to be in or work in Sweden. According to case law, even 20 illegals under the same supervisor today do not lead to custodial sentences. There's something shaky, I'd say. Sixthly, a proper, government-based labour market test is needed so that the public can actually exercise some control over which professions can be added through labour migration and which vacancies should be filled with people who already exist here. It is simply not reasonable for us to bring fast-food staff, cold sandwiches or berry pickers, while almost 700 000 people with foreign backgrounds are already here and are not able to make their own living. There are plenty of staff for these jobs in Sweden. We must realise that all people are acting in the interests of economic self-interest. When wages are allowed to be squeezed by cheap, imported labour, it is no wonder that many choose the subsidies instead – as long as possible. But this is of no benefit to anyone in the long run. Last but not least, I would like to say something about Sweden's attractiveness for highly qualified workers. I believe that most parties in this House have dealt with this in these two reports, and that is a good thing; it is of course important that we can attract highly qualified workers. I can start a little from personal experience, because I have a lot of acquaintances who have come as labour immigrants in relatively highly qualified professions. There are a couple of things that everyone thinks is good with Sweden, and then there are a couple of things that really everyone thinks is bad. What people think is good, in general, is, among other things, the cheap and accessible childcare one. That's great. We have a good reputation in the world, and people who want to start a family sometimes move to Sweden precisely because it is so easy to combine work and family life. We will, of course, monitor, endorse and maintain that. Of course, what people think is not very good is the lack of housing – that is really the biggest problem – and the apparent crime. It's something that scares people away from Sweden. If we want to make Sweden attractive to highly skilled workers, a train we are absolutely on, then one must probably look in a slightly broader perspective than just the rules we are debating in this report. Perhaps, above all, the events that took place this weekend are an excellent example of how we can scare off highly qualified people from Sweden. Nobody wants to live in a country where this kind of riot is allowed to continue. Finally, the report contains a number of minor steps in the right direction – I recognise that – but they are coming too late in their term of office. Moreover, the changes will be too late for them to be evaluated before the elections, and I assume that is the purpose of the report coming at the time it comes. Having said that, over the last four years we have become accustomed to being happy for the little we get.
i-JsjW2MgfSXTEZ3f76EDNv7	Madam President, I would like This morning, my alarm clock rang. I got out of bed, cooked a cup of coffee, and got myself a glass of juice. I went into the shower, got ready and went here to Parliament – to work. Going to work also made people throughout the country who have work permits and who are here as labour immigrants. It is people who every day go to work and make a real contribution. They really contribute to Swedish companies, to Swedish competitiveness and to Swedish bnp. Representatives of Sweden's three largest parties have just stood in this pulpit and sounded almost like labour migration is the root of all evil. There is very little talk about all the good and positive things that labour immigration actually contributes. Labour immigration is not only important, but labour migration is crucial for many of our companies in a wide range of industries across the country. Thus, labour migration is important for Sweden. We are a small country with an economy open to the outside world. Our labour migration is important for our companies, but it also contributes about SEK 34 billion annually to Swedish bnp and 12 billion in increased tax revenues. If you look at figures and statistics it becomes clear that labour migration is absolutely necessary for Sweden. For me, however, it becomes even clearer in the meeting with our entrepreneurs. It is about the small company in the middle of Stockholm's inner city or about the large IT company at home in Helsingborg, which needs unique expertise to develop the companies forward. But it is also about the potato grower in Kalmar or about the farmer in Gotland who specializes in ramsons, which is served all over the country in our restaurants. In the meeting with these companies, and so many more, not least in the spring, it has become quite obvious to me that labour migration is not a bourgeois liberal find-out reform but that it is about real jobs. It's about the survival of companies. It is about the development and future of companies. There are problems. There are major problems with cheating, falsification and organised crime linked to labour migration. When people are exploited and businesses cheat, it should be treated with vigour. But let us find specific solutions to specific problems. Let's not break the whole system. In the report drawn up by the government, the investigator himself states that the solutions proposed by the country's main parties do not really make a difference. Madam President, I would like I am proud that, within the framework of the January agreement, the Center Party has made it clear that once and for all we would stop the very damaging demonstrations of competence. The proposal of the investigation, which the government has chosen to proceed with, is basically a good one. At the same time, we know that this is not the first time that the government has taken steps to stop the expulsions. Therefore, the Center Party believes it would be reasonable for the government, after a period of both monitoring and evaluation of the decisions, to review whether the decisions have had the desired effect – in order to be able to quickly take new measures if necessary. Madam President, I would like Abuse, cheating and crime in all parts of society must be met with force. But it should be measures that make a real difference, not measures that sound good. For example, there should not be a requirement for employment contracts to be attached to the application for a work permit, as this costs considerably more than it tastes. For example, it is not possible to know in advance how long the processing time of a work permit is, which makes it impossible to specify the starting date of the employment. There is also uncertainty about labour law when the start date is passed without a decision on a work permit being made. The long processing times also mean that companies' labour needs may change during the processing period. Nor is there any indication that attaching a work permit to the employment contract would prevent fraud and abuse. On the whole, this is a good proposal. It will stop the deportation of skills, a so-called talent visa will be introduced and measures will be introduced to combat fraud, crime and abuse. But this is only a partial report. We have already heard the new immigration minister announce that a series of proposals to be implemented as the government's own investigation has stated will make little difference in combating abuse, cheating and crime. This is a step in the right direction, but I am afraid of what will come whether it is moderates or social democrats who will have the power after the elections. I am afraid that proposals that will put a wet blanket across the whole industry will be implemented. It will be harmful for Sweden, for Swedish competitiveness and for Swedish companies. Finally, in the SfU22, I would like to endorse reservation 11 and in the SfU19 I would like to endorse reservation 3.
i-3JD5gyw5Ddv2ozVmpz7pLS	Madam President, I would like This report proposes an announcement to the government on the strengthening of penalties for the crime of organising trafficking in human beings. This crime is a little simplistic that a profit-making person organises illegal migration to Sweden. This is not, therefore, a person who helps, for example, an asylum seeker for what he sees as the good cause, but an organised procedure for purely profit-making – not a good deed but a crime for profit. For offences of normal rank, the penalty rate is currently imprisonment for a maximum of two years. In practice, this means that you can get away with fines, especially if you are a little younger. The Center Party does not support the proposal to tighten the penalty. Why do you think a fine is a reasonable penalty for a person involved in organised human trafficking for his own profit?
i-Mhu8p33YQHAq7Hbf71PuZt	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by saying that, of course, the Center Party does not think that either abuse, fraud or crime belong in any part of society, so also when it comes to labour immigration. That is also why we have worked hard to come up with proposals that really make a difference without breaking the system. With regard to the issue raised by the honourable Member, the government has taken action in this area during the previous terms of office, and we think that they are reasonable and proportionate to what is in other parts of the penalty scale. Then there can always be discussions on this, but they should be held in a wider context of penalties in general in the Committee on Justice, for example.
i-MoWQB4VCJQjSqh9LK1FEtP	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to prevent us from jumping the discussion just so that it is actually to be held in the Committee on Justice. This is part of the special criminal code. The penalty is in the Foreigners' Act, and there is nothing to prevent us from discussing it today. Yes, I thought we should discuss the issue here and now. And then I thought I could get an answer. Why does the Center think that fines could be a reasonable penalty for a person who organises human trafficking for his own profit? Once again, it is not a question of people doing something for the sake of good or what they see as the good cause, but of acting for profit and, in many cases, exploiting people's desperation. When you talk about penalty scales in theory, for example in criminology, you often talk about proportionality, i.e. that the penalty should be proportionate to the severity of the crime. It's usually called punishment and prevention theory. How has the Center Party considered that fines would be proportionate to the seriousness of carrying out organised human trafficking for profit? How do you think in terms of punishment and prevention theoretics when you have reached this conclusion?
i-YPy8q1AH3neYNdextfsR84	Madam President, I would like The Swedish democrats' solution to all problems is always harsher punishment and harder grip. That's the answer to everything. When it comes to this issue, I would like to make it very clear that the Center Party obviously thinks that human trafficking is wrong. You shouldn't use people in any way. I sincerely hope that the honourable Member understands, although he is eyeballing and shaking his head, that the Center Party thinks that human trafficking is wrong in every way. However, it is stated in the special opinion that things have happened during the term of office and that they will have to be followed in the future, but it is currently not proportionate to the other parts of the penalty scale to increase the penalty.
i-8qwc7EquwsZWvGPoe1mHNC	Madam President, I would like Jonny Cato stands here in the speaker's chair and commends the Center Party more for the fact that the January agreement has succeeded in putting an end to the expulsion of skills. I am, of course, pleased that this ambition was in the January agreement. However, as in other parts, the Center Party has not had a real success story with the January agreement. In this case, it was in fact only in directives to identify whether there was a problem of competence deportation. That is why the Moderates, the Christian Democrats, the Swedish Democrats and the Left Party had to actively go in and change the directives in the investigation so that the task was actually to abolish the competence expulsions. But against that decision, which we got through in committee, the Center Party reserved itself. I find that very hard to understand. Can Jonny Cato figure it out for me?
i-UGmbVHsZgekdce28vePosi	Madam President, I would like Of course I can. To be clear, that is how many investigative directives are written. The Center Party was clear that we were going to stop the demonstrations of competence, and the government was also clear about that. We fully agreed on this in the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Center Party and the Liberals. That was the ambition, and that was really why this investigation was set up at all. In the January agreement, it was precisely to stop the skills expulsions that were the agreement. What happened in addition was in negotiations between the parties, because we saw the need to look also at cheating, crime and so on. But the ambition from the beginning was that we should stop the skills demonstrations. It was very clear. We were in complete agreement on that. We can only say that it is a good thing that things turned out the way they did and that this is a proposal that will probably solve the problem. However, I think it is a pity that we do not have the opportunity to have an announcement that it should be followed up and evaluated. We have believed that the problem of skills deportation has been resolved in the past, for example, in one of the so-called lucia judges. But for some reason it manages to sneak back in, and it is important that it does not do so once more. It is a good thing that we seem to be in tune with the fact that this is not the place for the displays of competence. I am proud that the Center Party got it into the January agreement, and I am proud that the Center Party got the government to set up an investigation.
i-MtgSniiDXttYAv2TLm9EjS	Madam President, I would like I am very proud that we amended the directives so that it could become a workshop and we can press the button today to stop the skills demonstrations. But it is good that we agree and that we finally end up there. Another part is about the cheating linked to labour migration. Unfortunately, we have the rather widespread phenomenon of unscrupulous use of labour by employers. A great deal has happened since this regulatory framework was introduced in 2008. The labour market has changed, and crime has found completely new ways. Then I think it is an obligation for us who are defending this reform to follow that trend and close the holes that are opening up. That is when we can see that we are now using the opportunity to change tracks in a completely unreasonable way. They even have work gentures in other countries that organise trips for people who come here to seek asylum, stay for free and take advantage of the benefits that exist with it to really just look for jobs and change tracks. It is, in fact, completely unreasonable, and it is also taking power from the asylum system that should go to those who really need protection. It should be stopped, but the Center Party doesn't want that. Why? It is also quite unreasonable that it takes only 13 000 to come from across the world to work here. Of course it is not enough, and of course it opens up to cheating. Why doesn't the Center Party want to raise that level? Finally, I have already explained in this House the widespread fraud and the clear link with serious organised crime in terms of labour migration to personal assistance. It must also be stopped, but the Center Party does not want that. It worries me that they do not want to care for and develop this reform, which was fundamentally important for Sweden.
i-EFQitBSxZbT6jVmZ88kTpJ	Madam President, I would like Let's start with the pay floor. After all, it is no secret that there are very few at the level of 13 000 to 15 000. I think the investigation found that there were about 130 people on the figure that we are constantly hearing Moderates, Christian Democrats and others talking about. There are very few at that level. One can of course discuss whether 13 000 is right. On the other hand, we can see that 28 000, or whatever the Moderates want, is very high and would knock away many companies and many industries. We can also note that the investigator and the investigation concluded that an increased salary floor is unlikely to lead to the disappearance of cheating, crime and falsification. Then you might wonder why you should introduce such a high salary floor. As far as personal assistance is concerned, the Center Party has put forward 13 sharp proposals on how we can really get rid of the problem of fraud, abuse and pure crime in the area of personal assistance. But I think that is the wrong way to go either politicians or authorities to start pointing out in which sectors to have labour migration. We will start with personal assistance, but what is the next step? Is it the farmers? Is that the berry pickers? Is it the IT business? What's the next step? I think we're opening up something dangerous. I think that when it comes to labour migration, it is companies that know what needs they have, not politicians or authorities.
i-FfL6uvmdqeHWaZY9AH2fzK	Madam President, I would like Labour migration is positive for Sweden and contributes to our country's development. People from other parts of the world fill gaps in the Swedish labour market while improving their living conditions and realizing their dreams. Business needs can be met while working life and society at large develop and become richer and better. All of this, however, presupposes that the regulatory framework works. Unfortunately, the regulatory framework and the system we have today have led to a completely different situation. Cleaners forced to work long days, twelve hours a day, six or seven days a week for starvation wages. Construction workers who are forced to work in a poor working environment with a risk to life and health. Drinkers who are forced to pay part of their salary to the employer in order to keep their job. Restaurant staff who are forced to sleep on mattresses in the warehouse and are sometimes even sexually exploited and silenced. These are some examples of how workers are exploited by rogue companies. We have long seen cynical exploitation of labour immigrants in the Swedish labour market. This situation in the labour market has not emerged from a vacuum, Madam President. These are the result of political decisions. This has led to people being lured here from other countries, exploited under slave-like working conditions and at risk of being punished if they report the employer. The Left Party and the trade union movement foresaw this even when the system was introduced. We note that it reinforces the unequal balance of power in the labour market and impairs the conditions for the country's employees. In order for labour migration to make a positive contribution for the employee, employer and society as a whole, there must be guarantees that those who come here are not exploited and are also not used to dump wages and working conditions on the Swedish labour market. The Left Party has been pushing for a long time to change the current system of labour immigration. We believe that the regulatory framework should be based on six simple principles. Firstly, the employer should be able to demonstrate that recruitment is based on an actual shortage of labour, not just a shortage of cheap and desperate labour that is easy to exploit. We need to reintroduce the government-based labour market test. Secondly, the job offer or contract of employment must be legally binding. The salary and conditions promised when the work permit is granted shall be valid and kept. Wages and conditions must be in line with the collective agreement for the industry. Thirdly, full-time employment must be a requirement so that the employee can actually live on his or her salary. Fourthly, a thorough assessment of employers' behaviour must be carried out before a work permit is granted. Fifthly, workers who come forward and talk about maladministration should be allowed to stay in Sweden for the permit period and be given the opportunity to seek a new employment so that they have a security to come forward and tell about what is happening. Sixthly, penalties should be imposed on employers who exploit migrant workers and compensation should be awarded to the worker affected. These are principles that should be self-evident and that would effectively reduce the opportunity to exploit, exploit and silence people in the Swedish labour market. As long as today's system does not fundamentally change, people will continue to be exploited and harmed. I therefore call for reservations 1, 7 and 20 in SfU22.
i-JbZHMqDDU3sGtpwieFS3xk	Madam President, I would like One of the Left Party's reservations states that the government should return with proposals to remove the dependency requirement for family immigration when the associate has a residence permit for work. Then it is said that the ability to support one's family should result from the provision of reasonable employment conditions with contractual wages. The proposal also risks deterring people from going to Sweden and reducing the possibility of attracting relevant and necessary labour. ..................................................... But the Left does not want an increased salary threshold. There is no reservation from the Left Party to actually introduce a solid salary floor so that you get a pay that can be lived on. As the rules stand today, you can come to Sweden and work for 13 000 SEK per month, gross. It's far too little to support a relative-- I think Tony Haddou actually understands that. Another detail of this is that in the places in Sweden where there are jobs, where labour immigrants often look for themselves, it is also a little more expensive to live; it is no secret. This means that you have to think a little bit. The Left therefore says that it does not want a supply requirement, but rather that it should be resolved by demanding contractual wages. But then the Left has forgotten to write a claim that you want contractual wages, or at least a salary threshold. This is something strange. Why not demand a certain minimum income if this is the way you want to go to ensure that people who come here actually have a salary on which the family member can be supported?
i-Wn4avK96GMDJX1gt8GJLb	Madam President, I would like There are two questions here, I suppose. If I start with supply requirements, that goes in line with the other migration legislation, quite simply. That is something we are opposed to. The possibility of living with your family should not be determined by the size of your income. This is contrary to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. One should be able to live with one's family. Children have the right to live with their parents. That is also why we are addressing this issue of supply requirements. On the second issue, we want collective wages for the industry. It is simply not much harder than that.
i-ENG3mXVnepfL7yusukYzVe	Madam President, I would like There's quite a lot of logical fallacy in that way of arguing. Tony Haddou says we should not separate parents from their children. It could possibly be an argument if you had to move to Sweden. But people are not forced to take jobs in Sweden. If you take a job in Sweden you make a conscious choice, and then I think it is reasonable that if you want to bring a relative, you make sure that you have a situation that you can also support him. There is nothing unreasonable about this. With regard to the issue of collective pay, the question is: why not use the wage threshold, which is a much sharper and simpler tool? If you still want a minimum salary that a person should earn in order to get a job here, why not just swallow the pride and sign that we want a proper salary threshold? This is a much better way to achieve the same result. Or is it just about prestige? What's the problem?
i-YCUmJKK1RbLVYnSuz3NqUc	Madam President, I would like Here it is well that SD lacks the picture of reality – what it looks like in the labour market. That is why we are opposed to this. Full-time work would be a much better thing. But when it comes to salary thresholds or starting from wage demands, for example, the reality in the Swedish labour market today is that people are being exploited. You can write one thing on paper: We meet the wage requirement. Then people are forced to pay back. It is in the hands of employers, and it is exploited and exploited. Perhaps this is what the Swedish Democrats need to understand – what it looks like on the Swedish labour market. The questions here do not come directly because the Swedish Democrats have a solution, quite the opposite. You in the Swedish Democrats are putting construction workers against construction workers based on origin, skin colour or ethnicity. You put hotel and restaurant staff against each other, and you base it entirely on racist ideas. You put workers against each other, and who benefits from it? Can you explain that to me? Well, those who benefit from it are employers, who can take advantage of people. People are being exploited. Employers exploit the unequal balance of power in the labour market and therefore we must ensure that we have a robust system that works.
i-4GP4nGB7HZrcxZUtJF6KXg	Madam President, I would like Sweden needs labour migration – it is beyond doubt. So that is not really what we are debating here today, but how this immigration of labour is to be shaped. If we look at how other countries have chosen to do, the Swedish regulations for labour migration will go out. It is even contrary to the knowledge that exists about how to design a successful model. We are the only country in the Western world to open the gates wide so that people can come here and perform unqualified tasks. In addition, in Sweden we take no account whatsoever of whether we have a shortage of labour in a particular profession or not. We Christian Democrats have therefore put forward a series of proposals in recent years to try to change this. We are not going to bring labour into jobs where we have people who are able to work but who are unemployed. Madam President, I would like Labour migration has contributed to growth here in Sweden and given people the opportunity to establish themselves and also work here through their own work for a period of time. Labour immigration will continue to do so. We want Sweden to continue to be an attractive country for qualified labour migration. In a global world, labour migration is essential for the future competitiveness of Swedish companies. Madam President, I would like However, the Christian Democrats have been working for several years to reform the current system of labour immigration. The framework for labour migration to Sweden needs to be tightened up and adapted to changes in society. As I said earlier, Sweden differs in the Western world by offering relatively large opportunities for people to immigrate to work as well to perform relatively unqualified tasks. It is unreasonable to have these wide-open doors for low-skilled and low-paid workers with their own high structural unemployment in groups that should be eligible for this type of work. Unemployed people in Sweden must simply be given priority. Another important reason why the framework for labour immigration needs to be adjusted is to get away from shortcomings that lead to cheating, the exploitation of people and direct crime in the labour market. This is particularly true in lower-wage occupations. A third reason is that unhealthy companies that abuse the system and exploit workers from other countries create unequal conditions of competition in the Swedish labour market. Companies that do not pay sufficient wages, provide worse working conditions or fail to comply with the health and safety legislation we have can, in the long term, if this is not stopped, in some sectors compete out honest companies. For many of these companies, it is essential that we ensure that unhealthy companies cannot make use of the labour immigration system. A fourth reason is to get to grips with the devastating displays of competence. Despite broad political agreement, the proposals for measures have been absent up to now. Their coming now is due to the fact that a majority in the form of Moderates, Christian Democrats, Swedish Democrats and Left Partyists demanded that this be included – and now it is in the bill. Small errors on the part of the employer should simply not lead to the expulsion of valuable and highly qualified workers. Madam President, I would like On the table of the Riksdag is now the beginning of a new model for labour migration. We welcome a lot in the bill. These are steps in the right direction. We just think that this should have happened much earlier. In the bill that we are now dealing with, the government is putting forward several proposals that we Christian Democrats have called for, such as the proposal on supply requirements when relatives come to Sweden when someone has obtained a work permit here. We Christian Democrats have been calling for this for a long time. It was and is simply unreasonable and for me completely impossible to understand that we can have a legal framework in which the family members of persons who have been granted a residence permit to come to Sweden to carry out a job should not be subject to supply requirements, while at the same time we have supply requirements for persons who have been granted a residence permit with refugee status or as an alternative need for protection. It is to be welcomed that the government is now finally proposing a supply requirement linked to foreign labour. This is important in principle for the reason I have explained. V i also know that many have come here as relatives through labour migration, and they are then eligible for social assistance such as subsistence support. We have also called for it to be criminalised when an employer exploits an employee when conditions promised are not met. I believe that we have all been shaken when we read about the exploitation of certain people here in Sweden, and we welcome the fact that we are now receiving a proposal which extends the organisation of trafficking in human beings to include permits issued on the basis of untrue data. Madam President, I would like Although we Christian Democrats welcome much in the bill, we see that there is more to do. For example, we do not have proposals to stop the change of track and the introduction of a salary floor, and with a salary floor we also want to see the establishment of a nutrition test. We have a number of reservations in this area, which is quite large, not least because we are debating two reports at the same time. For the sake of time, I only ask for one reservation in each of the reports. In the SfU22 report, I am in favour of reservation 1, which states that we want to reject the government's proposal to introduce a residence permit to seek employment or examine the conditions for starting business. This should be rejected for the simple reason that it can be misused but also for the reason that such a residence permit is not needed. With this residence permit, the government wants to create better conditions for highly qualified workers to get a job in Sweden, they write. It is basically a positive thing, absolutely, but the proposal is badly drafted. The fact that it is obvious that there may be abuse is agreed on by several of the heavy consultation bodies. Unlike the visa regulations that we have today, it is not taken into account whether there is a risk that the foreigner will stay in Sweden and apply for asylum instead. We Christian Democrats have repeatedly pointed out that we must keep the Swedish asylum system separate from labour immigration. That is also one of the reasons why we want to abolish the so-called right to change tracks. Madam President, I would like I also call for the approval of paragraph 7 of the SfU19 report. It is a reservation that we should introduce a wage floor that will ensure that labour migration remains free if the wage offered exceeds the average wage. Right now the average salary is SEK 36 100 per month. Wage floors are, we mean, a simple and effective way to tackle cheating, exploitation, displacement of residents in exclusion and skills expulsions. Our proposal means an increase in today's salary floor of SEK 13 000 to SEK 36 100. At the same time, however, we must allow valves. Labour immigration will also be needed in occupations where wages do not reach 36 100. We can see certain industries such as nurses and nurses, civil engineers, CNC operators, arborists and programmers. There, the wage situation is not such as to reach the average salary. Then a valve is needed, and then there should be a nutritional test. If it is a job where there is a shortage of labour in Sweden, the salary should not prevent people from coming to Sweden.
i-yCinUsVTJxogpVAEu7yhW	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of motion 2021/ 22:4438, motion 1, report SfU22 and reservation 21. The regulation of labour migration is one of the areas that the Green Party has had a great influence on in Swedish politics. It was an area in which we cooperated with the then alliance government and made several reforms. Fredrik Reinfeldt, who led that government, and his immigration minister Tobias Billström, together with the Environmental Party, realised the importance of mobility – that people could come to Sweden and contribute. This strengthened Swedish companies and the Swedish business community, and it strengthened Sweden with expertise, tax revenues and new influences. The generous immigration of labour has served Sweden well, and it still serves us well. At the same time, there are problems linked to labour migration. The bill contains measures that are important to overcome them. Madam President, I would like After the 2018 elections, it was a long process before a new government came into place and the January agreement came into effect. The January agreement included points on labour migration, and several of them are included in the reports we are debating today. The four parties that supported the January agreement – S, MP, C and L – agreed to address the problem of skills demonstrations and also to introduce so-called talent visa, a new basis for residence permits for those who, with their own money, come to Sweden and want to start a business here. This is now in place. The problem of skills deportation has decreased over time, but it still exists. Hopefully, the change that is being made today will have an effect, so that we will not have to read in the future about workers who are expelled because they have taken too little vacation. The talent visa is a step in the right direction. From the Green Party we would have liked to have seen a broader foundation where the requirements had not been as high as they are now, with requirements for master's education. There are many examples of successful entrepreneurs without a long formal education. That's why the Green Party has an alternative in that part of our follow-up motion to the bill. Madam President, I would like There are also, as has been mentioned, problems linked to labour migration. It's about people being fooled and exploited. They come from countries far from ours and are promised wages and conditions, but on site in Sweden they do not get that. Without a network in Sweden and without knowledge of Swedish, they easily become victims. It is essential that controls at workplaces where there are many labour immigrants in risk sectors are effective and companies that violate the rules are penalised. The fact that the legislation is in place is a good thing, but more needs to be done. In this context, when it comes to finding people who are exploited, cooperation with municipalities is crucial. There are good examples around the country that not least the government should study carefully and disseminate further. Malmö Municipality is one of those. There the Environmental Administration and the Urban Planning Office work with supervision at workplaces and in premises and can report to the police, tax authorities and others when you suspect that it is not right. In Malmö, they spend more resources on this than they do in Gothenburg and Stockholm, which are considerably larger municipalities. There are also regulatory changes that should be made to this type of controls in order to get better track. It is, for example, a matter of keeping registers of different activities and the like. Madam President, I would like Sweden has had free movement within the EU since we became members. Since then, the EU has grown with more Member States. Today, this is something that is seen as self-evident. You have the right to travel. You have the right to apply for a job. Earlier, further back, this was something that was warned of by several political leaders. But today, as I said, it is seen as self-evident. Many of the poorer countries in the EU have developed in a positive way economically. This shows, not least, that exchanges, mobility and migration are basically good things. Labour immigration should be allowed, but we should also have penalties and sanctions for those who do not comply with the rules and who exploit people in a weaker position.
i-MjEP4GY9q8PZfLisoKEvH8	Madam President, I would like The National Intelligence Centre is part of the Police Authority. They describe in a report how crime plans around assistance companies and labour migration work in practice. I'll sum up: Personal assistance work permits are systematically used for fraud, illegal immigration, labour exploitation, user imports and other financial gain. Disabled people are used as – I quote – commodities. There are elements of human trafficking in both assistants and users. There are links to conflict-related shootings, terrorist financing and other financial crime and to known national and international criminal networks, such as networks in the field of violent extremism. There are also indicators that networks in the affected areas use the assistance as a cash cow and as a white facade. The Green Party has no proposals at all to stop this. They also want to back off the proposals put forward, including by us and the Moderates, to deal with this. In his speech, Rasmus Ling mentions his support for the Government's proposals aimed at detecting and counteracting abuse of the rules. What I want Rasmus Ling to understand is that in many cases the people involved in user imports do not break the rules, at least not the rules on migration. This is now perfectly legal, at least a large part of it. It is therefore the rules that are wrong, not the possibility of detecting and prosecuting violations of the rules. I have a very simple question: how is it that the Green Party does not have a single proposal or does not support a single proposal from another party specifically aimed at remedying this problem?
i-AEuQZUdbXcU3kAT2MBy56H	Madam President, I would like There are major problems in the area of personal assistance. And it is, as Ludvig Aspling says, the National Intelligence Centre that has pointed it out. This has also been pointed out in the annual progress report issued by the authorities. We are aware of these problems. I think that measures are needed to tackle some of this approach and what is linked to crime in this way. I'm no stranger to looking over whether to make regulatory changes. We know there are problems. But we do not see it as a way forward to completely exclude industries from the possibility of labour migration. We're going to have a reasonable regulatory framework. The freedom of people to choose who should be their personal assistant is fundamentally important. Then there should possibly be a limit when they come from outside as labour immigrants. We don't say no to reviewing the rules. There should be rules that are reasonable, and we definitely need to get to the criminal arrangements that exist here.
i-R64y71rSrDLsdM3sg9yzWe	Madam President, I would like Rasmus Ling claims he has read the report from the National Intelligence Centre, but I wonder if he really has. The language used here is quite extreme – the disabled are used as commodities, terrorist financing and so on. Those aren't little words. It is not often that the authorities express themselves in this way, unless the situation is grave and action is needed quite soon. Rasmus Ling also feels that action is needed. That's what he says. And he is no stranger to taking such or looking over what can be done. But would it not be an excellent example to show this in these reports? The Green Party has not written a reservation on this. You don't have any exercise about it. You could have written a special opinion. There is quite a lot that you could have done if you had seen the problem for what it is. There are things you haven't actually done. My question hangs a little bit in the air. The reason why I would like to ask Rasmus Ling a little bit about this is that the Green Party has a terrible de facto attitude on many political issues, not least in the area of migration policy. Is it really true that Rasmus Ling and his colleagues from the Green Party understand how serious this problem is? Their actions do not indicate that this is the case. Again: It's all right if you're not prepared to go as far as banning a whole professional category. But you could support, for example, our proposal to have an authority-based labour market trial. The aim is the same: to exclude professional categories where there are large amounts of fraud or this type of serious crime. But neither does the Green Party. So my question hangs a little bit in the air. If it is the case that you cannot imagine banning a professional category, I wonder, Rasmus Ling, what you are prepared to do. Give me a concrete example! What are you prepared to do to stop this?
i-JsjV4qUvkVVDfHG4gnrDqH	Madam President, I would like We do not want either authorities, trade unions or anyone else to decide that certain sectors should not be subject to entry at all. We think that we should live up to the rules that exist today. Collective agreements must be reached. You're supposed to meet other conditions. But otherwise it is the employer and the person who works who will agree, if you reach those levels. The legislation on LSS and personal assistance is taken up by Ludvig Aspling because it is part of the labour force report. We don't want to make those differences. The regulatory framework for these categories can be discussed, but in a different context. There are more problems with personal assistance. There are private actors who have not behaved in a reasonable manner, and this is not linked to labour migration. This question is therefore bigger than just dealing with people who come as labour immigrants and work. But when it comes to excluding specific industries, we think differently. We do not think that we should have regulation in the way that the Swedish Democrats want. We believe that we should meet the conditions laid down in collective agreements and other things, and if we do, we should be able to become employed and employ.
i-XwHNoandNhRrFCuu6XNGY	Madam President, I would like For the vast majority of people, gambling is something associated with pleasure. Others play to support their local sports club or other organizations. And there are many in our country who are interested in sports of various kinds and who enjoy playing games or trotting races when they see them in reality or perhaps in real time on television. At the same time, it is important to remember that there are people who suffer from gambling abuse and that there must be support for them. The Moderates protect those who enjoy gambling and affirm the opportunities to play in a healthy and regulated gaming market where all players have the same conditions. At the same time, we protect those who, for various reasons, are at risk of gambling abuse. Therefore, we Moderates also protect the gaming team that has been in place since 2019 and aims to create a modern and regulated market with licensed companies that are covered by the Swedish consumer protection. The Moderates are, by their very nature, sceptical about the fact that the State is competing with private operators in a competitive and regulated market. The state's involvement in such markets should be limited to supervising and curbing crime. The bill A re-regulated gambling market meant a long-awaited change in the then outmoded monopoly, which was replaced by a modern legislation that includes the entire growing gambling market. This is an idea that we Moderates have argued for for many years. The aim was to create a gaming market characterised by high consumer protection, high safety in the games and clear conditions for operating on the market through a licensing system. This meant that the Swedish gaming market was opened up to serious players who want to be involved in taking responsibility. Thus, the system also shuts out rogue operators. The fact that the bill was adopted by a broad, cross-block majority hopefully means that the decision is valid over time. Madam President, I would like With the re-regulation of the Swedish gambling market, the State has acquired a more important role than before in supervising the gambling market. That commission has been imposed on the Inspectorate for Games, i.e. the former Inspectorate for Lotteries, which grants licences but also exercises supervision. Given the new gambling market, there must be a clear demarcation of the State's behaviour, both in a competitive market and in a market where there is still a monopoly. We Moderates are still behind the proposal that Svenska Spel needs to be divided into two strictly separate companies. When Svenska Spel has been divided into two companies, there is also no reasonable basis for the state to operate in a competitive market. The part of Svenska Spel that operates in the competitive market should be sold in the next step. Madam President, I would like Equestrian sport is an important industry that, with its spillover effects, has a turnover of SEK 72 billion annually, employs 38,000 people and contributes more than SEK 6 billion in taxes each year. The main player and contributor to the horse industry is ATG, which has also gained a new role in the reregulated market. The consequences for the horse industry as a result of the re-regulation were not sufficiently recognised by the government, so an investigation was set up on this, among other things. Earlier when gambling on horse sports was monopolised with ATG as the sole actor enjoyed the horse sport a stable and predictable funding. This is in danger of changing with the new competitive situation. Although the horse industry has not yet seen any loss of revenue as a result of liberalisation, it is important that policies follow this closely to ensure that the horse industry has long-term and stable funding. Since ATG is no longer a monopolist, the state's involvement in the company should be terminated. Today, the state appoints a majority of the board, including the chairmanship, despite the fact that the company is wholly owned by Svensk Travsport and Svensk Galopp. We Moderates regret that no more parties see the absurdity of this. Madam President, I would like Both before and now after the re-regulation, it has been noted from both Sports Sweden and the police and the gaming companies that there are bets on fixed matches. Not infrequently it is organised crime where sportsmen are paid for matches to end in a certain way. This is a problem for both sport and gaming companies and not least for those who watch the game or play it and who are deprived of much of the joy of it. With the re-regulation, the Inspectorate had the opportunity to stop gambling at all in the case of, for example, lower divisions, which are more exposed to match fixing. At the same time, there are risks of general bans, as gambling moves to unlicensed gaming companies, as we have seen before, for example Asian companies that are not under Swedish jurisdiction. Although the Swedish Sports Federation today cooperates with the gaming companies and the police, but also with the Swedish Gambling Authority, it needs to be strengthened. Consideration should therefore be given to whether sport and gambling companies should be given greater responsibility for providing information on suspected match fixing to law enforcement authorities. The crime itself is committed on the playing field, and therefore those who organise sporting events and those who organise games at such events must cooperate to detect and stop fraud. So we can prevent those who finance and benefit from fraud from succeeding in organised crime, for today, for example, the Data Storage Directive raises concerns on this issue, given that this obligation does not exist. Not infrequently, match fixing in Sweden is linked to international crime. International mafia, motorcycle gangs and other international crime should not be able to make money from match fixing. It is therefore important that there are good opportunities for international cooperation to stop the fraud, but these opportunities are currently limited. As part of tackling international crime and providing greater opportunities for international cooperation, the Council of Europe developed a match fixing convention in force from September 2019, when it had been ratified by a sufficient number of countries in the Council of Europe. Sweden should also sign the Convention, as the majority of EU countries have already done. Madam President, I would like In the context of the re-regulation, the choice was made not to adopt the implementing provision proposed by the Gaming License Investigation. In practice, this has meant that it is not directly illegal to offer games that are not licensed to Swedish consumers. Unless the unlicensed games directly target the Swedish market, through Swedish-language websites or by charging in Swedish crowns, the possibilities to stop the game are small. While we Moderates welcome measures such as payment blocking and licensing also for gambling platforms, we believe that the law should be reviewed in this respect. Instead, the law should spell out a clear ban on offering unlicensed games to Swedish consumers at all. The unlicensed game is a threat to channeling, thus posing a consumer risk, financing crime and undermining business conditions. For the gambling market to work, the Inspectorate must also have the resources to curb the illegal operators. A further follow-up that needs to be done regarding the Gaming Act is to review the government's regulations. This has proved necessary not least because of the application that took place during the pandemic, when the government issued a temporary regulation on responsible gaming measures such as severely limited deposits and bonus payments for players. This risks further speeding up the downward channeling that the licensed gaming companies have previously highlighted. To contribute in a pandemic to consumers turning instead to rogue and unlicensed operators is dangerous for individual players, who are not subject to any duty of care. A market like the gambling market needs long-term conditions and clear rules of play, rather than quick throws. Otherwise, the whole gambling market that we all agreed would risk being eroded. It is therefore appropriate to review the government's scope for regulation in the light of the application that has taken place. Madam President, I would like Last but not least, I would like to point out that a large part of the gambling market is run by the public-interest lotteries. Sometimes it may sound like it's only the big casino companies that make up the gambling market, but that's not really the case. The lotteries of general interest also provide large resources to civil society each year. Many Swedes have a subscription ticket to support good ends. The free resources that this gives to associations and organisations are extremely important and, as a moderate, I always defend a society that is bigger than public funding. It is therefore important that civil society lotteries also have good and long-term conditions. Unfortunately, this was not sufficiently taken into account during the last re-regulation. It is time to correct the mistakes and allow exceptions for, for example, technical requirements, ensure that licensing processes are simplified and have a long-term perspective, and allow bonus offers for the public benefit lottery. Some of the proposals that we Moderates have made are included in a legislative referral that we are now eagerly awaiting will become a bill. We are pleased that the very unreasonable rhetoric expressed by the government in the past seems to have been allayed and that the most draconian proposals do not seem to be on the table anymore. We therefore hope that up-to-date gambling regulation can come about in agreement for a good regulated market with fair competition. To conclude, I would like to support the Moderates' reservation 26 under paragraph 15 on the government's regulations.
i-5tupg984qBbTDKJpJruoQy	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 4 from the Swedish Democrats, but of course I support all our reservations. A bill with proposals for strengthened gambling regulation is about to be put on Parliament's table shortly. In addition to today's debate on general exercise time, we will soon be able to debate other important issues in this House relating to the gambling market. One controversial issue that the Swedish Democrats have opposed during the process up to the bill is the proposal that the requirement for moderation in the marketing of gambling to consumers in the Gaming Act should be changed to a requirement of special moderation. We have seen a number of risks with this idea and how it could hit civil society's revenue and channelling in the gaming market. Madam President, I would like A key issue in the gaming market area is to combat illegal operators and achieve a high degree of channelling within the licensing system. It is a priority in gaming market policy for us Swedish democrats. There are good reasons for that. Prior to the re-regulation of the gaming market, the government assessed that the degree of channeling would be at least 90 per cent. But the reality that we have been given is quite different. Statskontoret's follow-up and evaluation of the re-regulation during its term of office has pointed in the opposite direction. Statskontoret estimates that the channeling rate in 2019 was 88 per cent. And by 2020 it fell to an estimated 85% to be around the same level in the previous year. Of course, the situation looks even darker when you consider that the degree of channeling differs greatly between different forms of gaming, where, for example, online casinos, which are a controversial form of gaming, have a clearly lower degree of channeling than many other forms of gambling. The low degree of channelling is a threat to the legitimacy of the entire re-regulation of the gambling market. Here we believe that the government needs to take steps to ensure that the channelling target set for re-regulation is also achieved and, of course, more so. This is something on which the Swedish Democrats have exercised and which is dealt with in the report that we are now debating. Another suggestion that we have also exercised and that could make a difference is to introduce licensing requirements for subcontractors, so-called B2B licenses – business to business. The Swedish Democrats want to see the government return to Parliament as soon as possible with proposals to introduce this into the Swedish gaming market. And it seems that this is happening in the coming bill, which I find pleasing. Madam President, I would like Lottery sales are important for large parts of Swedish civil society. And the relationship between lottery sales and civil society, we see Swedish democrats fundamentally very positively. But, of course, there are also some problems related to the way the law is designed today. The Swedish Democrats have long opposed, for example, that there should be exceptions to the ban on offering or providing credit for bets in gambling. Although the amount of credit itself is not very large, we believe that it is large enough for it to be a problem. The Swedish democrats have therefore exercised to put an end to this exception. It is a proposal which is also dealt with in this report. We have also exercised that parties, associations and companies owned by political parties should not be included in the exemption in the Gaming Act that allows them to conduct lottery activities. The fact that there is an exception for ordinary Swedish association life, not least a small-scale one, is, of course, something with which we have no problem and which we can support. But that exceptions should be made to give political power parties and their treasury a unique special position in the gaming market, which brings in very large amounts annually, we oppose. The problem with the exception that allows lottery purchases on credit and that political parties can carry out lotteries shows not least the Social Democrats clearly. A few years ago it became known publicly that the Social Democratic gaming company Kombispel had for several years sent the bailiff to lottery buyers over 10 000 times. And many of these people were already in debt at the time, but the company had not handled the credit information. It is not reasonable for political parties in this way to use political power to tailor laws and rules to maximize their own winnings. It is remarkable that the Swedish Democrats are the only party in this House that wants to put an end to it.
i-BWJ37KiNvzy8XHw4Nophn8	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1 in the report, but I naturally support all the reservations expressed by the Centre Party. It has been many years since I finished my employment at a folk high school. But I will always carry with me some of the participants I met there. I saw them come the first day of the long course. They were pretty worried. They stood one by one with the hood as far down as possible so you didn't see the face. But after a week or two, you saw them go together. They were happy to hold each other when they went down to the dining room to eat. To see shy students, who had never spoken in front of any group, after a few weeks stand on the castle staircase that is at that folk high school and welcome a new group of visitors was fantastic. You really make people grow here. Folkhögskolan is an important part both in a new start and in improving yourself in something that you have not encountered before. In addition to that, there are also our study circles, that is, peoples' education. For all of us who have seen and understood the importance of folk education, both in study circles and in our folk high schools, it has pained when you have usurped funds in a dishonest way. But I also think it is clear that the measures taken by the study associations are reasonable. I believe that people's education money should go to what it is intended for. Free formation exists only in free democratic societies because it is a threat to totalitarian leaders in totalitarian states. Free education for all is a question of freedom. That is why the infrastructure is so important and that there is access to education throughout the country in each municipality. One cannot stress enough the importance of peoples' education where there is room for reflection. It widens our horizons and makes us freer. The structure of adult education supports a wide range of educational activities. I believe that peoples' education is another aspect, and it cannot be replaced by training provided by public or educational companies. Folk education can also give people a chance to start a new life. This opportunity has been important since before. Now it has been made more clear, especially in the shadow of the coronapndemine. You can also have the opportunity to study upper secondary school skills later in life in order to be able to go to further studies. Folkbildningen contributes to a new start for many and is a foundation stone for Sweden to continue to be large, not least in the music world. Many of our most successful musicians and producers have their roots in a folk high school. With my liberal values and those of the Center Party, peoples' education is really something we want to safeguard. Here the participants have an obvious place when it comes to the design of courses. I would also like to touch on another subject raised by the previous speakers here. Mr Weinerhall has presented the gambling market in an exemplary manner. He and the member of the Swedish Democrats Jonas Andersson were also aware of the important source of income for civil society that the gaming market is. A new regulation of the gaming market entered into force in 2019. With covid-19 there has been a concern about problem gambling with an increased risk of gambling abuse. Developments are important to follow. We need to see if new efforts are needed to counter such developments so that people do not end up in this unnecessarily. At the same time, it is extremely important to protect the channelling within the reregulated market, that is to say, that a very large part of gambling takes place with companies with licences. It is a prerequisite for a good player protection because the option with a lower channeling instead leads to unregulated gambling and therefore gambling without the requirement of player protection. The conditions for the opportunities for the public benefit lotteries to continue to provide income to civil society and its activities have been made more difficult following the re-regulation of the gambling market. A review needs to be carried out to ensure the opportunities for the public lottery to operate on the gambling market.
i-PAsKMmgCY2fyNXopCq2WAw	Madam President, I would like Today's debate spans a wide range of areas. I will not be able to talk about all the different parts but choose today to focus on peoples' education issues. With regard to changes in the gaming market and the important efforts to counter match fixing, we from the Left Party have abstained from exercising this year, as we have been waiting for ongoing investigations and forthcoming proposals from the government. Madam President, I would like In fact, more than one million people participate each year in the activities of study associations and folk high schools. It is a tremendous force in the conversations and learning that take place daily in study circles, in rehearsal rooms and in the classrooms of folk high schools. Folkbildnings pedagogy is about adapting courses and study circles to the participants' needs and conditions. It provides more personalised content, and the participants have a great influence on what and how to learn. The participants seek and build their own knowledge through dialogue, interaction and reflection. There are 155 folk high schools in Sweden today. It is a unique form of education that is largely driven by ideas-based organisations, but the regions are responsible for a significant part. Folkhögskolan offers a wide range of courses for those who have not passed primary and secondary school, for those who want to study vocational education and for all those who want to prepare for further studies. Folkhögskolan enables education and a second chance for those who previously failed and facilitate the way out of many people's careers. The fact that folk high schools have good conditions is therefore of great importance to society as a whole, and from the Left Party we are concerned about the cuts that the parties to the right have previously proposed in budget reports. Instead, during the previous budgetary cooperation that the Left Party had with the government, a major investment was made in thousands of more places. The government has continued this expansion during the pandemic, but the problem is that the compensation per location is too low in relation to the mission it has. Around one third of the participants have a disability, and many have a short educational background. High teacher density and specialised pedagogy are required in these activities. A comparison can be made with the remuneration to the upper secondary school where the average is 126 000 SEK per student, while the folk high school receives 71 000 SEK per participant. In recent years, as many as 14 schools have reduced their offer of courses for students with disabilities. That is very regrettable. During the pandemic, many folk high schools received a heavy financial blow. The accommodation you have had has had to close, and the teaching has not been possible as usual. The extra revenues you usually have from summer courses, short courses and conferences have not been received. Already before the pandemic, resources were scarce for the folk high schools offering boarding facilities, and many reported that the situation was unsustainable. Many folk high schools are located in smaller towns and in sparsely populated areas, and in many cases you risk losing students if you cannot offer accommodation in combination with the education. Madam President, I would like Another important aspect is that it is folk high schools that have the wide range for people with disabilities. They are alone in conducting these courses today. In a recent report, the Folkbildningsrådet highlights the importance of the boarding school for students with an intellectual disability. It is said: Studies at folk high school have meant that you have the opportunity to move away from home and live a more independent life, in a controlled and safe environment. The common accommodation at the boarding school, I mean, is an important part of the soul of the folk high school, what makes them so special, and it should be preserved. In fact, long-term political efforts are needed to maintain their boarding facilities. Fees for the participants who rent their accommodation at the boarding school cannot alone bear the large costs of many schools for their property maintenance. It is now lagging behind because of the loss of revenue during the pandemic. We therefore propose that the government be tasked with investigating the conditions for special support for the folk high schools that offer housing. I would like to support our Amendment No 5, which deals with this issue. We also see that folk high schools offer a wide range of courses in culture and the media. I should also like to mention that briefly. For those who do not have basic school qualifications, it is possible to take a general course with an aesthetic orientation. We see that special courses often become an informal intermediate stage, one might say, before higher studies in the field of culture. Seventy per cent of the participants in the special courses in art and media had not studied aesthetic programs in high school. It shows that folk high school is a real second chance. For us in the Left Party it is extremely important that there is such a path to higher artistic education that does not involve high tuition fees, as other art and cultural educations have. Madam President, I would like I would also like to take this opportunity to highlight the fantastic activities that the country's study association stands for. Last year they had operations in 289 of the country's 290 municipalities and are thus the second best-covered cultural operator; the libraries lead the league. In addition to the study circles, which are in an enormous range of fields, there are also numerous open cultural programmes with folk high schools. Without these non-profit forces, as it is many times, we would be a less cultured country. Especially in these days, I think it is important to talk about the efforts of study associations and the whole of civil society to create coherence, community and education for newcomers. The study associations were fast on toe at the refugee wave in 2015, and we now see that they are making a very important contribution to welcoming the Ukrainian refugees around the country. Major efforts will continue to be required from civil society in terms of the reception, and we will see how far the 100 million proposed by the government yesterday in the spring change budget will be sufficient. Finally, Madam President, I would like to highlight what several parties have written about both now and in previous reports on changes in the regulatory framework and on the responsibility for managing contributions to peoples' education. I would like to make it clear that we, the Left Party, believe that Parliament, as legislator and contributor, should ensure that we have a good regulatory framework, a control system that is clear and a good structure for accountability. However, it is always important to seek the right balance between trust and control. Contributions to ensure living associations, studies and ultimately a strengthened democracy must not be eaten up by the costs of administering the contribution itself. Several parties are on the question of whether an authority should not take over the role of the Folkbildningsrådet to distribute grants and control. For us in the Left Party it would be a step in the wrong direction. Nor is the responsibility of an authority a guarantee that no one will be able to make use of the system. We believe that a system in which the national associations can allocate the contribution to the member organisations is positive. We see it within Swedish Outdoor Life, the Swedish Sports Federation and the Swedish Folkbildningsrådet. We think this is a model that should be extended to more parts of society – not less. We believe that this ensures a distribution that has support within the movement, that the independence of the society is guaranteed and that there is close dialogue about the use of the grant. We are seeing more and more signs that civil society is being called into question. Representatives receive hate and threats, and the good examples – the fine activities of non-profits on a daily basis – rarely get a place in news reports. That is why we need to be many ambassadors who highlight all the important things that are being done. I would like to call for the approval of Amendment No 5 by the Left Party.
i-4NF2AMmkd1Z5rmvxt3kw3r	Madam President, I would like I think that I and Vasiliki Tsouplaki do not disagree so much on the question of the great role that both folk high schools and study associations play in education, education and culture in Sweden. Nevertheless, I must take this opportunity to ask the honourable Member how she views the very serious data that has come to light. She spoke earlier about the major cuts that we would like to make. It is not a question of major cuts, but rather a return to the level of appropriations that applied a few years ago. One may always think that the student associations should have more money, but the important thing must after all be what activity comes out of the grants paid to the student associations. Now the Swedish National Audit Office looks at this and conducts an in-depth review of how this funding has been allocated and how it really is with the study hours – it is above all the study associations that are the subject of the review. It can be about data from the Swedish Folkbildningsrådet's own review or about the incredibly serious subsidy fraud that has occurred if you believe the researchers who have been out on the issue; there is talk of inflated figures in maybe half of all activities. As an example, all study associations in Gothenburg – a city with 580,000 inhabitants – reported 4 1⁄2 million participants in cultural events and study circles between 2017 and 2019. I don't think you have to be a rocket scientist to realize that this can't be right. I would like to ask Mr Vasiliki: what solution does the Left Party see to tackle these problems if we are not to have an audit based on authority and continue with the system that we have today?
i-FYy7hA7xNWyPkBNLm1dajb	Madam President, I would like Thank you, John Weinerhall, for the question, which allows me to clarify a little bit! Of course, we also think that this cheating has been very serious. It is systematic cheating that has been carried out in some parts of the country, and it is very serious. We should remember, however, that it was the study associations themselves who discovered the fraud when they did checks. Not that it was an authority or an investigative journalist, but it was the study associations themselves who discovered the fraud. I think they have worked out a system – above all an IT system – that can ensure that we do not end up in this situation again in the future. It was largely about the fact that study circles had been registered in several study associations in parallel. Now they have the opportunity to cross-check their records in the future to discover that kind of cheating. Every discovery of this kind allows you to learn, find out and find new ways. I think it is important that we do not throw the baby out with the bath water when this happens, but see that civil society is strong and has its own inherent drive to spend its operating money in a very good way. They want to be very effective in order to get as much activity as possible; that is the driving force behind civil society and the idea-based society. It wants to carry out important activities to develop both its members and society at large. We must have that confidence, and that is what I meant when I spoke earlier about the balance between trust and control. I'm afraid we're going to turn over and deprive civil society of this free role. It has been very developing for the country that we have had a civil society that has been so free and strong and that has been able to act.
i-QkXVvXorwaXdiNLHNjrdgB	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Vasiliki, for your answer. I am not entirely convinced of the Left's solutions to the concerns we have had and probably still have. In a system where a non-profit association made up of organisations that allocate themselves and each other means represents the exercise of authority, it is possible to imagine that there is an inherent, or built-in, problem in that the review does not work when you are going to review yourself. Both the Swedish National Audit Office and Statskontoret have pointed out in previous reports that this is a system that in itself creates incentives for volume hunting, for the only thing that determines how much money is allocated to the various study associations is this particular volume hunt. Although it is not in favour of introducing a new authority or transferring it to the MUCF, it should be borne in mind that a similar system – with an authority, the Agency for Youth and Civil Society, which distributes grants and supervises – is widely used by civil society as a whole. How does the Left Party view the issue of the allocation of funds and regulations? Does the Left Party see that there is any point at least in looking at those questions? It is clear that it is not a quick fix to introduce a new authority or to pass it on to an existing authority, but the regulatory framework as such and the funding principles may need to be reviewed. I think it would at least have been a good start to get more control over how these state subsidies are used.
i-SXTMkhfoprQto4cneduWb9	Madam President, I would like What has happened since this cheating was discovered has been very positive. New ways of working have been found both within the study associations themselves and within the Folkbildningsrådet. New structures have been put in place. Already when the bill was adopted here in the Riksdag, it was possible for the public – for the government – to appoint an external auditor. After all, the study associations themselves have asked for this. This is something that there is an opportunity to do. I do not remember exactly why it did not come into place in that situation, but if I remember correctly, the reason why it fell between the chairs was more of an administrative nature. I think it is absolutely important to have an audit that is independent from the study associations themselves, but we also see that the Board of the Folkbildningsrådet and the entire Folkbildningsrådet have been linked freer from folkhögskolan and study associations in recent times. I think we see many important steps in the right direction in order to achieve transparency. I agree with John Weinerhall that we should not create systems where there are incentives to inflate volumes and incentives to hourly or volume hunting, which you can talk about sometimes. We shall have a high quality in what is being implemented and ensure that we have a grant system that supports the development of qualitative activities. That's where I think John Weinerhall and I agree. Finally, I want to say something so that the audience will not believe that this is about a lot of strange things. Weinerhall mentioned two researchers who wrote a debate article and claimed that the cheating was about very large volumes. These were not researchers who had looked at this particular activity, but it was more of hearsay in their argumentation– they had heard from someone who had insight and so on. It was not research that had been conducted around this area; I want it to be clear.
i-SQ6Vy6uu153jcCttz4QT8s	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats see the enormous value of the folk high schools and study associations and of the work done by the study associations to correct irregularities. But my time is limited here in the speaker's chair, so I will now use my contribution in the debate for the gambling market and its consequences. I agree with all the reservations expressed by the Christian Democrats, but for time to come, I only support reservation number 12. As spring approaches after a dark winter and a pandemic, many look forward to brighter and healthier times. But gambling has increased during the pandemic, mainly when it comes to gambling on online casinos. The pandemic has led to an increase in layoffs, unemployment and social isolation, which are risk factors for developing gambling problems. According to the Swedish Public Health Agency, the number of players with problem gambling increased in 2020, but it has also done the number of self-exclusions via speltpaus.se. In a report from 2021 on consumer credit and the risk of over-indebtedness, the Swedish Consumer Agency states that financial difficulties are a major problem linked to gambling addiction and excessive gambling. According to the Kronofogden, 35 out of 150 applications for debt restructuring were due to gambling. The damage and negative effects of gambling must be reduced. The Gaming Inspectorate must be strengthened so that it can act effectively against unlicensed gaming companies. The government's proposal for measures to shut out unlicensed gambling and reduce the harmful effects of gambling on money is good. We Christian Democrats support an adjusted demand for moderation in the marketing of gambling to consumers. What we lack from the government is proposals on the rating of different games of money. This was proposed by the Gaming Market Survey in December 2020. Since some forms of gambling are more risky than others in developing gambling problems, the rules of the game should thus be different depending on the degree of danger involved, we mean. A rating would help to further protect consumers from risky gambling and gambling addiction. It is important for the players and important for the families. We have also proposed a series of measures to stop the debt spirals, which all too often affect people with risky gambling about money. We propose to introduce a ban on payments of credits at night. In Finland it is prohibited to pay out loans before 7 a.m. if they have been applied for and granted between 23 and 7. Similar rules should apply in Sweden. We also propose that the temporary limit for online casino deposits be lowered from SEK 5 000 to SEK 1 500 per week, with the corresponding loss limit for games of chance on vending machines. We want to strengthen the Inspectorate Games, so that it can act effectively against unlicensed gaming companies. The increase in gambling addiction and the serious consequences for families and children is something that we take very seriously. We need strong measures against rogue lenders and gambling companies, and we need to protect consumers and families more. Madam President, I would like I would also like to raise the issue of so-called restaurant casinos. They remind me of the state casinos, Casino Cosmopol, that there are now three of them in the country. But restaurant casinos work in practice under completely different conditions. They do it because of a gap in the law. In practice, this means that restaurant casinos do not have the same comprehensive consumer protection and regulations as other gaming companies with a Swedish license are required to have. As the law is applied today, for example, a person can turn himself off at state-owned Casino Cosmopol and the other regulated gaming market and then choose to instead go to a restaurant casino and there continue to play for big money. The duty of care, to which each gaming license holder has to live up to, includes combating excessive gambling through continuous control of gambling behaviour. A licence to provide restaurant casino games may be granted provided that there is a licence to serve under the Alcohol Act. Restaurant casinos are also subject to a duty of care, but the Swedish Gaming Authority has granted exemptions from the requirement, for example with regard to the registration of customers. It is clear from the gaming legislation that the licence holder must register the person wishing to participate in the game and that the player must state the name, address and personal identity number or equivalent on registration. The licence holder shall verify the identity of the player in a satisfactory manner. The exemption from registration of customers in restaurant casinos granted by the Inspectorate for Games means, inter alia: 中 it is not possible to turn off the game The possibility of following up customers and their potential losses disappears when the customer is not registered or how he has played 中 documentation in accordance with the duty of care is not possible when events, such as care calls, cannot be linked to a specific individual 中 work cannot be followed up by public authorities
i-8J39VEN4FSpSpwVfN5k1Hy	Let us make sure that this gap in the law is changed – for the benefit of those who cannot hold back their gambling, for the sake of their affected families and not least for the sake of the children!
i-B4WEaMGC8Arv4KEMQTt4L8	Madam President, I would like It is not possible to overestimate the importance of public education in Sweden. Every day thousands of people meet in study circles, at lectures, in groups, in study associations and in folk high schools and learn together. It happens throughout the country, in cities and in almost every small place. It's a popular movement with an enormous breadth. Almost everything can be discussed or practiced in a study circle. But at the heart of the business is learning, education, improvement and curiosity. The roots of public education go back to the times before the introduction of democracy in Sweden. The connection to the popular movements is clear. But in the form we know popular education today, with circles and folk high schools, popular education is equal with Swedish democracy. It is also closely linked to the emergence of democracy and the basic democratic ideas of freedom of expression, association and assembly. And for good reason it will take a large share of the credit for the strong democratic tradition we have in Sweden today. We are at the top of the democracy indices developed in different parts of the world, for example at the V-Dem Institute in Gothenburg. Public education should be free and voluntary. It is free from outside influences and is based on voluntary participation of all involved. Freedom also includes freedom from rating systems. But it is also a question of self-realization where participants are given great influence over content and learning and where the individual is strengthened by learning together to become an independent individual in the collective, the social community. Folk education is thus inclusive. It attracts different groups and draws participants widely from the population and creates conditions not only for the individual but also for an inclusive society. Madam President, I would like Folkhögskolan och studieförbund welcomes everyone across the country regardless of background and interest. However, a group that is important for peoples' education and for which peoples' education is particularly crucial is those who face obstacles or difficulties in other education systems. It may be people with disabilities or with unfinished studies in comprehensive school or upper secondary school but also new arrivals who through study associations and folk high schools are given the opportunity to enter basic eligibility for further studies or work. Based on one's own individual abilities, one learns together with others, grows in society or explores the Swedish democratic model based on civil society. Here peoples' education has a special role to play. Both study associations and folk high schools make a strong contribution to local cultural life by providing premises and infrastructure for cultural meetings and activities. Access to education throughout the country therefore needs to be ensured. The Green Party defends, values and trusts peoples' education. We believe that trust is a central and important concept in peoples' education. In my view, this fundamental attitude is completely opposed to the view and policy on the subject of peoples' education. We see in several municipalities that, on the contrary, the ruling majorities want to reduce support for peoples' education. Instead of defending, valuing and trusting, there is a question, a suspicion and even a suggestion to close down large parts of the population. Support for study associations has been reduced or withdrawn in a couple of municipalities. I believe that this is an alarming development that challenges local self-government. The Green Party wants to see a national initiative to protect the student associations and folk high schools across the country and to ensure that all adults in Sweden have good access to education. This requires a close dialogue with folk high schools to see how we can eventually develop folk high schools. I request the approval of reservation 2.
i-Gyb2Mbbdrc4Vo6GcdyVAsH	Madam President, I would like When French thinker Alexis de Tocqueville, shortly after the French Revolution, went to the United States to write about the development of democracy there and see what Europe could learn from the United States, he was struck by the habit that the Americans seemed to create voluntary associations to solve common problems. They did not wait for the king or any priest to speak up, but organized themselves and took hold of things. That happened in Sweden at the same time. The tradition of Folkbildnings- och föreningstraditionen is about how Sweden joined forces to solve things together. For peoples' education, it is about learning more about themselves and also learning more about society and the world around them, thus taking power over their own lives and contributing to the development of society and also taking power over it. It is a fine tradition that we must uphold. In the world of education, people talk about freedom and volunteering. It is precisely about people coming together and taking power into their own hands and doing things that solve problems in their vicinity. You learn about the climate. You learn Swedish from day one or new languages. You learn about beekeeping or the pension system. You learn about the possibilities of your mobile phone. You get another chance if you don't pass high school. You develop your musical talent. All of this happens for its own sake, but it also has consequences in many other places. You break solitude, build social networks and channel engagement. Those outside the labour market are given new opportunities, and much more is happening. People's education has great intrinsic value, but it also creates added value for other parts of society. One of the finest things that reflects this is taking responsibility for one's life and democracy – something that may seem particularly important this year – are the student associations and folk high schools that are now arranging for more people to participate in the elections this autumn. This applies not least to those who work with people with intellectual disabilities in order to increase their voting turnout. This also applies to folk high schools that invite politicians to debates. This connects so nicely the centuries-old tradition of popular education to strive for inclusion and democracy. However, there are also problems, Madam President. We have seen it in the form of cheating, carelessness and sometimes pure criminality. There are people who have used the systems for their own profit, and this is, of course, to be combated. It must be fought without losing what is good. That is the balance that is so important to have. When we politicians see a problem, we often want to take it seriously to stop it. Sometimes you just take too much and stop more than you had in mind. You use a large sledgehammer to handle a problem that really needs a more finely calibrated tool. I think we landed well when politics and public education together tried to meet the challenges that arose when quite a lot of cheating, criminality, irregularities and sometimes also negligence were discovered. But, of course, we must follow the situation very closely. Tax money should be used correctly. The risk of error should be minimised. Cheating should not be accepted. And crime should not occur in this business. It is particularly serious when non-democratic forces try to use democratic structures for their purposes. This must be countered. It is therefore a good thing that the conditions for democracy are now on the way. There are reasons to have them, but there is also reason to problematize this. It is not a simple question. Sometimes we who like democracy and stand up for democracy must be able to debate with those who threaten democracy. The democratic work of civilisation must not just be a safe place for those of us who already like democracy, where no one questions what is being said. Furthermore, if we want to reach those who hesitate in the face of democracy – there are quite a few in Sweden who are sceptical about democracy and who do not see it as something self-evident – we may sometimes also have to face them. There is also the problem of democracy conditions somewhere. We must face those who are opposed to democracy in order to secure democracy, and then peoples must also be used for that purpose. Then democracy must not stand up to the long-term objective. Anyone who burns books or starts riots, Madam President, might go to a study circle instead. Sometimes you feel very good about the slow and sometimes boring discussions of democracy. The very ones who need the slow and boring discussions and face arguments are perhaps the ones that are most difficult to reach for the education of the people. Madam President, I would like This report also deals with some motions on gambling issues. The government has announced that a bill will come in the spring. Let's hope it comes to Parliament's table. It is good that the government backs up and does not go further with the idea that the marketing of gambling should be equated with the marketing of, for example, alcohol by requiring special moderation. This was stopped after broad and sharp criticism from several quarters. I think it is wise to listen to that criticism. The tightening of requirements would be a rather severe blow to the media and the society. It would also very probably mean a reduction in channelling, which is a central part of the re-regulation of the gambling market. A regulated gambling market must be able to weigh different interests against each other. There is a need for a balance where regulation is hard enough to reduce the risk of abuse but not so hard that it shuts out players and gaming companies and transfers them to non-channeled and non-regulated activities instead. Serious companies that take responsibility should have good conditions, and players at risk of abuse should receive support and help. Some games are less addictive than others, and it must be noticed in the regulation. Gambling is an important part of large parts of society in Sweden, and it must also be noticed in gaming policy. We need to strike a balance between these different parts. I am pleased that we have had a serious and constructive debate and discussion with the industry on these issues. Madam President, I would like I and the Liberals have very many views on the issues dealt with in this report, but we do not have any motion requests being dealt with. That is why I am abstaining from insisting on something right now.
i-CxQrEaVqwtKsqML2gqqiGn	Madam President, I would like Throughout history, man has always, throughout the world, engaged in games of various kinds. Playing can be about excitement. It may be a matter of being part of a social context, or maybe it's just a pastime. It can also be about participating in the successes and setbacks of the favourite sport. Moreover, it is only to be noted that gambling nowadays is also associated with our great festivals – for who here has not gathered with family and friends in front of Bingolotto's sitter night the day before Christmas Eve? Yes, gambling is a popular pleasure, and the gaming policy we are debating here today is about creating the framework and conditions for this people's pleasure to continue to be healthy and safe – and about ensuring that we have the right tools to prevent people's content from becoming a public health problem. Madam President, I would like The progress of technology and digitalisation have had a major impact on how we play. In the 2010s, foreign gaming companies targeting Swedish players became more and more common – suddenly it was enough to have a mobile phone to be able to play at a casino. In practice, the Swedish gaming monopoly was thus set off systems, and the tools for managing the aggressive gaming companies and the major consequences of their operations were few. It was against this background that the Social Democratic led government worked to bring in significant changes in Swedish gaming policy, which then led to a new law on 1 January 2019. This also abolished the Swedish gambling monopoly. The new licensing system that came into place means that all players who want to offer games to Swedish players online must have a gaming license from the Inspectorate Games and pay tax on their Swedish revenues. The new law also regulates how the gaming companies can market their games as well as what offers they can use to attract customers. However, it became quite soon clear that parts of the new licensing system needed to be further strengthened, and the government therefore made a new proposal on 27 January 2022 to strengthen gambling regulation with a view to further strengthening consumer protection and creating the conditions for a long-term and sustainable gambling market. The proposal is intended to prevent market participants from marketing gambling advertising aggressively in relation to the most dangerous games and to exclude illegal operators from the Swedish gambling market. In this respect, the Government will submit a proposal in May 2022. Madam President, I would like The government's commitment to these issues is only about one thing. It is about protecting individuals from the devastating consequences of addiction. Getting stuck in gambling addiction creates problems that involve relationships, work and economics. Being a gambling addict often means playing to try to win back what you lost. Therefore, it is also common for gambling addicts to become very indebted. Unfortunately, there is also a great shame associated with gambling addiction, and in my conversations with various organizations they highlight that there is a large number of dark cases of suicide linked to gambling addiction. Unfortunately, the Swedish Public Health Agency also estimates that about 3 per cent of 16 – 17-year-olds in Sweden today have some degree of gambling problems. So we're talking about young people who risk having their lives ruined very early. I do not mean that we will be able to eradicate all gambling addiction, but I am pleased to see that there are measures in place – measures that have begun to have an effect. Statskontoret, which has evaluated the effects of the re-regulation of the gaming market, estimates that the gaming market worked better in 2021 than in 2018. Reregulation has improved the conditions for achieving the Parliament's objectives for the gaming area, i.e. that the gaming market should be under public control, have a strong level of consumer protection and protect the revenue from gambling to associations and the state. Madam President, I would like While we regulate and create clearer laws for the gaming market in Sweden, it is important to remember the importance of revenue from the gaming market for, among other things, the sports movement, the Swedish civil society, the popular movements and, for example, the horse industry. We must continue to protect and guard this. A healthy and safe gaming market benefits the individual and society. It has always been the Social Democratic approach, and it is also on the basis of that principle that we shape our gaming policy. I call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-HhCmuFaj78dZnvfWEZTg97	Madam President, I would like The modern labour market is dynamic and full of opportunities, but it also requires development and lifelong learning. On behalf of society and organisations, student associations and folk high schools, in addition to the more traditional activities of study circles and courses, are engaged in activities that broaden and deepen people's skills and strengthen their attractiveness in the labour market. Experience shows that the various actors in education and training have been successful in helping people who do not come to their own in the formal education system and in helping them to establish themselves in the labour market. In March 2014, the Alliance government presented a bill called Alla's knowledge – everyone's education. The bill included a new goal formulation for state education policy, and it also clarified the state's ambitions with politics and that the target group of adult education is wider than the target group for adult education. The bill presented a new model for the evaluation of people's education and its effects. Given the important role of adult education in society, it is important to regularly evaluate this activity with the support of state grants organised by folk high schools and student associations. This should be done with much greater systematics. The Alliance Government also commissioned Statskontoret to hold the evaluation together with support from the Institute for Labour Market and Education Policy Evaluation and the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis. In the final report that came, Statskontoret assessed that folk high schools and study associations need to develop several areas in order to really become a popular education in time. Folkbildning also needs to match its activities with developments in society. The study associations reach many different groups in society, but these are often groups that are already organised into associations of different kinds. Reaching out to people who are not organized is a challenge, and it requires associations to develop new ways of working. Discussions over the past few years on government contributions to both religious communities and other civil society organisations have taken up a great deal of space. There are several examples where organisations have received criticism – and also examples where they have received state subsidies withdrawn. The study association Ibn Rushd is probably the study association that has by far raised the most discussion on the issue of State aid payments in recent years. Several studies have been undertaken to review the study associations – the latest on the initiative of the Folkbildningsrådet. Over the years, criticism has come from terrorist researcher Magnus Ranstorp. Not infrequently, when democratic shortcomings are highlighted, cosmetic changes have been made to statutes, for example, and representatives have made prayers. However, these measures do not address the structural problems caused by a fundamentally questionable value base. Madam President, I would like The Moderates see no fundamental reason why study associations cannot rest on a religious basis. On the contrary, many religiously based organisations are an important part of our civil society. On the other hand, the state cannot and should not fund organisations that challenge Western liberal democracy. Therefore, the Riksdag should call on the Government to tighten up the democratic conditions for student grants for adult education so that grants cannot be awarded to democratically hesitant study associations. Both benefit systems and supervision of study associations should be evaluated. Today, the Folkbildningsrådet also has an authority-like assignment despite the fact that it is a non-profit association made up of members to which it distributes grants. This may lead to a lack of supervision and incorrect distributions of grants. Statskontoret also points out in its report that there is a need for better governance of the grants. On several occasions, it has been shown that many study associations have been subjected to fraud where the same participants have been involved in study circles in several study associations at the same time. It's something we need to curb. The fact that the state supports organisations is, of course, one thing, but the state subsidies should focus on activities that clearly promote integration rather than gathering people solely on the basis that they share a certain ethnicity. Therefore, contributions to organisations formed solely on an ethnic basis should be abolished. Madam President, I would like I commend the Moderates' reservation number three.
i-E2qc9LA47uDyU6c9sCUy4s	I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 4. The roots of Nordic and Swedish education can be sought in Denmark and in the pursuit of a strengthened citizenship and national community at the time. In its early years, peoples' education had a crucial role to play in the chances of the less well-off to achieve education and personal development – which in turn was an important basis for the further process of democratisation. As a complement to the educational options of the public sector and as a route to social community and a dissemination of the desire to learn, peoples' education also today has an important role to play in our society. Forming the people increases the opportunities for self-realisation of the population and individuals, but also their ability to participate actively in the democratic processes of society. Peoples' education is therefore considered to have played an important role in the development of democracy. Free and voluntary are part of the democratic aims of peoples' education, that is to say, a deeper kind of and more socially-centred vision of democracy that takes into account the conditions of democracy. This is done by emphasising equality, equality, equalisation of educational gaps, widening participation in culture and the important role of peoples' movements. These factors are considered to be prerequisites for democratic decision-making, i.e. the ability of the population to volunteer for democracy not only because education increases the individual's ability to participate in the social debate but also as an assurance that individuals can form in subjects and areas that companies or the state consider unimportant or want to withhold from the citizens. People's education thus provides the tools to enable citizens to participate in shaping the debate on society. Folk education still plays a very important role in our democracy and will remain an important component in the future. It is a body for the improvement and formation of both the mental abilities and reason. Having said that, we Swedish democrats mean that there is still some potential for improvement around the systems of public education. These are changes that we believe can give peoples' education greater credibility and a higher relevance to the Swedish people in the present and in the future. Madam President, I would like One of our proposals concerns a change in who should decide on the allocation of funds to the public education actors. The Folkbildningsrådet is today the Council that decides on this. It is a non-profit association with certain government assignments given by the Riksdag and the Government. The Council is governed by its own statutes and its members, and the Council also carries out audits and follow-up of the correct use of funds. Although the Folkbildningsrådet has many own control systems to ensure that taxpayers' money is used properly, we feel that it is problematic that an organisation consisting of the actors involved in adult education is also the one that benefits and monitors the use of funds in the field of adult education. Investigations of fraud in the field of adult education have shown, among other things, how study associations have wrongly resorted to State aid. A widespread problem of misuse of tax funds further highlights the need for reform of the system of allocation of funds. Since several errors have been made, it is clear that the Folkbildningsrådet is not working satisfactorily in its current form. Our proposal is therefore that a new player who is independent of the activities that receive funds should be given the task of allocating the funds to peoples' education. We therefore believe that it should be examined whether and how a newly created or existing authority can manage the funds allocated to peoples' education.
i-Q8mKzcmi9ZiJHkF6JkCM1c	Madam President, I would like I thought Mr Bo Broman's speech was interesting. I would like, out of curiosity, to discuss the question of another authority carrying out the audit and distributing money. I would like to ask a question very honestly for the sake of knowledge and education. The first part of Bo Broman's speech was about the importance of the education being free and also being able to form in things that the state does not want you to form about. Is there a possible conflict between the view that peoples' education must be able to engage in things that politicians and the state do not want and at the same time have a state authority that pays money for what peoples' education should do and evaluate peoples' education afterwards? Could there be a conflict between the two positions?
i-GxG1U5AHPrJL65gLSjnZTb	Madam President, I would like I thank Christer Nylander for the question. There are numerous instances today that receive funds allocated by others. We can actually look at the whole area of culture. Such an authority must of course have arm's length distance, just like everything else in the field of culture – even if this is about education, not culture. Of course there could be a risk of conflict, but I see no great risk of conflict. Rather, I see a greater opportunity to have better control of how funds are allocated and a better follow-up of the activities of peoples' education.
i-7Bak6JPMvB16ubwgYiDbdz	Madam President, I would like I asked the question because democracy arose from the fact that people gathered for a time when there was no democracy, at a time when freedom of expression was not self-evident and where power was sometimes the enemy of democracy. I know that there is a need to tighten up regulations, and there is a desire to become better at controlling and following up. At the same time, one reason why I am a little sceptical that it is going to an authority precisely with freedom and voluntaryism. I think it is good that Bo Broman is also thinking about this and sees that there may be a problem. Thank you for that transparency. That is why I would like to follow up with a question – if we could instead have it so that the Education Council continues to reform itself in order to maintain the freedom and voluntary spirit that exists and, at the same time, tighten up the scrutiny that is needed.
i-FtMxLFM9qG45iPeKseiztr	Madam President, I would like Continued reform is, of course, an option. What we want to add is, of course, an investigation to see if there is a need for an authority that can fill the role that the Folkbildningsrådet has today and perhaps do the work in an even better way than the Folkbildningsrådet does today. None of us want funds to go to activities that do not fulfil the original purpose of popular education. They are not to be used by users of the system. Both the regulatory framework and the financial allocation system need to be reviewed. We think that the Folkbildningsrådet can be part of such an investigation to see who should take care of both the funds and the follow-up of them.
i-DnCXeafGD6yktm7D3mnyD2	Madam President, I would like It is not possible to talk about peoples' education and democracy without touching the horrendous war that is going on in Ukraine, so close to us. At the same time we have seen terrible scenes in several of Sweden's cities when the police during the Easter weekend had to defend Swedish law and Swedish freedom of expression with life as an effort. Violence was directed against the democratic values of our society as a whole. The Ukrainians are fighting a war, a war for democracy. They are also fighting that war for us, so we must stand up for democracy and protect human rights. The study associations made a significant contribution during the refugee flow in 2015. They taught Swedish from day one and contributed with a valuable first contact with Swedish society. But it's not just a matter of point action. For those who are new to a country, support and help may be needed for many years to come. People's education can meet that need. It has low thresholds, it is free and voluntary and its unique way of working and pedagogy focuses on long-term changes for each person. Once again, the study associations, together with civil society and municipalities, have joined forces and acted quickly, flexibly and locally. The study associations are located in all of Sweden's municipalities, in villages, cities and suburbs, and their efforts are extremely important. Madam President, I would like In my municipality of residence, only in the small community of Middlesel with 750 inhabitants, on Saturday and Sunday one weekend they received 120 refugees. Although many were tired after the refugee wave in 2015, they stood there and received with open arms. They screwed up furniture, they delivered food, clothes and bicycles and they offered Swedish from day one. There is also the Middle East folk high school. Folkbildningen offers rooms for conversations and discussions. Through its unique pedagogy, it provides more people with the opportunity to learn and experience and participate in culture and educational work. It is important for public health and self-confidence and provides training in democratic responsibility and leadership. It gives people the opportunity to shape their lives, stand up for their rights and demand part of the power and be able to participate actively in the whole of society. Folk high schools and study associations play an important role for people who have not received education in other education systems. Folk education is the basis for the development of democracy and the basic democratic ideas of freedom of expression, association and assembly. This is a strong contributory reason why Sweden is at the top of the list when talking about democratic countries. Madam President, I would like The pandemic has affected the activities of adult education. This has meant new ways to meet and increased digital activities. Extensive activities could not be carried out in 2020 and 2021. Digitalisation of the business has taken major steps forward. But some people have less opportunity to meet digitally. This can apply to groups such as the elderly, people with disabilities or those who need to learn the Swedish language. Many activities in the fields of music, art and crafts also function poorly or cannot be carried out digitally at all, but are based on physical presence. Folk high schools are already starting to equip themselves to receive more young people who have failed high school or have fallen behind due to the pandemic. We can also note that the proportion of participants with special needs has increased in folk high schools. We are already making great efforts to meet each individual's needs in order to create participation and the opportunity to influence their life situation for the future. That is why we Social Democrats want to emphasise that people's education is an important and growing player for people with different backgrounds and different conditions. We want to strengthen their position in the labour market by offering vocational training, general courses, distance courses, summer courses and much more. It is particularly important for people born abroad, those with a short education, young people who have not completed their upper secondary school studies and people with disabilities. These groups need support to enter the labour market. Madam President, I would like A number of cases of fraud and irregularities have created a serious crisis of confidence in public education. When tax funds for peoples' education are misused, it means that there are those who miss the opportunity to participate in free and voluntary learning. We look forward to the investigation of democracy conditions and increased control efforts and the Swedish National Audit Office's review. We need to see increased governance, increased control and follow-up of our funds. State contributions to the education of the people shall be exclusively devoted to activities that fulfil the aims of the state with the grant and that strengthen our common democracy. If there should be no doubt at all. Madam President, I would like To not invest in peoples' education is to miss a chance to strengthen and protect democracy in Sweden – and throughout Europe. In conclusion, I would like to reject all the motions and support the Committee's proposal on adult education in the report.
i-YEobpFtiWe5oVLjcMQtsVj	Madam President, I would like I thought I'd shift the focus to game issues and talk a little bit about e-sports. E-sport – or electronic sport, for which it is short – is a collective concept for games and competitions performed on computers, game consoles, phones and tablets in a virtual environment where people play different kinds of digital games on their own, in teams or against each other. In fact, 80 percent of Sweden's population play digital games in some form. E-sport embraces so much more than the stereotypical image of a youth in front of a computer screen. Counter-Strike, Starcraft, Counter-Strike, Battlefield, Dota, Minecraft and League of Legends are examples of known computer games. But even easier mobile games such as Wordfeud, Candy Crush and Angry Birds are examples of e-sport. Several of these games have also been developed in Sweden. E-sporten has put Sweden on the map and contributes everything from jobs to tax revenue but is nevertheless not considered a formal form of culture, unlike, for example, film and music. In fact, Swedish e-sports has the highest turnover in Europe and last year it had a turnover of over half a billion SEK. However, when the e-sport is not recognised as an official sport and a cultural form, it involves a large number of problems and challenges, which unfortunately risks leading to Sweden losing its leading position in the field. Today, e-sport brings together millions of enthusiasts around the world. The really big e-sport events bring together tens of thousands of people on site, and there are today special television channels that only show e-sports. As a concrete example, the finale of the League of Legends, which 2018 was seen by more than 60 million people worldwide. In Sweden, for example, there is the LAN festival Dreamhack, which both 2010 and 2013 set world records in number at the same time connected computers in one place. In 2007, Dreamhack's founder also received an honorary award from Jönköping Municipality. The reason was that the event had significance for the municipality, business and the city college. If e-sport is classified as an official sport which is also included in the cultural concept, many of the obstacles currently present will be solved automatically. Grants can then be applied for by local e-sport associations to enable them to operate on the same terms as the local dart club. Games and gambling in e-sports would be controlled to the same extent as games on football and hockey. Large Swedish e-sport events could more easily accept foreign contestants, who would not be dependent on a tourist or work visa to participate, and so on. E-sports is today classified as an official sport in over 20 countries. The Swedish Democrats believe that Sweden should join this group and therefore believe that, as a whole, e-sport should be classified as an official sport in order to recognise the e-sport in itself and to give the e-sport the same conditions as other sports in Sweden. But is e-sport a sport? Is that a sport? The term ‘sport' means a physical activity or exercise that can be performed on its own or in a group. The term sport refers to the same type of activity but with the addition of the element of competition, i.e. that you measure your performance in relation to other practitioners. Darts, chess and poker are three examples of sports where the effort is more mental than physical. In exactly the same way, the e-sport is an activity based on mental effort, focus and concentration, which in connection with competition can last for several hours. For a long time, society has watched the e-sport from an outdated picture of a young man who drinks soft drinks and eats unhealthy amounts of chips in front of a computer and plays music at very high volume. Despite the fact that this picture today is far from the reality that prevails, it persists, which in turn is one of the reasons for opposition to recognising e-sports as an official sport and sport. The Swedish Democrats are today the only party in the Riksdag that has a pronounced policy for e-sports, gathered in a committee motion. Otherwise, we have only seen individual motions from interested Members from individual parties, but proposals that are not followed up even by Members' own respective parties. It is very sad that Parliament and the government do not see and acknowledge the enormous potential that e-sport actually has and what it could mean for our country. If you do not get your eyes open soon, Sweden will lose its leading position in this area. The e-sport is as much a temporary fly as the internet, as someone guessed a number of years ago. The e-sport is here to stay, and it's growing explosively. And the only party that sees this is the Swedish Democrats.
i-KA8vtnQisgdVC5mDGjAq1A	Madam President, I would like Culture – all the different beautiful forms of art, as a wise cultural journalist called it. There are museums, literature, music, theatre, image, form, circus – yes, what do we really know? Perhaps what we do not even know today is culture tomorrow. Culture is also an industry, Madam President, which has a turnover of many billions and over 200 000 employees in Sweden. We Moderates want culture to flourish, that cultural workers should be able to support themselves and that culture should be free from political flaws. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, there is hardly any industry in Sweden that is so severely affected by the pandemic shutdown and by government decisions on restrictions such as the cultural industry. Never before have so many in the industry been dependent on applying for grants in order to survive at all. We Moderates see as our primary task to try to change and do what we can to make culture as free as possible. Today, Madam President, cultural organisation and state support for culture are a thorn. There are 23 authorities and 26 companies and foundations under the Ministry of Culture and the Committee on Culture. Several studies have pointed this out, and as recently as two weeks ago when the Swedish National Audit Office evaluated the functioning of pandemic support in the cultural sector, a sharp recommendation came to the conclusion of the Swedish National Audit Office: The Swedish National Audit Office makes the following recommendation to the Government: Review whether grants in the cultural field can be coordinated to a greater extent. The aim is to simplify the application process for applicants and create better conditions for using the authorities' overall resources and competences. ..................................................... And, Madam President, this is exactly what we Moderates feel. We want the money to go to culture and cultural workers and not, as today, to authorities, officials, administration and political governance. Therefore, Madam President, we Moderates would like to call for the approval of reservation number 1, where we propose an investigation into the structure of government agencies and the governance of culture from the state, but also a new cultural inquiry. Much of our knowledge and many of the decisions we make today are based on the Alliance Government's 2009 cultural investigation. But, Madam President, times have changed and so, of course, culture. We Moderates therefore, in addition to a review of the whole structure of government with the aim of making more money directly accessible to culture, naturally also want to include how we can support what we do not even know today, but which is perhaps tomorrow's culture.
i-FMFqMNUasM8oXGv4rSJw9c	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of our Amendment No 11, entitled 'Intangible cultural cannon'. This weekend we have seen terrible scenes from violent riots in several cities around Sweden. Örebro, Norrköping, Linköping, Landskrona and Malmö have all suffered riots, riots, stone stones and car fires. Rootless youth gangs and thugs but also adults, women and children have participated in the senseless attacks on the police and society. As we all know, Koran burning has been used as an excuse to show their anger and rage against Swedish police, against Swedish society and against Swedish freedom of expression. Here in Sweden it is perfectly permissible to mock religions and burn religious writings. And so it should be, just as it should be allowed to speak about and mock us politicians and political parties or anything else in society. Freedom of expression is a cornerstone of Swedish society. What does this now have to do with the Culture for All report, I am sure you are thinking. Well, during the weekend, I wondered what had gone wrong in society when such riots occurred in our alienated areas. What can we politicians do to prevent this? Is there anything preventive we could have done? In the field of culture, as in all other policy areas here in Parliament, we Swedish democrats have a broad policy – a policy that has been more and more copied by other parties in several other areas after we first had to run a gauntlet and have been called both one and the other for presenting it. Excessive immigration in recent years has led to a lack of integration, as most other parties in parliament now admit. Integration is A and O for a functioning society, a functioning Sweden. It is of the utmost importance that as a new citizen of a country, you learn how it works in that country, what laws and rules there are, how society is built and how culture in that country works – how culture in Sweden works – the Swedish culture that the Minister for Culture and many others have so much difficulty in recognising. Madam President, I would like Culture has a central place in life, politics and the construction of society. For us Swedish democrats, it is obvious that Sweden, like all other countries, is unique and that Swedish culture is unique and well worth preserving and highlighting. It is particularly important to highlight the importance of Swedish culture for the peaceful, democratic and solidarity-based welfare society in which we live. For Sweden, we see it as more important than for a long time to gather around common norms and values, traditions, customs and practices to stay together. This is particularly important in a society with jointly funded welfare, because the solidarity that sustains the system is based on a common identity and a strong sense of community. Our proposals for new cultural policy objectives together with our motion on the development of a cultural cannon will generate a foundation where cultural policy becomes the engine that brings society together. There, citizens feel community through their belonging to society and each other, between town and country, between different political views, between different religions, between rich and poor, and between old and young. Common reference points and reference frameworks are important for communication and understanding between people in society. Without good communication and understanding, cohesion suffers. It becomes easier for people to distinguish themselves from others and create groups with us and them. The largest community we know of that has managed to create a functioning system with a developed welfare state is societies with a common culture. In the history of such a society there are natural reference points to gather around in the form of objects, events, places and expressions that shaped the society in which citizens live. This presupposes, however, that citizens have a good knowledge of their society and the country's history and environment. One tool to give all citizens the opportunity to learn about Swedish society and culture is to establish a cultural cannon. For example, our neighbour Denmark has produced a culture cannon – one for important cultural artifacts and one for immaterial Danish culture. There is also a strong need in Sweden for a broader and in-depth discussion of subjects such as culture, history and identity. In a time of widespread disinterest in cultural policy issues and rootlessness – even questioning the very existence of Swedish culture – we consider that there is great value in encouraging greater reflection on cultural heritage and those parts of it that are considered particularly valuable or particularly important for the formation of Swedish identity and that we therefore want to carry with us into the future. It facilitates the future development of a society if citizens understand each other and if they understand the cultural foundation on which society is based. In other words, if our proposals had been implemented or copied, we might not have seen and experienced the disastrous scenes that took place this weekend. Once again, we have shown that we have the solutions to the problems before they arise. We are the party that sees things coming and has the solutions long before the rest of you. Madam President, I would like I look with some concern at the increasingly frequent and hateful tone of the government against the opposition and how reform proposals that are timed and need-tested with heavy brush strokes are painted as threats to free cultural life and democracy. It's, as we all understand, blows in the air. Opposition policy is the very definition of democracy. However, what modern and thought-out social conservatism in the field of culture, as in other areas, threatens is precisely the status quo and the social democratic cultural policy that has characterised the country since the functionalistic engineering of the 1970s. We must dare to think new and create the conditions for a more diversified and invulnerable funding of cultural life and a free cultural life without a norm-making identity policy or, for that matter, bureaucratic overcoats from public quarters, as we see in some places today. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by saying something about the day-form of cultural life and the direction of national cultural policy and complacency. Cultural Sweden has been hit hard by the coronapandemine. Cancelled performances and closed exhibitions, uncertainty about upcoming planned events, loss of audience and other loss of revenue have been everyday for the industry during the crisis. On the one hand, this is not surprising but a consequence of the nature of the activities, as large parts of the cultural sector are oriented towards public activities based on experiences and encounters between people. On the other hand, it shows the vulnerability of today's system. The actors in cultural life need more bones to stand on and be stimulated to a higher level of crisis preparedness. Recognising that goal and then working together to create those opportunities between public, civil society and the individual cultural actor is an important step in equipping cultural life in Sweden to remain stable in future trials. It is not only a question of preparedness and perseverance, but also of survival and freedom of culture.
i-9KE9795Ur7P94EMY66vB4M	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 8, although I naturally support all the proposals made by the Center Party. The title of today's report, Culture for All, is three words which, for me, mean freedom, accessibility, reflection and creation – taking advantage of the culture that exists and creating new ones. This is a prerequisite for the development of one's locality. In order to promote culture throughout the country, I would like to strengthen or develop the model of cultural cooperation. I would like regions, in conjunction with the national level, to develop a national cultural plan. One way of creating national and international interest in our cultural life could be to set up a system for a national Capital of Culture year. The idea is then that every two years a Swedish city would have the status of a national capital of culture. This could enrich and show what is in that city. Not only do they need to be large cities, but it can also be smaller cities, towns and places that can lift their culture. It is a way of getting attention and also strengthening culture across the country. A more decentralised cultural policy can contribute to a cultural life based on regional wishes and conditions and thus also develop in a more free way in relation to state cultural policy. It gets to look different in different parts of the country. You have different specific parts that you might be able to make both better and stronger than today. Therefore, parts of the culture currently on the state should be able to be transferred to regions. The cultural cooperation model could then develop this and the regional priorities would have a greater impact. When support is given to various activities in one area, it contributes to the conditions for cultural practice and consumption in the area. Although governance through grants is not about content, supply is affected in this way. Therefore, it is important to reconsider support, so that there can be greater variety of activities that give these improved opportunities to operate. The task of politics is to create the conditions for a broad and free cultural life throughout the country. A basic condition is that there is an infrastructure for this breadth of culture. Parts of the infrastructure require public funding in order for everyone to be able to participate in cultural activities, throughout the country. We need cultural schools, associations, study associations, which we have discussed before, assembly halls, public and private museums and theatres, and more. Cultural and creative industries are also part of all this. The same applies to the cultural offering provided by public service. Public service is important both when there is a crisis and when we need to watch entertainment, so to speak. There is reason to review the legal protection of a free culture. For example, if you form foundations for certain cultural activities, culture is more free from political influence. Further measures are necessary to provide better and fairer conditions for cultural and creative industries and free cultural life. And elements of cultural policy should be investigated. The Coronapendem, as previous speakers have mentioned, has hit hard. And we have been deeply committed to finding solutions to support this important industry in these difficult times. But we also want to look ahead. It should be offered entrepreneurship education at artistic and folk high schools. In order to make it easier for cultural creators, information on the types of aid available should be provided. This can be gathered in one place so that applicants can get an overview of, among other things, application periods.
i-UHP8QjHU3DCiPw2uZDWsY5	Madam President, I would like It is the responsibility of society to give all children and young people in the country equal opportunities to build on the first desire for discovery and creativity. It's about seeking knowledge and learning new things and expanding your world and finding new contexts. It is therefore fundamental that all children throughout their childhood have access to cultural activities where they themselves are creative but also that they experience professionally practiced culture in all genres. One of the national cultural policy objectives that we in Parliament have adopted is that everyone should pay particular attention to children's and young people's right to culture. And several of the articles of the Convention on the Rights of the Child deal with children's right to culture. In some regions and municipalities there is today a cultural guarantee that gives all pupils a certain number of stage performances during school hours. Other students can complete their schooling without coming into contact with an artistic activity or a museum visit. The Left Party sees the need for a cultural lift for the school to guarantee all Swedish children access to culture. We have a series of suggestions for what could be included in such a boost, including school libraries with trained staff in all schools, a performance guarantee and a major reform of the Creative School. And that is the proposal that is on the table today: cultural educators in the schools of the country, as a bridge between the cultural sector and the school. There's a piece of the puzzle missing today. In the motion dealt with in the report, the focus is on cultural heritage. Therefore, my examples will come precisely from that sector. Cooperation between schools and cultural institutions is important in opening doors to culture for children and young people. The government museums' policy documents stress that they should specifically integrate a child's perspective and carry out educational activities. Many cultural heritage institutions offer programme activities aimed at the school and cooperate with the school system or organisations within the school area. Similarly, the governance documents for different school forms in the school system stress the importance of pupils meeting the cultural heritage of teaching. But despite the fact that there is both a range and a governance for students to take part in activities at museums, world heritage sites and archives, this does not happen in a systematic way throughout the country. In connection with the Culture Committee's handling of the proposal Cultural Heritage Policy, the Riksdag issued an announcement to the Government that it should also be investigated how cooperation between museums' activities and teaching at school could be strengthened. Now the National Heritage Office has reported back that mission. Their report notes that museums, archives and world heritage sites have become much better at providing programmes and materials adapted to the curriculum, but few are targeted at preschools and special schools. Madam President, I would like The report also shows that many teachers are very positive about taking part in the exhibitions and material of the cultural heritage institutions. But economics, lack of time and geographical distances are obstacles. The pandemic has speeded up digitalisation, and this means increased accessibility for preschools and schools. The National Antiquities Board notes that what is now missing in the chain of command is a person who follows up the children's right to culture at school. We see that there is a need for a new professional role in the school world, the cultural educator, which can be a link between culture and school and the guarantor called for by the National Heritage Office. We therefore propose that the Government investigate what conditions already exist and what measures need to be taken to ensure that each school can have a cultural teacher attached to it. I would like to endorse our reservation 10.
i-L62pXd2iTVg8XxHUkZJjaR	Madam President, I would like I support all the reservations expressed by the Christian Democrats, but for the benefit of time, I only ask for reservation number 9. In the experiences that we now have of violence in our society, I believe that culture can unite. One might think that we are totally different depending on whether we are from northern Europe or southern Europe or the Middle East. But I don't think it's that simple. What causes these violence, I believe, is primarily the feeling of exclusion, that one is invisible and does not feel that one is part of society. You can put this against the famous psychologist Aaron Antonovsky, who speaks of the meaning of life, humanly speaking. It is the sense of context and the fact that you have a task. Feel that expression: to be part of a context and feel that you have a task. It creates inclusion. Don't get me wrong! We all have a responsibility for the actions we carry out. But there are counter-forces, and culture is one of them. A good example is El Sistema in Gothenburg. The Gothenburg Symphony Orchestra travels to the suburbs with its instruments. You get to feel them. It also involves parents. You don't have parents' meetings once a month or once a semester, but every week. In other words, it creates the inclusion of adults as well. There is another counter-force, and it is all volunteers, volunteers, who are making great efforts in our society. And there are many of them. They are the ones who make life bearable for the rest of us. They're the ones who'll do it. They give of themselves without having to get anything back. It is a strong force in our society, which I very much appreciate. I have a motion here. It is about something called the cultural cooperation model. Maybe it's not a kiosk roller in an election campaign. It is not very well known to the general public. Many people wonder what the model of cultural cooperation is. It was introduced by the Alliance Government and applied since 2011. It is also accepted by the left parties. It has simply been moved on with. It is a very good and important construction, not least on the basis of subsidiarity, which is perhaps also a strange word. Instead of the state paying out funds to the country's cultural institutions through the Arts Council, the money is sent to the regions. This means strong confidence in the regions of the country. In collaboration between municipalities and associations, the regions manage the distribution of grants. One effect is already that the dialogue between municipalities and the region has been strengthened. It also creates great equality in terms of culture throughout the country. I really think it's a good model. I just wish it had a different name. We Christian Democrats also welcome the study to develop the model of cultural cooperation. Then you might be able to come up with a better name when investigating this. The various regions are now given the opportunity to express their views and provide the basis for the investigation. An important element that exists as a request from the regions is that money is not sent outside the regions to different interests but that there is coordination of the model. It is desirable out there among the different regions. One concern, however, is that the development of costs is faster than is reflected in the money spent on the regions for the cultural cooperation model. This year, payments to the regions are estimated at 0.8%. However, inflation is as high as 4 to 5 per cent. Now 100 million has been compensated for in itself. But the regions themselves have to spend money to make it work. Madam President, I would like Earlier this spring, we raised the issue of artistic freedom. It is an extremely important part of a functioning cultural life, which is now coming back to us in this report. It is different from other professions to be cultural workers. I know it myself, because I'm a cultural worker. I've been freelanced and at the same time worked as a teacher for many years. I've noticed that it's not that easy to go around and try to get by in this business. It may depend on what basis you have when you bet, but it is not easy for most people. Of course, the pandemic has been extremely difficult for this industry. If there is permanent work on the labour market as a whole, jobs in the cultural sector are usually temporary and unemployment is high. You have temporary jobs, or gigs as we call it sometimes. Political awareness is needed to make decisions that increase the conditions for cultural creators to experience security. There is a report which we sometimes come back to, and which we have had in the debate before. It is called So free is the art and is made by the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis. It's very interesting. It states that parts of the state grant are governed and implemented with negative impact on artistic freedom and that the principle of arm's length is not possible to apply fully at regional or municipal level. At different levels, mainly regional, there is objective management that risks adversely affecting artistic freedom. The report states, among other things, that cultural analysis estimates that there is governance that cannot be justified on the basis of the objective of independence, but also not on the basis of the cultural policy objectives as a whole. It's pretty serious. There was also a survey on the impact of governance. 33 percent of surveyed artists and cultural creators have replied that they have at some point refrained from applying for grants because of the assessment criteria they experience are in conflict with artistic freedom. Let us safeguard artistic freedom, even when there is a need for financial support to facilitate or even survive as an artist. You simply need a grant. Of course it's okay. But we'll have to watch out. Criteria are set so that the beneficiary meets certain criteria for receiving money or receiving compensation. Sometimes I get the question: What is the best piece of music you know? I just need to mention it. When I was sitting here, I almost started singing on an amazing piece. I want you to go home and listen to it. It's been written by an Italian named Pietro Mascagni. I see that almost everyone is writing it down. He wrote an opera called Cavalleria Rusticana, or in Sicily. There's an intermezzo there at the beginning of the opera that's so beautiful. When I say that I love this piece of music, it is not certain that it really lands with everyone here. But at least you could try it. The composer is Pietro Mascagni and the opera is called in Sicily, Cavalleria Rusticana. It's the intermezzot that starts the whole opera. It was a tip in the middle of the debate on culture for all.
i-AFVaVWV1hpkbNtzZZEHnvU	Madam President, I would like Freedom of expression plays a central role in a democratic society, but we see how it is restricted in many countries. Today, hundreds of writers, journalists, bloggers and cultural personalities around the world are in prison or are being prosecuted for publicly expressing their views. It has become particularly clear recently. During Russia's brutal invasion war in Ukraine, we have been able to follow how the free word has also been deliberately attacked. Journalists in Ukraine have been killed or injured. Those who are left to report are in an extremely vulnerable situation. In Russia, the noose has been tightened for the free and independent press. Hard censorship laws have been introduced, independent news sites, such as Nobel Prize Muratov Muratov's Gazeta Novaja, are blocked. Journalists who describe the situation as it actually is in Ukraine are at risk of reprisals or imprisonment. What we see is both an atrocious war in international law and an unacceptable abuse of the free word. At the same time, there is tireless resistance. Journalists in Ukraine are risking their lives to give the world direct reports on what is happening in the country. Democracy fighters in both Russia and Belarus find ways to spread the truth to the population. Solidarity vis-à-vis the Ukrainian people is extensive, including in terms of support for free speech. Actors such as the Swedish PEN, Reporters Without Borders and the Journalist Association are working hard to provide support in the emergency situation in Ukraine. Record-sized donations have led to the establishment of a crisis fund for vulnerable journalists both in Ukraine and in the rest of the world. Support is provided both to enable journalistic activities to continue and to provide legal assistance and compensation for subsistence in case of flight and support to organisations. The situation is alarming even in many other places. The need for havens for persecuted writers, journalists, artists and publishers is growing. Madam President, I would like There are currently 25 cities of refuge in Sweden in the form of municipalities or regions connected to the Icorn network, offering a place for threatened and persecuted journalists and writers. It is important for those who flee to have a context in which to operate, and it is also important that those who are protected should be able to continue to make their voice heard in relation to the countries of origin from which they have fled. Sweden is today the country with the highest number of cities of refuge connected to the network. But we cannot allow ourselves to be content. In the government, the Green Party has worked to strengthen the sanctuary system and through the action plan to defend the free word and Swedish democracy assistance has worked for freedom of expression in Sweden and internationally. However, more needs to be done here and now to support the Ukrainian people and the free word internationally. We note that the government does not have the necessary efforts in its spring change budget. Now we call on the government and the parliament to act quickly. When the freedom of expression and other fundamental human rights of cultural workers are threatened in the world around us, we have a responsibility to offer protection. The number of havens and havens for artists, writers and journalists in Sweden needs to be increased to better meet the needs that exist. The Green Party wants to add more money in the spring change budget to the sanctuary system. We also want to see a system that makes it possible to contribute in emergency situations to the rapid evacuation of journalists and other voice carriers. Sweden's evacuation of human rights defenders, journalists and others from Afghanistan are examples of such efforts, but a more orderly and permanent system should be investigated. The Green Party wants Sweden to continue its efforts to strengthen freedom of expression globally. Therefore, we want to increase financial support for organisations that support independent media and journalists, both in Sweden and internationally. The extensive private donations are good, but support from the public is important. I'm in favour of reservation number 12.
i-K59hUHuvYLmxcGqSw3dh6g	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that Anna Sibinska's initiative on safe havens sounds important, and I appreciate the commitment to the issues. I can also take this opportunity to thank the institutions, cultural creators and others in the culture who have committed themselves to the cause of Ukraine. The war is terrible from so many aspects. In addition to the support that Sweden gives to Ukraine's defence and the responsibility we take for those who flee, many Swedes also make great efforts to safeguard Ukraine's cultural heritage and help Ukrainian culture. I think there is every reason for us to feel proud of this and to consider what Anna Sibinska said about havens in our continued work. Culture and cultural heritage are almost always a clear target for aggressive aggressors. It is no coincidence that this is the case. Culture is important to society and to the individual, and whoever attacks it knows that. It is in the encounter with culture that we relax, enjoy, be horrified and develop. For the young person who is going out into life, it is often in the culture that you encounter a different way of being, a different way of life and a different way of thinking from what is normal in the immediate environment. Sometimes it's an American TV show, and sometimes it's an African novel that wakes up a whole different life and a completely different way of looking at life. Sometimes it is a film that arouses commitment or a piece of music, as Roland Utbolt just mentioned. It's about jealousy, isn't it? These are certainly things that many young people, but also older ones, consider when developing. In the encounter with culture people get new thoughts, new initiatives and new ways of looking at life that you wouldn't get if you didn't take part in what comes from outside but just thought like everyone else in their own absolute vicinity does. That's why culture is so important, and that's why it's so important that children meet culture early and face many different kinds of culture and many cultures. That is also why I am very concerned that culture is so clearly inherited. We have a clear socio-economic or socio-cultural heritage in Sweden, where parents' cultural consumption, interest and commitment are so clearly reflected in what children do and how children meet culture. For many, life surely feels like being placed in a secondary role in a novel that someone else has invented, in a story that has been created by someone completely different and that you cannot influence. For other children, life is like growing up in a library where it is full of books and where you can choose which person you want to play in all these books' stories. The injustice and the various possibilities that this creates are very worrying to me as a liberal. I want everyone to live a rich life and have the chance to choose between many different lives. That's why it's so important that children meet a lot of culture early. This is also why we are so committed to more people learning to read early. That's why we want you to read more at school. We also see the importance of there being good school libraries – I think it was the Left Party that also raised this – and dedicated and talented school librarians who can give students guidance into new reading experiences. This is also why a new approach to school culture is needed. We will make it easier for the school to receive advanced culture and performing arts. We have to realise that the school and the principals have so much to do and that the teachers have a focus on surviving even this day that we have to make it easy for them to accept culture. It should not be complicated to accept the performing arts, but it must be simple. That is why a new approach is also needed. Madam President, I would like In the last week, we have been shaken by riots and attacks on police in some cities. The trigger at the moment was that the Danish right-wing populist Paludan wanted to provoke, and it must be said that he succeeded. A difficult thing about freedom of expression is that you have to endure a lot. Not only can you point your finger at others and say that they can tolerate things, but you must also dare to accept the criticism that you can get. It is not good enough just to stand up for freedom of speech and artistic freedom when it comes to what you think, but the most important thing is to do it when you feel challenged and when others provoke you. We must be able to maintain arm's length distance from culture and artists even when it provokes ourselves. It's very difficult, and that's why freedom of speech is sometimes so difficult. But that is also why it is so important. And it is important whether it is religious provocation or menstruation. Both these provocations are important, and for both, freedom of expression and artistic freedom are important. It is not good enough to demand freedom to burn the Koran in Norrköping one day and say that you should close an exhibition about Nazis in Norrköping's second day. Freedom of expression, artistic freedom and cultural freedom both include these provocations. You have to be consistent in your defense. Madam President, I would like I am worried about artistic freedom in Sweden. As mentioned earlier, the Agency for Cultural Analysis has pointed to shortcomings and difficulties, not least in terms of the risk of adaptation, but also in terms of maintaining arm's length in regional and municipal structures. It is important to take this seriously. I expect this to be a fairly lively discussion when the state, regions and culture meet in talks about the collaborative model. However, I am perhaps even more concerned that the social climate we have is likely to cause many to remain silent, that many people do not dare to express themselves or that many people are opting out of a debate or an art expression that they would like to engage in themselves. In connection with this issue of artistic freedom, I would like to say that there is a rather clear conflict, Madam President, between the distance of arm length, artistic freedom and what the Swedish Democrats say in their desire for cultural policy objectives: that culture and art should contribute to national cohesion and strengthen national identity. There is an obvious and clear contradiction there. Artistic freedom also depends largely on the economic conditions. That is why an offensive cultural policy is needed both in the public and in the private sphere. After the pandemic, we need for quite a long time very generous and clear conditions for culture. Part of artistic freedom is also about having economic freedom to turn to various financiers. When one says no, a variety of financiers is part of the freedom to create. Madam President, I would like I would also like to highlight what Nina Lundström writes in a motion that is dealt with in this report. We are thinking repeatedly about the situation in Ukraine, but we are also reminded that there are other cases where cultural heritage has been embezzled and plundered and where it has not returned. One of the most extensive lootings in world history is the one that hit Jewish families during the Holocaust in countries around Europe. It was not just the beginning of the genocide but an integral part of it. Hundreds of thousands of works of art and art stolen by the Nazis before and during World War II are still missing. That part of history must be kept alive. Both there and in the case of Syria, Ukraine and other parts of the world, we must remember and pay attention to what is happening. Finally, Madam President, we must constantly remember that it is not by chance that warlords and authoritarian political leaders devote so much time to culture. There are few things that affect political development as much in the long term as what culture views and cultural policies you have in society. Cultural policy can improve and impair the conditions of the intellectual infrastructure that governs the political dialogue in a society in the long term. That is why cultural policy is so incredibly crucial and should take more place in the political debate. To be perfectly honest, Madam President, I do not believe that cultural policy determines the outcome of the autumn 2022 elections. However, I am quite convinced that it will be crucial for how Sweden develops until 2032.
i-LwczVvQdEy9bcTYxS1fSTM	Madam President, I would like Culture is an incredibly important part of our society. For us Social Democrats, access to culture and leisure is a measure of the well-being of a society. Culture for all is about making cultural experiences accessible and giving more people the chance to practice culture, but it is also about creating and training through culture about our history and our cultural context in order to create a better understanding of our time. It is against this background that the Red-Green Government has, during two terms of office, made great efforts to make culture accessible to all. Madam President, I would like Since 2014, we Social Democrats have prioritised the economic conditions of culture and addressed the need for equal access to culture. This term of office we have carried out the largest increase in state cultural expenditure since statistics began to be carried out on society's expenditure on culture in 1998. The Coronapandemia and its restrictions have meant that large parts of cultural life have been completely or partially closed down in the years 2020 to 2022. This has had a very negative impact on the economic and social conditions of culture in terms of loss of revenue, reduced turnover and reduced employment in the labour market. It has therefore been of great importance for the government to be able to quickly introduce financial support measures that the contributing authorities have been able to allocate in a short time, despite large amounts of applications. The Swedish National Audit Office's analysis of crisis support confirms that the design and distribution has been effective and that the Government and the authorities have acted quickly, which has been crucial to avoiding bankruptcies and the closure of cultural activities. Crisis support has amounted to over SEK 7 billion. Madam President, I would like As regards the economic conditions for culture, there are still some important lessons to be learned. It is a question of making visible the structural problems of the policy area, irrespective of the acute crisis caused by the pandemic. Both the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis and the Restarting Investigation point to the erosion of cultural institutions' funding over time, the social conditions for art and culture creators and the interaction model's handshake between the state and the regions. Madam President, I would like This is the last debate this parliamentary term on the overall approach to cultural policy. I would therefore like to highlight some of the reforms that we have introduced in a government position in order to promote precisely equal access to culture. We Social Democrats have helped to introduce free admission into all state museums. We have introduced a development grant for the cultural school of 200 million annually that the municipalities can apply for in order to develop local activities. We have carried out a major effort to strengthen public libraries through the reform Strengthened libraries, in order to promote local efforts. We have expanded our efforts to promote reading through support for book purchase, a reading council and the largest ever capacity development effort for teachers and school librarians to increase literacy. We have increased support for the reform Creative School, so that more children and young people around our country can benefit from high-quality culture and performing arts within the framework of the school. We have prioritised safer employments for art and cultural creators through investments in center formations and performing arts alliances. Most recently, we have introduced a film production incentive of 100 million annually to promote Swedish film production in Sweden. For this there is a great deal of interest around the world. You can ask Lars Mejern Larsson, who has recently been to India and has been able to learn from those experiences. We digitise the cultural heritage, strengthen object care in Kiruna, increase the National Archives administrative grant and establish Sweden's Museum of the Holocaust. Yes, you will hear: there have been many reforms in this area. At the moment, there is also a historically large re-launch budget of 940 million that will be for free actors as well as art and culture creators in performing arts, music, image and form as well as film to restart operations. The application processes are under way. Madam President, I would like In these words, I would like to call for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-8B7RN9WkHLZwedPVRmY2pW	Madam President, I would like Today we have too little punishment when it comes to illegal driving and drunk driving offences. Anyone who repeatedly commits these crimes today faces far too little punishment. It is deeply provocative that the repeater shows a sense of irresponsibility and indifference to other people's lives so easily escapes and can continue his behavior. Strengthening legislation is ultimately about protecting people's lives. Madam President, I would like For this reason, an investigator was commissioned by the Government to investigate and evaluate, among other things, the need for stronger criminal protection against repeated traffic crime and to consider in particular whether a new, unified criminal offence should be included in the Traffic Crimes Act. The assignment was presented on 19 November 2019. The investigation's proposal would mean that the law book would have a new crime called serious traffic crime that targets the repeater and particularly ruthlessly commits certain traffic offences. The sentence is proposed to be imprisonment for a minimum of six months and a maximum of five years. Madam President, I would like This at first sounds brilliant. Higher penalties for repeated traffic crime are exactly what we all want. However, the proposal received sharp criticism from various consultation bodies. This criticism led to a different formulation of the Government's legislative referral from that of the investigation. It is an important part of Swedish democracy that the legislative proposals we are drafting have been put under the influence of experts and organisations outside the party political sphere to just catch up with objections such as in this case. But what is the problem with the investigation's proposal? Well, the construction requires that it be judged jointly for the combined crime. The investigation has been inspired by the legislation that exists for violations of peace, where several less serious crimes constitute a far more serious one. But comparing repeated violence and violations in a close relationship with traffic offences is like comparing apples and pears because abuse in a close relationship is often discovered and reported at a time when the violations have already gone on over time. If a drunk driver is stopped, hopefully he will be prosecuted for his crime. If, after a final conviction, he is guilty of a new crime, it will again be a relatively mild penalty for an isolated incident with such a construction as the investigation proposes. In order to apply the draft law of the investigation and have the desired effect, the prosecutor must wait for further offences, if they come at all, in order to be able to judge at a trial according to the more serious offence. This is not how the judiciary works in practice. It is only when several serious traffic offences are detected so closely that the judicial system has not been able to pass judgment on them that it would have the desired effect. Madam President, I would like Instead, what the government is proposing is a law in which repeated traffic offences for which it has been specifically convicted in previous judgments should be able to lead to a higher penalty. This is, in practice, a much tougher path than the one proposed by the investigation. In the draft legislative resolution, the Government proposes to introduce a new qualification basis in the penalty for heavy drink-driving, which means that when assessing whether the offence is serious, special consideration should be given to whether the driver has previously been guilty of drink-driving or heavy drink-driving. The criminal code ‘serious illegal driving' is introduced at the same time as providing for specific grounds of qualification for the offence, which means that when assessing whether the offence is serious, special consideration must be given to whether the driver has previously had a driving licence that has been revoked, the driver has previously been guilty of unlawful driving or serious illegal driving or the offence has otherwise been of a serious nature. Madam President, I would like The government also proposes that the maximum sentence for grossly illegal driving and driving under the influence of a drink be increased from six months' imprisonment to one year's imprisonment and that the maximum sentence for aggravated driving be increased from two years' imprisonment to three years' imprisonment. The legislative amendments are proposed to enter into force on 1 January 2023. The Government has announced that a proposal to tighten penalties for illegal driving and drunk driving offences will be submitted to the Riksdag in September. Madam President, I would like With regard to post-suppression, I would just like to say that it is excellent that we are now taking a position. If you have an obligation today to stay in the event of a traffic accident, you can reasonably also have an obligation not to lower a bottle of wine, or rather to claim that you have done so, in order to avoid taking responsibility for your crime, i.e. drink driving. With this, I would like to endorse reservation 1.
i-TTnqfLN72vGYqXkgP7hrUW	Madam President, I would like Today, we are going to decide on an announcement on increased penalties for serious traffic offences. On this issue, the Swedish Democrats and the former alliance parties agree that the penalties should be tightened. The proposal is a step in the right direction, but unfortunately not enough, not least from a victim's perspective. Driving a motor vehicle is risky. The possibility of obtaining the right to drive such a vehicle in Sweden means a longer process that includes knowledge of traffic rules but also good knowledge of driving your vehicle before you finally get your driving licence. Driving a motor vehicle with alcohol in the body is even more dangerous. This is generally accepted among both persons with a driving licence and those without a driving licence. Everyone knows the risks. The Swedish Democrats are therefore of the opinion that the government should investigate how drunk driving leading to the death of others should be considered more serious than now. The starting point should be that such an act should correspond to manslaughter rather than to the death of another person, thus entailing a clear penalty. Compared to the cause of death, intention or indifference is required to the fact that the act could lead to a person's death in order for a person to be convicted of manslaughter. If a person gets behind the wheel and in front of his car drunk, the person is also completely indifferent to the fact that the procedure can lead to the death of other people. We mean that we are opening the way for stricter legislation. In June 2019, a 22-year-old driver was sentenced for causing death, gross negligence in traffic and aggravated driving. The man drove home from a party and drove off the road at high speed. In the accident, his fellow passenger died. The sentence went to prison for a year and a half. In September 2020, a man in his 30s was convicted of causing death, illegal driving and aggravated driving. The man's companion in the car died. The driver then had an alcoholic strength of 1.75 per mille. The sentence went to prison for two years. In March 2021, a man in his 50s was sentenced on six counts, including two cases of gross causes of death and gross negligence in traffic after driving a car at 135 kilometres per hour on a 70-way with a total of 2.19 per mille alcohol in his blood. The man came over on the wrong side of the road and hit the front with another car. The passenger in the man's car died in the accident but also a five-year-old girl in the oncoming car. The sentence was jailed for two years and nine months for having killed two people about their lives. Madam President, I would like I think this is directly shameful. And it goes completely beyond my understanding that one can be against punishment in this area. We can compare these sanctions with sanctions for hunting offences, for example. The maximum sentence in Sweden for killing a wolf is four years' imprisonment, while the average sentence for a person convicted of serious drunk driving and causing another person's death today is only two years. Of course, a longer sentence can never bring back a loved one's mother, father, son, or daughter who has become the victim of a drunk driver. But today's scale of punishment for someone who sits behind the wheel intoxicated and kills another human being is absurd. A number of penalties are now being proposed. That is good, but it does not reach all the way in the goal of what is both reasonable and desirable. That is why the Swedish Democrats are pushing for drunk drivers to be able to be convicted of manslaughter rather than causing the death of others. In Sweden, the scale of punishment for manslaughter is between six and ten years in prison. It, combined with the penalties for drunk driving, illegal driving and reckless driving, could ensure that the penalties for drunk drivers who kill another person would be more reasonable. As has been said, today's proposals on penalties are moving in the right direction, but they are, after all, only changing the margin. We want to see proper penalties. A person who has sat behind the wheel drunk and killed another person should not be allowed to come out again after just a couple of years. I will therefore call for the approval of Amendment No 2 by the Swedish Democrats on drunk driving and manslaughter.
i-82A9RoeVFPa9oT4ZUYSXj6	Madam President, I would like Although Sweden has the lowest percentage of road deaths in relation to the population in the EU, 192 people were killed on Swedish roads last year. In about a quarter of the cases, the driver who caused the accident was affected by alcohol or drugs. In addition, there are cases where the driver does not have a driving licence or behaves recklessly in traffic by, for example, greatly exceeding speed limits or carrying out carelessly overtakings. In the case of motorcycle accidents, almost a third of those who have died do not have a driving licence for the vehicle. There is therefore a strong link between traffic offences and road fatalities. However, despite the fact that people who drive affected or without a driving licence are responsible for such a large proportion of road deaths, the penalties for these offences are mild. It is not uncommon that people who have been stopped intoxicated or without a driving licence are soon behind the wheel again. Moreover, the current scale of penalties means that it is not possible to arrest or arrest suspects. Against this background, the Riksdag already issued an announcement to the Government in 2017 about tightening up the scales of penalties for drunk driving, heavy drink driving and gross illegal driving. Without having taken a position in detail on all the proposals, we Moderates welcome the fact that the draft legislative referral referred to in December last year proposes a number of criminal penalties in relation to illegal driving and driving offences. However, it is remarkable that it should take five years from the date of the Riksdag's announcement to the government's return with a bill. With regard to the issue of a new penal provision on serious traffic crime, we believe that the government should proceed with the proposal in the memo, despite the fact that it has met with some criticism from referral bodies. The criticism is not uniform, and we, like the Prosecution Authority, consider that a new penalty would provide additional opportunities to intervene against the most notorious recidivists. The committee also proposes that the Riksdag address an announcement to the Government. Nor do we see that a new penalty provision would be in opposition to the introduction of a new penalty for repeated crime. In view of the high risks posed by alcohol in traffic, it is important that drivers found intoxicated in the event of accidents can be prosecuted. However, there are cases where the driver can walk free after claiming that he has been drinking after the accident, not before. When a drunk person escapes punishment, the risk of the same person causing more accidents increases. Ultimately, it poses a risk to other people's lives. The Swedish Parliament has previously asked for a ban on so-called drinking. But the government has chosen not to proceed with such a proposal. The committee therefore proposes once again that the Riksdag address an announcement to the Government to return to the Riksdag with a proposal to ban post-suppression. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to support the proposal in the report.
i-F96UnrUAo8Mn9VW1jAfaEp	Madam President, I would like It is actually Johan Hedin, my colleague in the Center Party, who is going to take this debate. However, with regard to this particular report, my colleague Johan Hedin and I have a common commitment. I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report, which is currently being dealt with, JuU10, to be approved. The commitment extends, in addition to the graphic descriptions given here, to a very specific case in Småland during early summer 2017. It was a traffic event that corresponds to what a lot of people have described. A heavily affected car driver, in addition to his own injury, also caused two deaths in a meeting — a great tragedy, a family tragedy, a district tragedy. Risk behaviour was well known in the area. The offender, as I choose to call it, Madam President, was in addition to the incident known for 14 cases of illegal driving – thus missing a driving licence – 9 cases of drug offences, 4 cases of drunk driving, etc. The police had been guarding the person for a long time but had not caused any criminal action. It was perceived as unacceptable. I am afraid that this is not a specific case but a case among many. It's tragic from all angles. But it becomes incomprehensible to a law - conscious public who knows the frequent use and abuse. You lived in fear. This led Johan Hedin and I to write a motion in 2017. We did not mention the specific case, but the background to it is that the repeater is guilty of illegal driving is often a danger to others. It must be noted with much greater force by society when, at some point, such a crime is committed without the intention of making any change – both from the perspective of society and from the point of view of the perpetrators of crime. We argued that, in the event of repeated crimes, the scale of penalties needed to be reviewed and that society as a law enforcement authority needed to have more instruments than it was then. It resulted in two concrete statements on tightening penalties for repeated illegal driving, as well as stricter penalties for repeated drink driving and demands for an announcement. Madam President, I would like That is why, as the representative of the Center Party in this debate, I am really only very happy that Parliament is now taking a step in the direction that Johan Hedin and I argued for. I know that many more have argued for it, and now a majority in the Committee on Justice has joined in. Thank you for that! Today, there is a proposal for an announcement to the government to move forward in the legislative work that imposes a penalty for drunk driving and serious illegal driving and tightened up criminal measures against repeated traffic crime. In addition, the Swedish parliament urges the government to urgently return with a bill in accordance with the previously mentioned memorandum's direction that means that in the event of repeated traffic crime one should be able to meet with a stronger reaction than hitherto. This is good, and it is a step in the right direction. I would really just like to express my thanks to the majority of the Swedish Parliament, which is behind the motion that Johan Hedin and I wrote five years ago, and to the public who, with great ununderstandable views, saw recurring crimes, the danger of life both for the person responsible for the crimes and, above all, for the general public. Now we are taking a step in a direction that means that law enforcement agencies, ranging from the police to the prosecution system, and the care of the individual are now moving in the right direction.
i-UA5brnuMTZYNjrzmoEX1fz	Madam President, I would like Today's debate is about a tightening up of penalties for serious traffic offences. We have debated this in the past and also addressed announcements, but it is only now that we see activity on the part of the government. A bill is promised, and it will come in the autumn of 2022. The legislative amendments are proposed to enter into force on 1 January 2023. We all agree that drunk drivers do not belong in traffic. It is indeed time to tighten the penalties for those who do not behave. Already during my first interpellation debate here in the Riksdag after I took office, I asked Morgan Johansson for higher penalties for repeated traffic crime in February 2019. In the debate, I mentioned one of the heartbreaking examples of what might happen in traffic today. On November 23, 2017, a 14-year-old girl was driven to death by a man in Central Sweden. The man didn't call the police after the accident. He didn't stop. He didn't see if the girl survived or if he could help her. Instead, he ran away from the scene. Two months before this happened, he had promised the court that he would straighten out his life. That's when he was charged with assault, but he didn't have to go to jail. Instead, the sentence became probation. But it wasn't the first time he was in court. The man was known as an addict of both drugs and alcohol. He was convicted of drunk driving, hit-and-run and reckless driving. He had no driver's license but still owned 32 cars; he served as a goaltender. Yet, he was given probation. A 14-year-old girl on her way home was hit by a car and had to stop her life way too soon. The family wonders how this could happen. In the interpellation debate, Morgan Johansson said that he shared the frustration and also wanted to see higher penalties and referred, at the beginning of 2019, to an investigation about penalty increases that would come later in the year. Unfortunately, however, we can now see that, as in many other areas, a legislative proposal has not been adopted. This seems to be happening now, but during the time when we have had to wait for the bill, further accidents have taken place with innocent victims as a result. The government's meekness in the matter creates a frozen station and is, in any case, for me an example of Sweden's need for a new government. Madam President, I would like During 2021 we were reminded of what it might look like. A radio documentary, Death on the Road, provided further examples of how individuals commit traffic crimes without society being able to prevent it. Often there is a terrible accident. One case was particularly highlighted where two people were killed and a family and a whole area was left in great sorrow. For us Christian Democrats, it has long been obvious that penalties must be increased to stop these irresponsible drivers. Now the government has finally delivered a step along the way through a legislative referral. But unfortunately, you can't reach it all the way. Madam President, I would like According to NTF, about 14,000 people drive drunk every day. It's something to think about when we get in the car with loved ones to go somewhere. Many of those who drive drunk do so habitually and often commit other traffic offences such as illegal driving and reckless driving. The penalty for a drunk driver has so far been very low. The average sentence for drunk driving, heavy drink driving, illegal driving and drunk driving under the influence of drugs has often been only one month in prison. This is unreasonable, not least given that many of these crimes are committed together and by the same perpetrators. The most common is still that prisons are not sentenced, but the punishment you receive is fines, conditional sentences or probation. The Christian Democrats, together with many others, have long argued for society to act more clearly. Anyone who repeatedly drives drunk should not get away with a fine. Since autumn 2019 – for two and a half years – an investigation has been on the government table, referred and ready for legislation, without anything happening. As long as we Christian Democrats in Parliament have been asking the responsible Minister Morgan Johansson repeated written questions, who have answered evasively every time. Nothing's happened. The legislative changes would have taken effect if the investigation had taken effect already on 1 January 2021. We could no longer accept the government's passivity. That is why we Christian Democrats initiated a committee initiative at the end of 2021 to get the process of tightening up legislation going. And it seems that the committee initiative has produced results. Just a few days later, the government announced a legislative referral with stricter legislation. After several years of pressure from the Christian Democrats, among others, it is welcome. Madam President, I would like The government's legislative proposals to some extent meet what we Christian Democrats have asked for in order to counter these traffic offences by raising the scale of penalties. On the other hand, the government has refrained from proceeding with the investigation's proposal to introduce a penal provision on serious traffic crime. Although the proposal has met with criticism, we Christian Democrats believe that the benefits of the proposal outweigh the benefits. Amongst other things, repeated traffic crime in some cases would be confronted with a stronger response than that of the previous regime. For this reason, a majority in the committee proposes an announcement to the government to return promptly with a legislative proposal in accordance with the memo's proposal. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats have also for a long time been pushing the issue of a ban on drinking after drinking, which means that drinking alcohol is not allowed for the first six hours after a traffic accident. The government has chosen to follow the line of investigation, i.e. that it is not a crime in itself. Together with many others, we are critical of the government's conclusion and believe that people who put their fellow road users at risk should be stopped and not escape because of a loophole in the law. We therefore believe that a ban on drinking should be introduced. It is gratifying that a majority in the committee shares this assessment and proposes an announcement to the government in this area too. The Christian Democrats support the announcements that are being proposed, because it is important to tighten the penalties for repeated traffic offences in order to prevent innocent people from suffering as people continue their dangerous traffic crime. Drunk drivers don't belong in traffic. It really is time we tighten up the penalties for those who are not doing well.
i-4DATUU323QK4bWGED4mKUQ	Madam President, I would like Every year 50 to 70 people die for nothing. The reason is affected drivers who get behind the steering wheel. No one should have to experience the immense sorrow and loss of a loved one or a close friend. It is a matter of course for most people not to drink alcohol or use other drugs and then get behind the wheel. Nevertheless, the Swedish Transport Administration's calculations show that there are approximately 15 000 onyktra car trips per day in Sweden. It is about drivers who are so affected that they would be convicted of drunk driving if they were discovered. It is also frightening to compare the Finnish Transport Safety Agency's estimates of 15 000 affected motorists per day to the fact that in 2020 only 25 600 offences related to drug-driving and drunk driving were reported. For 2021 the figure is even lower; then 23 000 cases were reported. Since March 2020, the police have significantly reduced general sobriety controls, taking into account the risk of infection in breath tests. The difference in the number of breath samples is large, from 1.2 million before the pandemic to 384 000 in 2020. However, the number of breath samples has decreased significantly since well before the pandemic – in the last ten years. In 2011, 2.7 million breath samples were carried out. Since steering wheel and drug steering are a crime of discovery, the reduction in breath samples obviously has consequences. We know that alcohol and drugs are one of the most important causes of road accidents and that accidents often have severe consequences. One in four road fatalities is related to alcohol or drugs. Combating drink-driving, drug-driving and similar crimes is not just about law enforcement – it is above all about saving lives in traffic. Moreover, despite the fact that such large human values are at stake, legislation today is not effective in removing alcohol and drug-affected drivers from our roads. One problem is that the scale of penalties does not provide sufficient means of intervention. The scale of penalties for aggravated drunk driving extends to prison for up to two years. On the other hand, for drunk driving of the normal level, the penalty scale begins with fines, and the highest possible penalty is prison for six months even in the case of relapse offences. This means that the rules on detention cannot be applied because detention requires one year's imprisonment to be included in the penalty scale. A drug addict who is not drunk can therefore be arrested time and again for drunk driving without risking detention pending trial. Can't you stop recidivists by taking their driver's license? Well, drunk driving almost always results in the driver's license being revoked. Anyone who continues to drive after the driver's license has been withdrawn is guilty of the offence of illegal driving. However, this crime also has a scale of punishment which, even in the case of serious crimes, does not exceed six months in prison. Here again, arrest is not possible, and anyone who puts illegal driving in systems cannot be lifted. This is totally unacceptable. Several parties have pushed for a change in legislation. With approval of a motion from the Liberals, among other things, the Riksdag issued an announcement in April 2018 on a review of legislation on drink driving and illegal driving. Since then, an investigation has produced proposals for increased maximum penalties for both heavy driving, drunk driving and heavy drink driving. Similarly, the investigator proposes a new penalty for serious traffic crime. However, the legislative referral prepared by the Government, which is expected to become a proposal later this year, does not include all the elements of the investigation's proposal. Here, in the majority of committees, we have a different view. The various parts of the investigation complement each other in a comprehensive way. I welcome the fact that there is also a clear committee majority in favour of a stricter legislation against so-called aftersunning, i.e. that a drunk person claims after a road accident that he has drunk alcohol after the accident and not before. You have to imagine that the driver always rides around with a pocketplot in the glove compartment to calm his nerves. For many years, the Liberals have been working towards legislation against post-sunning, which already exists in Norway, among others. The police there believe that the legislation has an effect. It shall not be possible to avoid liability for drink-driving offences on the pretext of this kind. Stricter legislation is important, but clearly the big problem is that the police do not have the resources to focus on steering and drug driving, despite the terrible consequences for the innocent children and adults who each week fall victim to drivers who do not realize the seriousness of driving under the influence. With alcohol or other drugs in your body, you're a deadly driver. In another area, it is therefore clear that in today's Sweden it is largely criminal to commit crimes – in this case to drive under the influence. Madam President, I would like I support the proposal as a whole. But again I lack the power of action on the part of the government, and in the meantime more innocent people will fall victim to affected drivers.
