i-2FWzBDrk3hh5zb9o5zxBsn	Madam President, I would like Ellen Juntti has asked me what measures I have taken or intend to take against juvenile robbers to put in place the right measures against the right people and in the right place. She's also wondering if I'm prepared to work for all robbery with humiliation to be punished with at least five years in prison. Robbery is a very serious crime that can cause fear and anxiety to the victim long after the crime. The fact that young people are being robbed is a failure for society. It is also a failure that young people become robbers. The sharp increase in the number of reported offences between 2015 and 2019 is unacceptable. I have said this in answers to previous parliamentary questions and interpellations, but it can be repeated. At the same time, it becomes misleading that they only focus on these years. Similar trends with rapid increases have occurred during the 90s and at the end of the 00s. Now – as at that time – the number of reported crimes is falling sharply after the rapid upturn. Between 2019 and 2021, the number of reported youth robberies has decreased by as much as 35 per cent. What these variations depend on is not entirely certain. It is, however, that the work of the judiciary in prosecuting the guilty persons means that they cannot continue to commit crimes. In recent years, the number of young people prosecuted for robbery has increased sharply, and this may explain a decrease in the number of robberies. In 2022, the decline in the number of robberies has also continued. The number of cases notified up to March this year has not been so low since 2017. The Police Authority continues to work actively against juvenile robberies, including through increased police presence in places and times where such crimes are often committed. At the same time, the reshaping of the historic effort to increase the number of police officers across the country is continuing. The criminal law framework is also important. In the past, we have tightened the minimum sentence for aggravated robbery to prison for five years, and now the Gangal Crimes Investigation is proposing an increase in the minimum penalty for normal rate robbery. In the case of degrading elements, it can be concluded that they can already be taken into account under existing regulations when assessing the designation of a robbery offence and the length of the penalty. The government has also recently decided on a bill with proposals for stricter penalties for knife crimes. A study from Brå shows that in cases where weapons have been used in juvenile robbery, knife is by far the most common weapon. It is also important that we have credible sanctions for young offenders, and the government has tightened the regulation in several respects. It is about the introduction of the penalty for youth surveillance, which can be used for example in more serious violent crimes and robberies. It is also a question of abolishing the penalty for young adults in the event of serious crime, for example in the case of robbery and aggravated assault. The causes of crime must also be combated. Within the framework of the 34-point programme, the Government proposes several initiatives on prevention, including giving municipalities a statutory responsibility to work crime prevention. The Government has also ensured that municipalities are subsidised in 2022 when they need to place young people under LVU in the Special Youth Home of the National Board of Institutional Affairs in order to prevent continued crime and relapse. In conclusion, the government has therefore taken a large number of measures aimed at young people who have committed crimes or who are at risk of being involved in crime. This may explain the sharp decline in the number of juvenile robberies in recent years.
i-TGUZf5pzTdybckac5H7uoE	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister of Justice for his answer. Nevertheless, I must start by mentioning the historic day yesterday when Magdalena Andersson acknowledged that the Social Democrats have failed completely in their main task, that the citizens of the country should feel safe. I also did not hear that she blamed the Alliance, as I am sure I will hear today because Morgan Johansson usually does. This is a bit far-fetched given that Morgan Johansson has been Minister of Justice for eight years. It is therefore time to take responsibility. I shall then turn to the report of the Crime Prevention Council on juvenile robbery. The report shows a terrible development between 2015 and 2019. At that time, the number of reported juvenile robberies doubled to nearly 8,000. In addition, it must be added that the number of darkness is great. It is estimated that 20 to 50 percent of all robberies are not reported to the police. Most suspects are between 15 and 17 years old. Many robberies are brutal with violence and humiliation. Victims get stabbed, kicked when they're on the ground, urinated in their mouths-- you know, it's not wise-- forced to kiss the robber's shoes or crawl like a pig or get sexually molested. Sometimes the humiliations are filmed and spread on social media to further demean the victim. The report shows that of the approximately 3,200 robbers covered, 66 per cent have immigrant backgrounds, and 77 per cent of robbers have Swedish backgrounds. The motives are money, status, excitement or an underlying conflict. But there is also a further desire to harm, offend, and intimidate the robbery victim. The victims of robbers feel a great deal of anxiety that affects them their whole lives. They have difficulty sleeping, they dare not go out, some want to move and many find it difficult to pass school. This can affect them for the rest of their lives. Youth robberies are strategic crimes that indicate continued criminal careers, and therefore it is very important to fight them at an early stage. We Moderates believe that all robberies with demeanors should be judged as gross and lead to at least five years in prison. I put a written question to the Minister of Justice in October. In his reply, he says that the purpose of the current report is to help decision-makers and local crime prevention actors to put in place the right measures against the right people and in the right place. My question in this interpellation was what measures the Minister has taken or intends to take to put in place the right measures. What I could tell from the answer, no action has been taken on the youth robbery following the presentation of the report. I also asked if the Minister of Justice would be prepared to work towards punishing all robbery with humiliation with at least five years in prison. The answer was no, because there is already room. But that is not what I asked, but I asked if they should be considered serious crimes. My question to Johansson today is: Why does he really want to reduce these robberies? He often says they have decreased. Maybe they have, given that we have had a pandemic so that people have barely been able to move around the city for two years. But the fact remains that these robberies have increased very much since 2015. And I think that's reducing that attitude. Why has he not taken any action since the report was presented?
i-Ab6ZVWwsSUFFRis7GYFSNU	Madam President, I would like I guess I'll just have to say I'm a little surprised. I would have understood this if we had had this debate three years ago. But we didn't. We have it today. And since 2019, the number of youth robberies has not decreased a little but decreased sharply – by 35 percent between 2019 and 2021. Then Ellen Juntti says it has to do with the propensity to register. No, it doesn't. In fact, the proportion of those who report that they have been exposed to this has also decreased. The number of juvenile robberies reported has thus decreased. Then Ellen Juntti says it's because of the pandemic. But the number continues to decline in 2022. The first three months of 2022 have continued to decrease the number of youth robberies, and now we have the lowest number of youth robberies since 2017 – in five years. This seems to me that Ellen Juntti is not prepared to take on board at all. She should be happy about it. At least I'm happy about it. There are fewer young people who are robbed and fewer who commit robbery. What is the reason for this? In fact, I think it is a question of the fact that police action against these crimes has been greatly strengthened. You've just taken the robbers. In fact, I don't need to go further than my own hometown of Lund, where we had problems with robbery a few years ago. Then the police took some of these robbers, and they had an immediate effect. That is how it is: there are a small number of individuals who commit very many crimes, and if you take them, you also have a clear effect. This is also seen in the national statistics: The number of 15 to 17-year-olds convicted for robbery has almost doubled between 2017 and 2020. So we take far more young people who commit these crimes than we did five years ago. It's simply a fact, but it's a fact Ellen Juntti doesn't seem to want to take on board at all. I think that's a shame. We have worked on criminal law and tightened the penalties for aggravated robbery, which is now five years in prison. Demeanor robbery can also be included there – it can be considered as aggravated robbery. By the way, robbery as a proportion of robbery has also decreased in recent years. We currently have a proposal at Parliament's table to tighten the penalties for knife crimes, i.e. violations of the Knife Act. It is also important from a robbery perspective because many robberies are actually committed with a knife. We also have a new sanction called youth surveillance. In addition to the fact that youths who commit these crimes can be sentenced to serious penalties, there is now also the possibility of keeping them at home on weekends — a home arrest on weekends. The person is then monitored with a anklet. We have removed the penalty for 18 to 20-year-olds when it comes to serious crimes. This meant that the penalty for robbery for an 18-year-old in one battle doubled. We did that on 1 January. We've got the gang crime investigation in progress, investigating increased arrests for robbery. There are proposals to lower the time limit for detention, i.e. when someone is to be detained pending trial, to 18 months. At the same time, the proposal is to tighten the minimum penalty for robbery to 18 months, which means that anyone suspected of robbery will be detained pending trial. It is also a very big change that we are working on and will proceed with. A large number of measures have therefore been taken and a large number of measures will continue to be taken. But it is not just about the penalties here; it is also about trying to break the new recruitment to these criminal gangs. That is where we differ, because the Moderates have no policy whatsoever to prevent crime.
i-AVFs99pmMS2BgFy5iF6For	Madam President, I would like Of course, I'm happy for all the signs that the robberies are decreasing and for all the robberies that aren't committed – of course that's the case. But I'm still concerned. Morgan Johansson asks why we did not have this debate three years ago. That's because this debate is about the Swedish National Audit Office's report, which came in December last year. That's what my interpellation is based on. The report shows that between 20% and 50% of juvenile robberies are not reported at all, and the worst is that many of the crimes remain unsolved. As I said before, a lot of young people get incredibly bad after being robbed, especially when there has been humiliation. There is a need to investigate this further, and next week we will decide on the motion report on young offenders. There we will get through a new announcement of a larger and broader investigation into these youth robberies. The investigation shall examine the nature of the crime, the perpetrators of the crime, the victims and the consequences of the crime for the victims. The occurrence and causes of degrading treatment shall also be reviewed and analysed in this report. The investigation should serve as a basis for changes in legislation as well as information and other measures to prevent future crimes. Effective measures that strengthen the security of young people who are worried about going to school or going out to town are very important because of the risk of being robbed. For example, my sons felt uncomfortable going into town, and they felt compelled to be many youths together because they were worried about being robbed. The situation requires more measures in order for everyone to be safe. The announcement includes that all muggings with demeanors should be assessed as gross and lead to a minimum of five years in prison. Morgan Johansson says that there are opportunities today to judge this as gross – yes, there are opportunities, but it does not say that it should be judged that way. That's what we're after. My question to Morgan Johansson is: If the accident is there and Morgan Johansson is allowed to continue as Minister of Justice – even though he has actually failed in his mission for eight years, which became clear at the press conference yesterday – does he intend to take the youth robbery seriously? Is he going to start without delay with the broader investigation that this announcement is about? I really do think that there is a need for a broader investigation, particularly as regards humiliation. There are studies from Scotland, for example, which show that robbery is primarily an expression of masculinity and group membership and that the aim is to give respect among other young people. There is also a study done in Gothenburg suburbs where youth robberies are linked to a feeling of revenge and power. Thus, the robbery becomes a symbolic act with the aim of showing strength and superiority. This needs to be investigated.
i-GfNJkGzqUaHKsJmvkjssPC	Madam President, I would like I don't think it was a report from the National Audit Office but a report from Brå.
i-VBo8kYtj58hxy1snUZvuRs	It may be less important – the actual basis still extends until 2019, which is what we are talking about here. The figures are old, and what I am saying is that there have been strong developments in recent years. Nevertheless, I think Ellen Juntti should take it upon herself that the number of juvenile robberies has decreased by 35% in recent years – 35%! The number of young people prosecuted for these crimes has almost doubled since 2017. It continues into 2022; the number of reported robberies continues to decline and is now the lowest in five years. Ellen Juntti then takes up the clearance rate, but it has actually also increased in recent years. I believe that this is simply linked to the fact that we have increased the police efforts directed at these particular groups. It doesn't have to be so terrible many individuals who commit these crimes – even the Brå report shows that there are a small number of individuals who commit very many crimes, and if you take those individuals you have an effect on the number of reported crimes. Ellen Juntti can therefore be absolutely sure that I take this very seriously. It also shows everything we have done: we have tightened the penalties for the serious robberies. We have made proposals to Parliament to tighten the penalties for knife crimes, introduce the new penalty for youth surveillance and remove the penalty for young people when they commit, among other things, robbery. So, for an 18-year-old robber, we're talking about doubling the penalty you can be sentenced to. As has been said, there are also increased arrests for robberies, and this will have an immediate effect. When we tightened the punishment for the serious weapons crimes, it turned out that it had an immediate effect before the sentence was lifted, the police brought in a person, interrogated him and then released him again after just a few hours, even though the person had a weapon on him. Then we sharpened the punishment for the serious gun crime, and if you leave home with a weapon you don't have the right to have, the risk is that you won't be back home in two years. You're being detained pending trial. The exact same effect will be the presumption of robbery, which is the proposal in the Gang Crimes Investigation. When you lower the limit on the presumption of detention to 18 months and raise the minimum penalty for robbery to 18 months, you get exactly that effect. In the future, therefore, a suspected robber will not be released into the street again after a few hours, but will be put in custody pending trial and thus removed from further criminal activity. Why do we want to do this? This is partly because of what the Brå report points out, i.e. that this type of robbery is often the type of crime that leads to even worse crime. People are increasingly drawn into gang crime, and this development must be broken in time. It is completely wrong, I say, that we have done nothing or do nothing. On the contrary, we have all these activities, the punitive measures and the police efforts. The measures we have taken have actually had an effect. Again, the number of juvenile robberies has decreased by 35 percent in recent years. I still think Ellen Juntti should be happy about that.
i-CQknv8J5vMDJiK77vXybKe	Madam President, I would like Yes, Morgan Johansson, I said wrong. I said the National Audit Office, but it's the Crime Prevention Council-- that's right. Morgan Johansson often says that the Moderates have no crime prevention proposals. He said that again today. He's wrong, of course. We have quite a few good proposals, and I can mention two. We want to set up an investigation into crime prevention and the content of penalties for young criminals. We would like to commission an investigator to take a concerted approach to young criminals based on experience from other countries, among other things, with a view to proposing appropriate crime prevention measures and the content of penalties adapted to young criminals. This will come up for decision next week, and then the Social Democrats will vote no. I find that very strange, because crime prevention measures are very good. It would be very good if you aimed at this group. The second proposal I would like to mention is the establishment of a national centre of knowledge with a special mission in the field of crime prevention, simply for better prevention. This centre of knowledge is intended to support municipalities in the first instance. In April 2021, the Riksdag issued an announcement to the Government to establish such a centre of knowledge. It's been a year since the announcement. I wonder if Morgan Johansson has taken any steps to set up a national centre of knowledge on crime prevention. If not, why not? And is he about to start? At the same time, I would like to thank you for the debate.
i-Tk2k1oHZnL97yJzzcviNEe	Madam President, I would like But, my God, we already have such a centre of knowledge! It's called the Crime Prevention Council, and we've had it since the '70s. I really don't understand what you're looking for here. The Crime Prevention Council has a mission to support municipalities in their crime prevention work. This has been the case for years; for decades it has been the case. This is due to the fact that when you have nothing else to offer, you are trying to find a symbol or an institution to set up, so that you at least have something to include in the debate. But this is just breaking open doors. The problem with Moderate policy on recruitment is that there is nothing. Every time the questions about, for example, strengthening funds for the affected areas and investing in school, social services and leisure activities – things that really have a bearing on breaking new recruitment – are examined here in the Riksdag, you in the Moderates take it away. The last time you worked to close the Delegation against segregation, Delmos. You took that away in your budget bill. This shows once again that the Moderates do not understand that it is not enough just to tighten the penalties and invest in the police, as we do to a much greater extent, but also to constantly try to have a policy of breaking the new recruitment. As I said, we have had a knowledge centre for crime prevention in Sweden for decades. As far as the substance of the matter – the robberies – is concerned, I would like to say that youth robberies have decreased by 35% in recent years. Of course, I think that is very good. We must continue and, with all the police resources that we are now going out with, we must keep up the pressure on this type of crime. Of course, we will continue to work for this.
i-Pc4b9hrmpZFbXmVjs8thvS	Madam President, I would like Pontus Andersson has asked me if I am prepared to follow Denmark's example in terms of penalties in order to be able to sentence gang criminals to harsher penalties than today. Crime in criminal networks should be suppressed with the full power of society. We do so on a broad front by combating both the crimes and the causes of the crimes. These are more stringent penalties, a substantial expansion of the Police Authority, new tools for law enforcement authorities and a developed crime prevention work. In this important work we look at and cooperate with both Denmark and the other Nordic neighbours, but Sweden must also make its own balances. An important part of the work is to ensure that criminal law in this area is effective and that it clearly marks the seriousness of crime. Criminal settlements often lead to further crime through retaliation and also to outsiders. There is no doubt, therefore, that crime in criminal networks must be met by a strong reaction from society. The murder penalty was tightened on 1 January 2020 in order to bring the life sentence into question to a much greater extent than in the past. At the government's initiative, the penalties for serious violent and weapons crimes have also been tightened. In addition, at the turn of the year, the reduction in the penalties for young adults in the event of serious crime was abolished. The work continues fully in the field of criminal law. At present, the proposal of the Gang Crime Investigation is being prepared, which means the most comprehensive punitive measures against the criminal gangs ever presented in Sweden. The gang crime investigation proposes, among other things, increased penalties for several crimes that are common in criminal networks, such as drug sales, gross blackmail and robbery, and a new form of penalty-fixing rule that is designed to have a powerful effect in violent conflicts in the criminal environment. It is also crucial that crimes in the gang environment are cleared up. The government has decided on a bill with proposals to break the culture of silence and get more people to dare testify about crime. Among other things, it is proposed to provide a means of relief for those involved in the investigation of someone else's crime – so-called Crown Witnesses – and to strengthen penalties for abuse of justice. In addition, the law enforcement authorities have been given new tools. The possibilities of using camera surveillance have been extended, and the police have been given extended opportunities to search for weapons and other dangerous objects for preventive purposes. In addition, the introduction of a secret data reading means improved access to information on serious criminal activities. The government has also set up two new investigations aimed at extending the possibility of using secret coercive measures. The causes of crime must also be combated. Within the framework of the 34-point programme, the Government proposes several initiatives on prevention, including giving municipalities a statutory responsibility to work crime prevention. In addition, an investigator will examine whether, in order to increase security and reduce crime, there should be a possibility to restrict the right of individuals to reside in certain places or areas of society without the person having been sentenced to criminal sanctions. It remains one of the government's highest priorities that Sweden should break the segregation and suppress violence and crime. Sweden now has higher penalties than ever before in modern times, and law enforcement authorities have been given new tools and more resources. It is only possible to say that the government is doing extensive work against gang crime, and that work continues.
i-Wzh3fhbHJm2mKWDRGf2jzx	Madam President, I would like On April 4, this year, seven members of a criminal network in Copenhagen were sentenced to life imprisonment for attempted murder. The seven gang members searched in May 2020 for three people in a rival gang to kill them. When the rivals were located in a car, the now condemned men opened fire. A total of 26 shots hit the intended victims' car, but none of the people met. Fortunately for the people of the rival gang, none of the 26 shots fired were hit, but it is clear that people with this violent capital must be kept in prison for a long time. Thus, the behaviour of the Danish legal system is exemplary. In recent years, a number of people without connection to gang crime have been killed in Sweden, both by lost bullets and by gang members simply mistaken which person they went after. Far from anyone affected by gang crime and shadow society in Sweden are gang criminals themselves. If the same event that occurred in Denmark had taken place on Swedish soil with Swedish citizens, the sanction from Swedish justice system would have been far from as tough as in Denmark. Had the people been included in the youth discount, the people would very soon have been out on the street again and been able to continue their destructive behaviour. Denmark has, among other things, introduced double sentences for gang criminals and the opportunity to testify anonymously. Criminal gangs who commit group crimes are convicted in a group. Visiting zones have also been introduced. All of this is rejected by the Social Democrats. The view of the Swedish democrats is that people who commit such acts as have been described here before must be kept away from the streets for a very long time. But that is not the case in Sweden today. On April 15-17, the so-called Koran riots occurred in several places in Sweden. A man with Swedish and Danish citizenship had announced that he in several places in Sweden intended to burn the Qur'an. My opinion is that Koran burning is a rather infantile way of using their freedom of expression. But even people with infantile methods have the right to their freedom of expression. The Minister of Justice then said in an interview with Aftonbladet: This brings us back to a discussion about Denmark versus Sweden. If it is the case that criminals in Sweden are being superprovoked by this, why have we not seen similar riots in Denmark, where this provocateur has been publicly engaged in the same thing for a long time? If you do not want to know that it is the harsher Danish penalties that make sure that criminals in Denmark do not riot in the same way as in Sweden, you might imagine that it is Swedish integration that works worse than the Danish one. Denmark has had significantly lower immigration for a long time. Both the former Minister for Integration Inger Støjberg and the current one have been clear that those who come to Denmark will take the custom where they come from. Just as the Social Democrats do not follow Denmark's view of punishment, they have not adopted either Danish integration policy or Danish immigration policy. However, no matter in which area Sweden is failing, Morgan Johansson cannot be satisfied with a situation where at least 104 police officers have been injured in just three days. I would therefore like to put the following question to the Government: in what area has Denmark succeeded better than we in preventing this type of Koran riot?
i-Fro1cb547vFhCGLE4XCypW	Madam President, I would like I have to go back to yesterday again. It was a historic day. It was the first time that I heard the Social Democrats admit that they failed. Magdalena Andersson simply acknowledged his own total failure and also Morgan Johansson's failure – he has been Minister of Justice for eight years – given the serious crime in Sweden. Shooting has become a daily crime in Sweden. The first quarter of this year was the bloodiest ever in Sweden. It's been shot to death by a lot of people. Last night a young man was shot dead in Gothenburg when he was in a gym. This is going on around the clock when there are a lot of people around. It has become so much worse, even for ordinary law - abiding people. Unfortunately, that is the case. This really is a sad development in Sweden. What I did not hear, however, Magdalena Andersson or Morgan Johansson say yesterday was that they are actually responsible for this development. They've been in the government for eight years. I now expect, after this line shift, that Morgan Johansson will do what he usually does and blame the alliance government. But it's time to take our own responsibility. He's been a minister of justice for eight years anyway. Magdalena Andersson has said that she and this government are going to turn every stone to fight serious crime. That is simply not true. At the moment, we in the Committee on Justice are working on a better legal process. It includes the proposal on anonymous witnesses, which we Moderates want to introduce. However, the government does not want to do that. This is actually very strange. The police department wants anonymous witnesses. The E.R.A. wants anonymous witnesses. Victim Support Finland wants anonymous witnesses. The Prosecution Authority is also positive in that they want a better investigation in order to be able to make a final decision on how to approach the issue. I talked to them last week. They are positively focused but want a little more clarification in a new investigation. That's why I'm so confused. When Magdalena Andersson says to turn over every stone, what has been said is not true. It is the Police Authority, the Swedish Environmental Crimes Agency and the Swedish Prosecution Authority that are best placed to investigate crimes. If they say that anonymous witnesses are needed, I simply do not understand why the government does not want to introduce this. It is not the case that anonymous witnesses must be used if not needed. But when necessary, the tool must be in the toolbox. The Police Authority, the Swedish Environmental Crimes Agency and, to some extent, the Swedish Prosecution Authority consider this tool to be needed. I wonder: Why does this government not trust Morgan Johansson at the head of them?
i-UqHrbV1WkaHLzqtTDVF7eP	Madam President, I would like It's not that we blame the Alliance government. Let's just tell them the truth. In 2014, we redesigned criminal policy. Before that, the then alliance government had cut down on police training by 90 percent in two years to finance its tax cuts. That was the most important thing for the alliance government. It didn't care about the justice system. It didn't bother to tighten up any penalties. It did not bother to try to reduce segregation or improve conditions for the vulnerable areas. None of it was done. It was all about tax cuts. What we did in 2014 was that we changed that policy. We tightened the penalties. We have done so in a wide range of areas. We make sure to train more police officers, so that we now have more police officers than ever before. We've put up more cameras in the crime scene than we've had in the past. We have developed the police's tools with increased wiretaps and other things. We are also investing in prevention. So we have changed the policy. It is clear, however, that this kind of development is not being reversed at a glance. This is an organized crime that has been stuck in Sweden for a long time. The criminal motorcycle gangs came to Sweden 30 years ago – from Denmark, by the way, to the northwest of Skåne. What we are doing now should perhaps have been done 15 to 20 years ago, with tougher penalties, much harder pressure on the gang criminals and more of prevention efforts. They didn't do that at the time. Then we'll have to do it now. It will take a little longer, cost a little more money and be a little harder. But I am absolutely convinced that we will be able to do this. Pontus Andersson asks if we should take inspiration from Denmark. The short answer to that is yes. And we've actually already done that. I can start with the punitive measures. Over the past eight years, we have tightened the penalties for almost all of the serious violent crimes: aggravated assault, gross blackmail, gross illegal threats, aggravated robbery, aggravated rape, serious gun crimes, serious drug offences, and murder. Pontus Andersson seems to have missed that we have tightened the penalties for murder precisely to ensure that life imprisonment comes to increased use. This has also been confirmed by judgments of the Supreme Court. We have also removed the penalty for young people in serious crimes. All in all, this has had an effect. In 2020, Swedish courts sentenced 11 500 years of imprisonment. That is what they call the mass of sentences. That is an increase of 40% in three years. We judge considerably more than we did before, and we judge them considerably harder. Punishment has had an effect. As I said, we are continuing with what is now from the Gang Crimes investigation. These are tougher penalties for drug sales, increased arrests in the event of robbery, aggravated assault and extortion, a special criminalisation of the recruitment of young people and a penalty for gang dealings. Among other things, they have looked at Denmark. In fact, we specifically said that to the investigator: look at Denmark and what you do when it comes to criminal law on that side! We will also move on to something else that we are taking from Denmark, namely the ban on residence. It should be used as a sanction of its own to prevent gang criminals from staying in places exposed to crime and sometimes in a whole municipality. We have already imposed a restraining order on those who are on parole. Why do the shootings continue, even though we lock them up and lock them up longer? Because for every guy we take, there's another one in line to step in his shoes. This tells us that it is more important than ever to invest much in breaking the new recruitment to the criminal gangs. This may require other efforts in school, social services and leisure activities. Unfortunately, however, the right wing is completely empty in its policy.
i-LopkfyZWmBDvo98mMTFcpf	Madam President, I would like I asked Morgan Johansson a question at the end of my last speech on Denmark versus Sweden about the riots we saw between 15 and 17 April, and where the Minister of Justice believes that gang criminals have used this opportunity to throw stones at the police, to set fire to police cars and so on. 104 policemen were injured in these riots. I didn't get an answer, so I'm gonna ask you again. This provocateur has also carried out Koran burnings in Denmark, but we have not seen any riots there. Why do they happen in Sweden but not in Denmark? As I said earlier, burning religious writings is a rather infantile way of using their freedom of expression. I don't think you should burn anything at all for provocative purposes. But you have to do it, no matter what I or others think. From testimony and films we understand that even women and children threw stones at the police, so it wasn't just gang criminals who were active. These women, children and older men are people whom the Social Democrats have allowed into Sweden and whom the Social Democrats have failed to integrate. Perhaps they will never be integrated either, so we may have ended up in an integration problem here. Back to the basic question: Why does Denmark but not Sweden succeed? Morgan Johansson usually talks about prevention. Does Denmark have better preventive measures than Sweden? The Social Democrats have held government power for 20 years since 1994, so it is not possible to blame the situation on anyone other than your own governments. Regarding the possibility of keeping criminals locked up, on 27 April Denmark agreed with Kosovo to rent prison places so that criminals can serve their prison sentences there. Morgan Johansson often emphasizes that Sweden has a shortage of prison places – this is because it has not been able to build prisons at the same rate as the crime development has taken place. The Swedish Democrats have long been pushing the issue of renting prison places abroad. Is it possible to do what one of the stones the government intends to turn around to stop the development of crime? I am also trying to re-examine the first question I asked: in which area or areas has Denmark succeeded better than we to prevent Koran riots from occurring?
i-CGCeaMorRZWQLxj9EQ2ZCd	Madam President, I would like More or less every time we hear from Morgan Johansson that the only thing the Alliance did was to lower taxes. But let me remind Morgan Johansson that it was his government that removed the defense tax for the richest. It therefore rhymes rather badly that Morgan Johansson always deals with tax cuts. The government's done a lot of punitive work, which is great. What Morgan Johansson forgets to talk about is that most of the penalties are based on proposals in announcements from the Moderates and other opposition parties. But the Moderates want punishment, so we're glad you've done some right here. Morgan Johansson didn't answer my question about anonymous witnesses. The Police Authority, the Swedish Environmental Crime Agency and Victim Support Finland are for anonymous witnesses. The Prosecution Authority is also fundamentally positive. Why do you not trust the investigating authorities when they say they need this tool?
i-FPBu1uU64TNC1KPL5Kdyx3	Madam President, I would like I'll start with the last one. We've had an investigation conducted into, among other things, anonymous witnesses. They looked at the Nordic countries that have it on paper, but it is never used there because the requirements are so high. This is a symbolic question for you. If you ask Denmark, for example, if they have ever used this, the answer is no. What is much more effective is what we are now proposing to Parliament, namely Crown Witnesses. It provides an opportunity to unlock these quiet cultures and has proven to be effective in other Nordic countries. That is why we have taken that on board. We also tighten the penalties for abuse of justice. The problem with anonymous witnesses is that there is no way to check whether there is a connection between the witness and the plaintiff or between the witness and the person charged with a crime. Does one owe the other money? Is there any old schism in the bottom? Is there any reason for the witness to say as he or she does? Does the Witness say this to frame someone or to gain personal benefits? This can never be explained if witnesses are anonymous, and it is a problem of legal certainty. And as I said, it is almost never used in the countries we have looked at. The Easter riots were extremely serious and violent. However, I have great hope that we will be able to prosecute a great many of those who committed these crimes, and I think it is important that there should be a clear and clear response on the part of society. We now have a unique film material to start from thanks to all the cameras we have set up that were not in the Alliance's time. We've set up 450 cameras in the crime scene. This unique film material gives us an opportunity to review what really happened. We have also invested in police equipment, and many police officers in external service now have uniform cameras that keep following events. Thanks to this, we have yet another unique film material. There have also been drones up in some places. There are also thousands of films coming in from the public. People who have been in place or perhaps stood on their balconies and filmed are now sending their films to the police to help clear up these crimes. How many were active? I visited Rosengård on Tuesday immediately after the riots and talked to the police there. They said there were a couple of hundred individuals active at Rosengård. There are 20,000 people living on Rosengård, and these 200 are not representative of the rest of those living on Rosengård. It's extremely important to remember. This is also important in relation to the discussion we have with the Swedish Democrats, because the Swedish Democrats tend to pull all immigrants over. It's all their fault. But the vast majority of those living in the vulnerable areas just want to live their lives in peace and security and genuinely dislike the perpetrators and gang criminals and want to get rid of them. That is why we are now being helped by the public to clear this up, including through the submitted films. We shall proceed with the policies we have and continue to expand the judiciary, hire more police officers and tighten the penalties in relation to those who commit these crimes. But we must also invest in prevention. Unfortunately, the right is totally empty-handed there and has no money set aside in the budget for school, social services or leisure activities, at least not to the extent necessary to break the new recruitment to the criminal gangs. That is where the difference between the Social Democracy and the Right is on these issues.
i-GWQobrYKsaAWBzCYCWfM51	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister of Justice for his answer, although it was not really an answer to any of the questions I asked. The first question was what Denmark is doing right that we are not doing in Sweden. Paludan has burned books there too, but we have not seen riots there. Perhaps it is school and social services that have failed, perhaps it is the judiciary that has failed, or perhaps it is integration that has failed. All in all, it is the Social Democrats who are responsible for all of this. The second question was about renting prisons abroad. We voted on this matter in Parliament the day before yesterday, two days ago. Then the Social Democrats voted against. Morgan Johansson is happy to talk in interviews about overcrowded prisons and detention centres, and it is true that we have a lack of space. However, if it is now too slow to expand prisons at the rate of criminal developments, we need to look at other options, because we cannot have the situation that we are in right now. Denmark has, as I said, introduced double sentences for gang criminals, the opportunity to testify anonymously, gang criminals who commit crimes in groups are sentenced in groups and search zones. All of this is rejected by the Social Democrats. Madam President, I would like We have had 26 shootings so far this year and Koran riots, and we have a large and growing shadow society. I think I speak for large parts of the Swedish people when I say that the Social Democrats have failed there too. Security is the great issue of internal freedom of our time, and in this area Sweden and the government are heading in the wrong direction.
i-3hkM7Ak9Avjv2LXYyAVTVC	Madam President, I would like I will address some of the remaining points on the issues. Renting prisons abroad is an extremely expensive and cumbersome way of solving prison issues. It is much better to do as we do, namely to ensure that those of foreign origin in Sweden serve their sentences in the home countries. The international crime networks we have engaged in burglary often come from countries such as Romania, Poland and Lithuania. When we have sentenced them in Sweden, I think Romanians should serve their sentence in Romania, Lithuanians should serve their sentence in Lithuania and Poles should serve their sentence in Poland, because we need our prison places for our own criminals. We have therefore introduced legislative changes that speed up that process, to ensure that, once we have sentenced them, they can serve their sentences in their home countries. It is much more effective than renting prison places in completely different locations and in other countries. It's better to work this way. Each country has its extremists, Denmark also obviously. Paludan is a right-wing extremist or a kind of Nazi who, at this point, is just trying to cause as much harm as he can to Sweden. Why he hates Sweden and what we stand for I do not know. We haven't done anything to him, but that's what he's doing right now. We will continue to safeguard our freedom of expression, but we will also vigorously combat any tendency to use various perpetrators of violence to upset and disrupt order. As I said, the police are working on what happened during the Easter weekend, and I am convinced that we will have a large number of prosecutions in that part so that we can ensure that they get the sanctions they deserve.
i-KJseiKgYy3nbs7vVgRWTFa	Madam President, I would like Ludvig Aspling has asked me whether I will stop the reception of quota refugees who are already in safe countries. When assessing whether a residence permit can be granted for a quota refugee within the framework of resettlement to Sweden, the same considerations are made as when assessing an asylum application. This means that only persons considered by the Migration Agency to be refugees or other persons in need of protection in accordance with Chapter 4. Section 1 – 2 of the Aliens Act is eligible for resettlement as quota refugees. It is the Finnish Immigration Service that examines the need for protection individually in relation to the home country and, where appropriate, grants a residence permit. I would like to emphasise that resettlement is an important instrument of protection for persons who have urgent protection needs and for whom no other sustainable solution is available in the third country in which they are located. It is therefore the need for protection that determines. Sweden complies with the criteria of the United Nations Refugee Agency (UNHCR) for resettlement. UNHCR selects and presents those persons with special protection needs, such as women and children and survivors of torture and violence, who have medical needs and where no other solutions exist. Europe is in the midst of the biggest refugee crisis since the Second World War. If Sweden finds itself in a situation where an extremely large number of refugees come to Sweden, it will also have practical consequences for our reception of quota refugees in need of protection. The government is closely following the crisis and is prepared to take the necessary measures.
i-MZoc64SrBBneq8D3DaPPkj	Madam President, I would like We are facing a difficult refugee situation, potentially. Exactly how difficult it will be remains to be seen. Much is so far uncertain, but a great deal at the same time suggests that we will have a rather strained situation in the future. Basically, all politics is about prioritising, and that is why Minister Ygeman is here today – to explain how the government prioritises the reception of refugees. While the forecast shows that we will receive approximately 80 000 people from Ukraine before the end of the year and that everyone will be allowed to stay, plus a few tens of thousands of applicants from other countries, the government continues to bring quota refugees here, which means that Sweden goes out into the world and brings people here who say they need international protection. What is a little interesting here I think is which countries you choose to bring people here from. With regard, for example, to people from Afghanistan, it is clear, Madam President, that there are plenty of people who can no longer reside in that country. That goes without saying. But Sweden is not bringing Afghans here from Afghanistan, but from Georgia, India, Pakistan, Turkey and the United Arab Emirates. One question you have to ask yourself is, of course: why can the United Arab Emirates, which is the world's sixth richest country, richer than Norway, not take care of a handful of Afghans? Why must Swedish taxpayers, who are not backed by oil billions, also take that bill? I think this is a strange thing. Another interesting question is whether nobody in the government has noticed that none of these countries, from which we bring people here, are in war or have a large-scale internal armed conflict, any natural disasters that are destroying major parts of the country or any widespread famine. These are reasons that could otherwise be a good reason for bringing people here, but none of those countries are in that situation. All are middle income countries, although several are authoritarian states. UNHCR claims that quota refugees are particularly vulnerable and have medical needs. This is often the reason for moving people to Sweden. But why can't they get this care in place? In countries such as Turkey, India and Jordan, there is plenty of health care. It is also often countries that we give aid to, so would it not be a simpler version that we just pay the cost of care and then leave them behind? Why is the move to Sweden so important? The same applies to Sudanese people, whom we bring in from India, Jordan and Egypt. It is again middle-income countries that are not in war. We're bringing Syrians here from Saudi Arabia. Is it because the Saudis do not have money for this and therefore must send Syrians on to Sweden, or how have they thought here? Another interesting example is that we bring Turks from Zambia and Kyrgyzstan. Again, there is no internal armed conflict, even if it is a poor country. Why can't they stay in Kyrgyzstan? It's not as strange as it sounds. Kyrgyz is a language of the Turkish language family. Very many people living in Kyrgyzstan are ethnic Turks. It should be possible to remain there, you might think. My first question is this: why should we bring refugees from countries that are not in war, are not in armed conflict and are not impoverished while we have a starting refugee crisis less than a day's drive from Sweden? It is not that the Gulf states will accept Ukrainians in order to level the burden, but that is where we stand alone.
i-3g2ioJ3wBChu5NF1jBfSu9	Madam President, I would like As far as criteria are concerned for those designated as quota refugees, it is the United Nations Refugee Agency (UNHCR) that has established them. It is done on an individual basis and no other basis. If Ludvig Aspling wants to discuss those criteria, I think there are many from the UNHCR who can do so. Ludvig Aspling says that politics is about prioritising. Then he says that we should take refugees from Ukraine instead of taking them far away. It's a little exciting. When the war began, Ludvig Aspling and his party claimed on their website that Sweden was full and that we would not have the opportunity to oppose any from Ukraine. Now the Swedish Democrats have changed their minds, I welcome that, Madam President. It's a wise turn. But we didn't have that reversal when there was last war on our continent. When there was war in Yugoslavia, the Swedish Democrats did not want to accept people who fled from there, although it is closer to Mostar from the party leader's hometown of Sölvesborg than it is to Mariupol. There is something in Ludvig Aspling's argument that we take so many from Ukraine that we cannot take anyone who escapes from any other war. Madam President, I would like In 2015, Sweden received 163,000 refugees from the Syrian War. The year before, we received 83 000 refugees. One imagines that the Swedish Democrats then surely wanted to stop quota refugees. We had such poor capacity to receive, and we hit the ceiling. It was a serious refugee crisis in Sweden, because we received a lot of people. But, Madam President, that was not the case. The Swedish Democrats did not want to reduce the number of quota refugees when we received 163 000 people from Syria. On the contrary, they wanted more than double the number of quota refugees during the war in Syria. They wanted to go from 1,900 to 4,000. During the war in Syria in 2015, the Swedish Democrats wanted to double the number of quota refugees. Now they wanted first to put an end to Ukrainians coming here, and then they wanted to reduce the number of quota refugees. Can Ludvig Aspling explain what is behind the Swedish democratic change in course?
i-UgpPY9EeDpjN1vnpM52g2a	Madam President, I would like It's just hard to understand if you're not so smart from the start. What we said at that time was: we must stop irregular migration and the boat flight across the Mediterranean. It has disastrous consequences not only for human lives but also for terrorist financing, destabilisation and so on. We said at the same time: since there is a conflict, we can reach out to a few thousand people as quota refugees if we manage to stop other receptions. It's not weird. Another interesting issue is the obvious double standard applied by both Sweden and UNHCR for reception of refugees in Europe compared to other countries. The people that Anders Ygeman thinks absolutely must go to Sweden, although he does not really know why, have often lived in other countries than the country from which they have fled for quite a long time. I asked the Migration Board about it. I got the answer: most people have lived in the host country for a very long time, for example Syrian refugees have lived in Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan for almost ten years. Most people who come have also lived not in any camps but in apartments in an urban environment, according to the Migration Agency. If they have lived there for ten years, why is not Sweden's message that these Syrians, or whatever it may be, should become Turks, Jordanians, or which country it is now about, that is to say get citizenship there? Anders Ygeman therefore thinks that people who come to Sweden, but who really do not have any need to come here, should definitely get citizenship after four or five years. They should absolutely not have to learn any Swedish or undergo any cultural adaptation, because it is pure racism. It was in any case to the effect that the Social Democrats changed their minds five minutes ago. But then it applies to those who settle in Jordan or Turkey and who are not in danger of being sent back. They have a work permit, because they have these people in Turkey. They have their basic social needs secured, according to the Migration Board, and they have lived there for up to ten years. They certainly cannot become Turks or Jordanians, or whatever it is. That's impossible, according to Anders Ygeman. It is very strange, despite the fact that the issue of integration itself, as we usually call it, should be a purely non-issue when it comes, for example, to a Syrian moving to Jordan. There are two neighbouring countries. They share language, culture, religion and so on. It should be much easier to become a citizen there. Why are they not the message of Sweden and Europe to those countries that refugees who have lived there for a long time should be granted citizenship? One method that one could use if one now absolutely wants to bring people here – now I'm not saying that it's a good idea – is to tell these countries, for example, that we resettle one if you give citizenship to one. It's a pretty simple model. But you don't want to do that. My second question to Anders Ygeman is: why is it completely unreasonable to ask those countries to grant citizenship to these people when they have lived there for up to ten years? What Anders Ygeman also does is try to lift the responsibility at UNHCR and say: The criteria have someone else decided. We have no responsibility for that. But, Anders Ygeman, this should be known by the Government by now: It is a completely voluntary commitment that Sweden makes. No one is forcing Sweden to accept quota refugees. There are countries in our neighbourhood that have stopped this. That is absolutely something we can do if only the will exists. When it is a completely voluntary commitment, one cannot blame anyone else and say: it is the UNHCR that determines the criteria. We have nothing to do with this. When it is a completely voluntary commitment, Anders Ygeman, you have a great opportunity to decide the criteria yourself, if you want. But there is a lack of will in this case, and I wonder why.
i-Pu83tGNYynMHerDzWpWKxA	Madam President, I would like Ludvig Aspling intelligence I leave to the listeners to judge for themselves. Ludvig Aspling is asking me a question. I will respond to it and answer it. Is it completely unreasonable to demand that the countries in which these people are located also give citizenship to more people? No, I don't think it is. Ludvig Aspling has difficulty understanding the UNHCR criteria and the quota refugee system in this debate, despite the fact that the Swedish Democrats have previously wanted to increase the number. I would like to quote a great thinker for this House: ..................................................... Madam President, I would like The great thinker is Ludvig Aspling himself.
i-GBzqjkQjDzpp49WzG75iik	Madam President, I would like That's absolutely true. In theory, in any case, UNHCR picks the most needy. But then it depends on what reception capacity we have. When I made that statement, it was not that there was a war in Ukraine and that 80 000 people from our immediate neighbourhood were forecast to arrive in one year. The situation has changed. It is very strange about the Social Democrats. One moment they talk, they seem to understand that the reception capacity is limited. Second moment, that insight has been lost. Regarding what Anders Ygeman said, the question is as follows. Is it reasonable to ask these countries: can you please give these people citizenship? Then Anders Ygeman says: It is reasonable. We should be able to do that. Can Anders Ygeman give an example of when Sweden has publicly said to Turkey, Jordan or which country it can be about: Please, could you give these people citizenship? Can Anders Ygeman give an example of that actually happened? I'm waiting with excitement. I was going to briefly read out what the Migration Board says about the situation in Jordan. Among other things, they write: Jordan has a ten-year primary education that is free and compulsory for all children between 6 and 16 years of age, including refugees. Nearly 87 per cent of all Syrian children attended compulsory comprehensive school during the school year 2018/19. There is a comprehensive support programme for refugees in Jordan. Most families live under relatively orderly conditions. The major challenge for many refugees, including Jordanians, is the widespread unemployment combined with the cost of living. I think this is an important point. I can understand this, and I'm sure Anders Ygeman can understand this: If you have a family, you don't want to be unemployed. But should the asylum system be a system for people to avoid unemployment and high living costs? That's where we split up.
i-FMbbYqDSBWTpwPxNVdtFmE	Madam President, I would like It is quite clear that my role in this debate is completely superfluous. Ludvig Aspling could have the debate with himself. He could run between the speaker's seats and say in the first speaker's chair: We should not receive quota refugees. Then he would run to the other speaker's seat and say: We must double the number of quota refugees. He would then go back to the first speaker's chair and say: These are not real refugees. Then he would come back to the other speaker's chair and say: How can Ygeman claim that these are real refugees? Ludvig Aspling himself has managed to take all possible positions and can, with advantage, continue the debate in his own Chamber.
i-2y2WEN6kmXhshxo1v7EPNa	Madam President, I would like Ann-Christine From Utterstedt has asked me if I am going to take any initiatives on the basis of the report on the establishment of newly arrived women, if I have been aware that foreign born women after a long time in Sweden are still not integrated, how I intend to act to make foreign born women more employable and if I intend to take any initiatives to make immigrant women more easily part of our Swedish society and western values. Foreign born women have a weak link to the labour market, both in relation to native women and in relation to foreign born men. It is crucial that more women born abroad enter the labour market, and that is why the government has been working systematically on this since the last parliamentary term. In order for labour market policy measures to be distributed more equally, the Government has made gender equality a priority in the governance of the Employment Service so that gender equality is included in decision-making at all levels. The Gender Equality Agency recently presented proposals to strengthen opportunities for women born abroad to enter the labour market, and the County Administrative Boards have this year presented good examples of outreach and motivating work to reach women born abroad who are far from the labour market and education. In order to increase incentives to share parental benefit more equally for those with low incomes, the government has recently proposed that 90 days at the basic level of parental benefit be reserved in the same way as already applies for benefits at the sickness benefit level. The Government also proposes that municipalities contact the guardians of children who do not have a preschool place in order for more children to go to preschool. But that is not enough; more action is needed in several areas. The Government will therefore set up an investigation to investigate whether the target group for establishment measures should be extended to certain relatives who have immigrated to Sweden. It will also examine how the framework period for establishment can be adapted so that parental leave – within reasonable limits – does not limit the possibility of participating in interventions. The Government will also review the establishment allowance in order to individualise it in order to provide better incentives for women to start working. The Government already commissioned the Jönköping County Administrative Board in 2018 to revise the educational material for social orientation. The aim was to make the norms and values expressed through laws and regulations more visible and how Swedish society is organised. The material is now designed to serve as a basis for information and discussion on highly valued topics and issues, such as gender equality, discrimination, individual rights and obligations, sexual and reproductive health and rights, children's rights and the importance of democratic governance. The government will continue to monitor closely developments in the labour market and social life of women born abroad.
i-H6jcqtrQ5qWMLtbBXHg29n	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Integration and Migration for the answer, although I believe that none of the questions I have asked have actually been answered. The Ygeman Government talks a lot about gender equality in its response and completely misses the goal. Gender equality is not the biggest problem here. It is again integration that is not working at all. How will the current government succeed in addressing the problems of integration in general and the absence of women born abroad from the labour market in particular? Yes, obviously neither the government nor the government know that. It's just gonna be a tired statement that they've set up an investigation. Let us hope, however, that through today's debate, the Government will take the opportunity to clarify this. For decades, Sweden's government has urged the Swedish people to open our hearts and said that we will not be able to cope with either care or welfare without the increased reception of refugees. It has also been said that our country will benefit in the long term. However, no ruling politician has been able to account for the length of this term. The profits have so far failed, and a large part of the population feels cheated. Ordinary people with ordinary jobs in ordinary everyday life are forced to see their tax dollars sprinkled on those who have never contributed to our common tax cake. Hardworking citizens are disappointed and despaired that welfare is constantly deteriorating, that their children are victims of crime, and that their mother and father, instead of having life support measures, are left to die when society is exposed to a crisis. It's an unprecedented betrayal. It is pushed almost every day in our country, and parallel social structures with medieval values are growing stronger. Madam President, I would like The Government can well describe how he intends to tackle integration and ensure that foreign born support themselves.
i-7y66F8zLg4P51DzW1Sqfpz	Madam President, I would like I did this in my answer. If Ann-Christine From Utterstedt had not read out her written speech, she might have been able to reflect on the fact that more foreign born today go to work than ever before. What is Ann-Christine From Ann-Christine's analysis of it?
i-TAwUURK42P8zhJdZ3TcK6j	Madam President, I would like It was not exactly a comprehensive response from the Government, but I continue to try to get a sensible answer. The Social Democrats did not jump out of joy when this report arrived. A public hearing based on it was not possible. It seemed as soon as possible to regret that the issue was highlighted at all. Moreover, it was considered that there was no news. The report is merely a compilation of what has already been known, according to the Social Democrats. This is remarkable. Let us see, then, what the government has known for a long time but has not bothered to remedy. For example, Madam President, women can currently stay in Sweden for 15 years and after using all the SFI hours that are not even able to understand or understand the Swedish language. Lived in our country for 15 years – and they can't even master helpful Swedish. Let it sink in! It goes without saying that these women are not and will not ever be employable with the policy that the government is pursuing today. More than half of women in the establishment programme have a level of education of less than nine years. And then you should be aware that less than nine years can be zero years. The establishment programme seems to be able to be exploited endlessly by childbirth women. Reporting on participation in social orientation is so inadequate that it cannot even be included in the statistics. Madam President, I would like In addition, in 2019 1,770 individuals lacked a registered activity. What are they up to? Maybe the government can answer that.
i-NzBFFFTqtyECVGjbEHvEq4	Madam President, I would like Firstly, I note that Ann-Ann-Christine From Utterstedt did not speak with a single word about the fact that unemployment among foreign-born people is falling and that more foreign-born people are going to work now than ever before. It would be interesting to hear Ann-Ann-Christine From Utterstedt's reflection on it. Secondly, I would like to correct an incorrect statement by Mrs From Utterstedt. I don't think this report was bad. I think it was brilliant. I have had my own discussion with the investigator where I have examined the report in detail, and I plan to take several of the proposals, or the main elements of the proposals, further. I think that the report is an excellent material of knowledge to move on from. I also hope, of course, that the efforts of the Swedish Democrats will not confine themselves to indignantly quoting various paragraphs from the report, but that they will in fact also vote in favour of the proposals when they are presented to the House.
i-2omakFWfqRa6Dz5wTRgLZa	Madam President, I would like The government is ragging a bit in the usual order. Certainly, more foreign-born people have come into employment – perhaps even in work, but mainly in extra jobs and perhaps not in a normal, real, permanent employment. Madam President, I would like In connection with a serious robbery in a high school in my hometown of Västerås, the Government described that he and other rulers had suffered from kindness. It seems to be a new expression of the fact that the Social Democrats have neglected to make any demands whatsoever on individuals who have come here. The Social Democrats have opened the line for an incredible amount of migrants and financed the party with taxpayers' money. When are the Social Democrats going to make demands on self-sufficiency?
i-GUHyfrman9ELSVXdA3eWEM	Madam President, I would like We are very clear: anyone who can work should work. Only yesterday, Madam President, I presented a job and education obligation to those who have support for living. It shall not be possible to receive long-term support without working or training. The party I come from has for over a hundred years been doing your duty, demanding your right, as an overall slogan. We were the builders of the country, and we will continue to build the country even if the Swedish Democrats come with these outcomes. The fact remains that the Swedish democrats are empty of politics. They can easily criticize and vomit gall over one or the other social problem, but when it comes down to it, they usually do the opposite. Elections were made to stop profits in welfare. Then they drank brandy with some directors, and now they are for profit in welfare. Elections were made to raise the pension for many who, after a long, hard working life, have retired. Let's see how it goes, Madam President. Will the Swedish Democrats vote for the guarantee supplement and give up to SEK 1 000 to Sweden's pensioners, or will the promise to the Swedes be broken again?
i-Lhz23UvxoxS7LNRQJk7xfF	Madam President, I would like Boriana Åberg has asked me whether I intend to initiate a review of the legislation and regulatory framework for the ethical review of research. Boriana Åberg has also asked me what concrete measures I intend to take to ensure that Swedish research is not stifled by unreasonable bureaucratic demands. Finally, Boriana Åberg has asked what measures I intend to take to promote the integrity, independence and courage of researchers at Swedish universities. The purpose of the Act(2003:460) on the ethical review of human research, the so-called Ethics Review Act, is to protect the individual and respect for human dignity in research. Research on people without an ethical review permit or in violation of such a permit may lead to the risk of harming them or violating their personal integrity. Particularly vulnerable patients may be exposed to very high risks. Such errors not only affect those involved in the research project in question but risk seriously damaging public confidence in all research. It is therefore of the utmost importance that the regulatory framework for ethical review be complied with. Given that there were some uncertainties in the regulatory framework in the past, among other things that it was unclear what research was covered by the Ethics Review Act and what responsibility the research heads had in terms of compliance with the Act, the regulatory framework for the ethical review of research has recently been tightened, following proposals from the Government. The new rules entered into force on 1 January 2020 (prop. 2018/ 19:165). As the responsible minister for higher education and research, I am closely following developments in this area. In particular, in view of the recent strengthening of the regulatory framework, it is important now to follow legal developments in order to see that the changes have the effect envisaged by the legislator. Academic freedom and the freedom of research must be protected and strengthened. D is an important part of our democratic society. The freedom of research is of such great importance to the development of science and society that it is protected by one of our constitutions. Furthermore, the Higher Education Act (1992:1434) lays down certain general principles applicable to research, including free choice of research problems, free development of research methods and free publication of research results. The Parliament also recently decided, in accordance with the Government's proposal, on another general principle, namely that academic freedom should be promoted and protected in the activities of higher education institutions. To ask controversial questions as researchers and to seek answers to them through research is an important part of our democratic society. However, in the worst case scenario, this may lead to increased exposure to hatred and threats for researchers who ask these questions or present unexpected results. Here, the management of higher education institutions has a responsibility to combat hatred, threats, violence and harassment in the sector. As Minister of Education, I think it is very important that Sweden acts as a beacon for free research. But the free search for knowledge and the free dissemination of knowledge must, of course, always be exercised within the existing legal framework. It provides security and protection for the people who have chosen to participate in research and also ensures greater confidence in research as a whole.
i-UTho1pv79Ct49qZ8qDytkC	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. Unfortunately, the Minister avoids answering my questions and instead expresses some general opinion. Madam President, I would like A month ago, the Minister for Education and I had a debate on the ethical review of research and the Ethics Review Appeals Board. After that debate, I was called by several researchers in the humanities who wanted to tell me what their reality was. These scientists wanted to make sure that I would not reveal their name and place of work, because they were afraid of reprisals. Madam President, I would like I was born and raised in a communist country. I well recognize this fear of losing my job or being punished in even worse ways when one expressed the slightest dissatisfaction with the rulers or with the prevailing order. It is not worthy of Sweden, where freedom of expression is enshrined in the Constitution, that people should be afraid to point out errors and shortcomings and that researchers should be afraid to investigate issues that are considered controversial, such as immigrants' over-representation in crime statistics. The Minister dwells on the importance of respect for human dignity and the fact that personal integrity is not violated, which is to break open doors when no one has questioned this. What is being called into question is the extensive bureaucracy and juridification that threaten free research. Since the Board of Appeal for Ethics Review, Ö nep, received the supervisory mandate in 2020, it has reported more than 20 researchers. Most cases have been dropped by prosecutors. One has so far led to prosecution, but for some reason the court proceedings have been postponed. The Minister says she's following developments since the law enforcement came into effect. Does the Minister think the system is working? I don't. The case of the researcher in Lund, a well-appointed doctor with decades of practice and research behind him, is frightening. The handling of the case by the Board of Appeal for Ethics Review is not worthy of the rule of law. That is why I asked the question whether the Minister is prepared to initiate a review of the law. There are courageous voices in the scientific community who believe that the ethical review has become a straitjacket for research and that it is not about ethical testing but about pure and simple exercise of power. Those on the Ethics Review Board control not only the research to be carried out but also the fate of individual researchers. I would like to repeat my question: is the Minister prepared to initiate a review?
i-AEk8x1tEjaHQ4wxLk4t5Zr	I would like to draw the honourable Member's attention to the fact that the content of the decisions taken by the authorities in individual cases must not be criticised or debated in this House. That is the rule we have in this case. I say it so that you remember that balance.
i-3caShhjP7ARA8XP8Z8eNLn	Madam President, I would like Thank you for reminding me! The previous interpellation debate we had was to a large extent about me explaining to Boriana Åberg precisely that I, as Minister of State, should not and should not comment on how authorities apply the law in individual cases when it comes to the exercise of authority against individuals. I try to beat out Boriana Åberg's criticism, and I see that Boriana Åberg makes a large number of claims. These are allegations that freedom of expression is in danger and that there would be a purpose in meaning that uncomfortable research should not be carried out and that it would somehow be carried out with the code of ethics testing as a cover. I would like to remind Boriana Åberg that research ethics legislation and the existing regulatory framework aim to protect the individual and respect for human dignity in research, but also to protect research in such a way that we can all feel a sense of trust and trust in the research projects that are being carried out, and which sometimes and quite often necessarily, Madam President, involves treating everything from people physically to data in registers and other things about people. Therefore, and after a very attentive case that is highly topical these days, tightening up of the Ethics Review Act was introduced in terms of both supervision and sanctions. A central system was also introduced to deal with suspicions of misconduct in research. Madam President, I would like This is not unique to Sweden. In many other countries, new regulation has also come about after irregularities, errors and sometimes even scandals have been highlighted – scandals that have sometimes shown how bad things can happen when the ethical code of conduct does not function as intended and show how important the ethical review is to protect the individual and confidence in research activities. There is broad political support for the importance of ethical review in research. The Parliament agreed on the proposals for tightening up that were put forward, and the legislation that is now in force is not very old. It came into force on 1 January 2020, I think. I will check that task so that I do not say wrong in the Parliament's pulpit. The fact that this ethical review would in some way have as a purpose or as some kind of unexplained hidden effect that the cape would be directed towards uncomfortable research is a task that is completely out of the question and which all of us who are used to working with government officials have very difficult to recognise. There is a clear regulatory framework within our form of government that is about applying laws and regulations in the way they are written, a principle of legality, and we have a principle of public access that allows you to go in and look at how decisions are made. We have opportunities to appeal and report. These are opportunities that have been applied to quite a large extent to the new regulatory framework as well. May I say on one point that I agree with Boriana Åberg. It is that we really must follow this closely so that increased bureaucracy does not result. This is always a difficult balance, Madam President. Should you have some kind of legal certainty criteria, it usually follows bureaucracy, but that it should be at the appropriate level for these rules, I agree, and I intend to follow the application of this legislation very closely.
i-YScQDP5butsF4CCvRj5FTf	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for this agreement. We really must fight the bureaucracy. On the other hand, I am a little disappointed that the Minister is calling my statements and therefore implicitly saying that I would have made them up. I recommend the Minister to read the articles in DN signed by some well-reputed researchers from, among others, the universities in Lund and Umeå. My interpellation was built on their articles. Those who have daily transparency in the academic world describe very thoroughly how the increased bureaucracy in ethical testing stifles free research and creates frightened and frightened researchers who do not dare to investigate something that in the slightest way can be considered controversial. This is a major threat to Swedish research. The Minister is talking about international outlooks, and I would like to do that. Sweden is alone among the Nordic countries in regulating the ethical review of research in the Ethics Review Act, which covers research in all subject areas. In Sweden, research in the field of health and medicine is equated – which includes experiments on living and dead people, embryos, tissues, cells, human genomes, clinical tests of pharmaceuticals and more that require extremely careful ethical trials – with research on statistics, figures and percentages where no one can identify which individuals are behind the data. Sweden is very lonely about this in the Nordic countries. Instead, in Denmark, Finland and Norway, there are special laws governing ethical review in medicine and health science research, while ethics in other subject areas is regulated by, among other things, laws on data protection and personal data. In Denmark, Finland and Norway, research ethics committees have the main responsibility for ethical review of research in the medical and health sciences. In other research areas, authorities in the area of data protection, for example, have overall responsibility. It is a clear distinction, and it is desirable that it be introduced in Sweden as well. In Finland, for example, there is no legal regulation of ethical review for research in areas other than medicine. There is a research ethics delegation that has published national guidelines that contain ethical principles for humanistic, social and behavioural research and suggestions on how ethical review can be organised in such research. It trusts the researchers and their ability to make independent ethical considerations. Why can't the Minister of Education trust that Swedish researchers are capable of doing so?
i-9FdLRfBMYc6aWrsZNJ6ced	Madam President, I would like I would like to remind you once again that the regulatory framework under discussion is a regulatory framework decided by the Swedish Parliament. All parties supported this legislation. Madam President, I would like I would like to make an effort to clean up the cloud of criticism that Boriana Åberg brings. First of all, is there too much bureaucracy in the regulatory framework? We should know that it is a fairly new piece of legislation. It was created above all after a very attentive case that made many of us very concerned and caused the Riksdag to make this clear law enforcement. We all want legal certainty. We all want transparency. We all want decisions to be taken in a way that citizens can trust. But we also know, Madam President, that legal certainty always has a reverse, namely documentation requirements, bureaucracy and spending part of your working time putting things on paper to ensure that decisions and the like can be traced. Is that too much bureaucracy? I think that it is, in principle, an impossible question to answer on the basis of the information that has come to light so far on how the law is applied. However, like Boriana Åberg, I have really taken note of the debate and follow it very closely. Of course, we should have a regulatory framework that has the legal certainty we want, but where bureaucracy must not be too large. Where it is too big is a very difficult question to decide. But, as I said, I will follow the matter closely. The next question has been big in the debate on research policy but is not as big in Boriana Åberg's speech. However, it came up at the end. Is the regulatory framework adapted to different research methods? Boriana Åberg made a distinction here between medical research on people and research based rather on registers. If you follow the debate that is taking place in the scientific community, you can see that it is more about whether the regulatory framework is adapted to different research methods. Is the regulatory framework correct for various types of documents, for example? It is not so much about what areas of science are involved, but rather what research methods are used. This too, Madam President, is an issue well worth following. I would like to remind you that in the various bodies that we are now discussing and whose positions I refuse to speak on because I respect the requirements of the Constitution, there is a clear element of representatives of our scientific community. I would also like to remind you that the regulatory framework was developed in close collaboration with the research community and with active researchers who also participated in the investigation work ahead of the legislation. I would like to emphasise that this discussion is worth taking. It's important and useful. The rule of law is new, but I follow the question closely. I will continue to follow it closely, because we must be careful to ensure that legislation works on different research methods. In her introductory speech, although not so much in the following post, Boriana Åberg keeps returning that there would be dorkish attempts to stifle uncomfortable research. Forget it!
i-UY9jeobaxZW26Ei6Pmk1jg	Madam President, I would like It is reality that supports my claim that inconvenient research is suffocating. I shall not deal in detail with the two cases that the Minister does not wish to comment on, but it is very clear that research that is considered uncomfortable for the current government is being criticised on the wrong grounds. There is a reason why Önep has decided that this election year should review research on criminality and other matters in this area. It is a very clear statement that something is not right. I would like to say something more. In his reply, the Minister mentioned hatred and threats to scientists who show uncomfortable facts. Unfortunately, there are those who represent the threats within the system, within the Board of Appeal for Ethics Review. Being registered to Önep poses a major threat, and it keeps researchers in trodden paths. They become conformed and extremely cautious. Research in many areas risks becoming meaningless and irrelevant, while important societal problems continue to grow as the price for research into them is very high. The researchers who have been registered by Önep have paid an incredibly high personal price for it, and it is not worthy of a democracy like Sweden to treat researchers in this way.
i-DSRTSDJjn9x41WHG4LrYd3	Madam President, I would like I note that Boriana Åberg again makes very categorical statements about the content and accuracy of decisions taken by an independent authority. She's even tracking some sort of motive that has to do with government policy. I think this is tremendous. Hate and threats to individual researchers are a major problem. Just a few years ago, it went so far that a bomb attack was placed at the National Secretariat for Gender Research in Gothenburg. This is a problem to be taken very seriously. It will be investigated by the law enforcement authorities. And we from public society should be behind the researchers who are exposed to hatred and threats. Comparing such hatred and threats with an authority's application of a regulatory framework, which is decided by a unanimous parliament, is highly imaginative, Madam President. I have great respect for the difficulty of these balances, and I also have great respect for those researchers who feel that their research has been made more difficult by bureaucracy or because, in their opinion, the regulatory framework makes their research methods more difficult. However, I refuse to agree to the image that Boriana Åberg is trying to paint that there would be a conspiracy-like direction in which uncomfortable research would be silenced or made more difficult. On the contrary, the freedom of research means that researchers should be free to choose their research areas, and I will fight very hard for the freedom of research to be strong in our country.
i-CkTNHGvKbeUijwpoJgqAUn	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell, Lars Beckman and Marléne Lund Kopparklint have asked what measures the government intends to take to ensure compliance with Parliament's decisions on the wolf tribe in Sweden. Alexandra Anstrell also asks whether the intention is to support animal keepers in order to increase food supply and whether the intention is for the wolf tribe to stabilize on 400 wolves. Lars Beckman also asks what dialogue has taken place between the government and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency on the matter and if the government sees any negative consequences for those who live and work in vargy areas if Sweden gets a wolf tribe of over 600 wolves in the near future.
i-Hh6xHyTuJ8xkuVoDtidw9x	The work within the government is so divided that it is I who should answer the interpellations. I'll answer them all together. A comprehensive and long-term objective of Sweden's predatory policy is to achieve and maintain favourable conservation status according to the EU's species and habitats directive while not significantly hampering domestic animal husbandry and taking socio-economic considerations into account. Green industries are needed for sustainable development and growth throughout the country, including in predatory areas. Parliament's approval of the predator bill (prop. 2012/ 13:191) included a target of the reference value for favourable conservation status for the Swedish wolf population, i.e. the minimum number of wolves to be present in order for the Swedish wolf population to be considered as having a favourable conservation status. The reference value for favourable conservation status is a value that must not be underestimated, i.e. simply a floor for the wolf strain. The Parliament decided that the reference value would be somewhere between 170 and 270 individuals. According to the bill, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency was then to assess the exact reference value within the parliament approved range and report the value to the European Commission.
i-DroMA8pWZRRST4P1FdE1wk	According to guidelines from the European Commission, a vulnerability analysis should serve as a basis for the development of benchmark t. It is about finding a level of the tribe where it is not at risk of extinction. The vulnerability analysis underlying the 2013 reference value was criticised for not taking into account genetic aspects, which is a requirement of EU guidelines. The Government therefore commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency in 2015 to update the analysis on the basis of a broad scientific basis and on the basis of it investigate what is required for the population to be considered as having favourable conservation status. The analysis showed that, given the inbreeding rate of the Scandinavian wolf population, at least 300 wolves are needed in Sweden, and at least one immigrant wolf from Finland or Russia needs to reproduce with a Scandinavian wolf every five years in order for the population to have favourable conservation status. Member States report the situation of the wolf's conservation status to the European Commission every six years. For population size reference values, Sweden indicated the reference value 300 for favourable conservation status in relation to the population size of wolf in the latest reporting 2019. I understand that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's assessment of the favourable conservation status of the wolf in Sweden is based on the scientific basis required by guidelines from the European Commission. Since the Species and Habitats Directive requires that the maintenance of favourable conservation status is not made more difficult, it is a fundamental condition when deciding on a licence hunt that the wolf in Sweden achieves and maintains favourable conservation status. The Government also considers it reasonable that statistical models, known as tax models, should be used as a knowledge base in the administration prior to hunting decisions. This means that the administration is based on science and the best available knowledge. In order to mitigate the negative effects of predatory practices on green industries, the government has introduced changes to the wildlife damage regulation. The government has removed the previous maximum limit on compensation of 80 per cent of the costs. The costs are now fully reimbursed. The government continues to monitor the development of the wolf population and its impact on domestic animal husbandry and other socio-economic aspects.
i-WCrnt1Y3HF9wqVxK3tuKsq	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. Earlier during the spring winter there was a preliminary report from Viltskadecenter that even more wolves have been secured in Sweden during the ongoing inventory. The trunk is now at a record level. When I wrote the interpellation 70 vargrevir had been sighted in Sweden. Now, as of 14 April, another 4 territories have been sighted, i.e. 74 territories. New puppies are now expected to come, and they are likely to be born in May. It usually happens in about four out of five territories. If you count an estimated four puppies per litter, there will be a large increase in wolves. Let me give you a calculation example. It is believed that there will be puppies in four out of five territories, i.e. 80% of the territory. Then there will be almost 240 more wolves in addition to those already sighted. We're almost 700 wolves. This decision-making assembly, which I have learned, is the highest decision-making assembly in Sweden, has decided that the reference value should be between 170 and 270 wolves. Then the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency was commissioned by the previous government to raise to 300 wolves. Then they have rounded up Sweden's highest decision-making assembly. It is now feared that the agency will increase the number of wolves further in the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's new design of tax models for large predators. It is said that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has decided that the wolf tribe will stabilize in 400 wolves when there is still a decision in the Riksdag on quite different figures. I'm worried. Nevertheless, I would like to believe that we live in a democracy, but this is actually putting democracy completely out of hand – with the permission of the Ocial Democrats. The Parliament has decided that the number of wolves should be between 170 and 270, and then gives the government a free lease to decide something completely different. We Moderates are now trying to create a majority in the Riksdag for 170 wolves. It is serious to round up democracy – no matter what issue we are talking about. The lack of democracy must not be increased. We really must oppose this, and we must work for our democracy every day. How will Parliament's decision on the wolf tribe be complied with, was my question to the government. The Minister referred to a bill from 2012, a sustainable predator policy. According to the bill, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency was to assess the exact reference value within the Swedish Parliament approved range and report the value to the European Commission. I wasn't there in 2012, but I've been doing my homework. The Riksdag decided on an interval between 170 and 270, and then the agency would return with a specific figure in between. That's interesting. That's when you went to 270. In my world, this is not in between but something completely different. If it's going to be right at the end, it has to be right from the start, and it hasn't been in this case. Then I think you have to take responsibility for correcting it. Then, as the Minister mentioned, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency was tasked with updating the analysis. The work did, but they have interpreted it as a matter of updating the parliamentary decision. But the Riksdag has not done so. The government has therefore rounded the Riksdag time and time again and tried to blame itself on a nine-year-old bill and the EU when, in fact, it is the government that does not ensure that Parliament's decisions are complied with and does not seem to intend to raise the issue in democratic terms either.
i-4xuQCaS2TC9KTHmWYJegPo	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. Madam President, I would like It's almost May Day. Then I think Annika Strandhäll and others will go out and demonstrate, admittedly against themselves, as the Social Democrats have done for the past 100 years. If the Government had read the local media, which I suspect Strandhäll does not, she would have seen an article about a wolf meeting in Färila on Saturday. At that meeting in Färila about wolf there were more than 100 participants, that is, more than the Social Democrats will shudder at the first May train in Hälsingland. Why did 100 people gather in Färila on Saturday? Because the wolf is a big problem. That is a problem for farmers. There was a woman attending the meeting who has an agricultural property in Kilafors, and she told me about 19 wolf observations with the surveillance camera on her property in the last two months. There is so much wolf there, Madam President, that when SVT Gävleborg is there and is going to do a piece about the wolf problem, there will be a wolf in the middle of the day and goes past her farm. Irene Frank tells me about the concern she feels about it. A woman from Dalarna who conducts sheep breeding told at the meeting how her sheep, her business, have become a sandwich table for wolves in Dalarna. She told me about all the consequences it has for her when she can't do her business. It is her income, Madam President, that is literally being eaten by wolves. The most disturbing thing about the meeting in Färila, which I was on for two hours, was when a man stood up at the back and said this: There's no point in us voting, for those fucking – excuse the expression; I quote him – those hm-hm politicians don't follow Parliament's decisions. People are very aware of the decision taken by the Riksdag, what Alexandra just read out here. The Parliament decided that we should have 170 – 270 wolves. Had we had 170 – 270 wolves, as the Riksdag decided, with good distribution throughout Sweden, there would not have been 100 people in Färila on Saturday, because then we would not have had a problem. Then wolf and man could have had a good interaction between each other. The meeting in Färila was also attended by hunters, who spoke about the Swedish cultural heritage of loose dog hunting. Now you don't dare and you can't hunt like that because of the high predator pressure. The problem, Madam President, is that we have a predatory pressure that is concentrated in three or four counties, although the wolf is now beginning to spread. I think it is completely toned by the Social Democrats to accept a level of wolves in Sweden of 700. 700 wolves are causing enormous problems. It is shameful that the Social Democrats do not care about the countryside. Between the bowl and the wall, it has been suggested that all the bad decisions made by the MP-S government were those of the Green Party. But in the answer given by the Government just now, it is clear that it is the policy of the Social Democrats that now leads to 700 wolves in Sweden. That is completely unreasonable, Madam President.
i-CXpxcAwwD6yMQryRnp12gJ	Madam President, I would like It is not often that I see a minister sitting in this Chamber laughing at me when serious things are mentioned that affect people's everyday lives, which are important in people's everyday lives. It's not one of the nicest things to do that way. But it's up to everyone. Respectlessness, arrogance and ignorance characterise this debate. A radical change is now required. My colleague Beckman was at the demonstration that was up in Dalarna and has been in Gävleborg, which has been in several places around the country. There is a demonstration in every home in Värmland, almost, in every home located in the countryside near the wolves and has the wolf in the knots. Since last winter's inventory of the wolf tribe, new puppy litters have emerged. It can now be estimated that the wolf tribe is likely to be nearly 700 wolves. The Minister can sit and laugh about that, Madam President, but I am absolutely convinced that my warmers do not. Is this reasonable? No, not in view of people's insecurity and farmers' ability to operate and not in view of how many wolf individuals the Riksdag actually said we need to have in Sweden. I am absolutely convinced that if Minister Strandhäll settled in my county, Värmland County, and became a sheep farmer, had little children and lived in a house somewhere in the forests of Värmland, the Minister would also think that the wolf tribe should be reduced. That would be a very topical issue. But as long as it does not concern politics directly or come close, as long as you do not have a genuine interest in listening to people's concerns and in fact take it seriously, then you can stand in this House and a little bit of gloating away all the arguments. Madam President, I would like The wolf creates great anxiety and harm. Daily we hear about sheep farmers whose animals are attacked, about ewes who throw their fetuses and do not become pregnant, about the hunting corps – who regulate the game tribe – who get their hunting dogs killed or maimed and about preschools that keep the children in the days for fear of ironing wolves outside. How far will it really have to go before the government starts putting rural people and domestic animals before the wolf? It's not possible for my warmers to do this politics. It is not possible for people living and working in rural areas to have up to 700 wolf individuals when the Riksdag has decided that the number should be between 170 and 270. Rather, it arouses contempt for politicians. In the worst case, the anxiety becomes so great that you take the law into your own hands, which I reject. But it is a fact, and there is a risk that you will do so when you do not feel the security that you should feel with the politics being conducted in Sweden.
i-TxmrCeoWnDzZsQ18XdGp6s	Madam President, I would like I did not intend to take part in this debate. I had a debate just before. However, when I heard what the debate has been initiated by my colleagues, I thought I could also put a question to the Minister for the Environment. Since a year back there has been a vargrevir in Skåne, something that is very unusual. The wolf does not belong to Skåne because there are not so many natural conditions for it there. But the large number of wolves in Sweden has caused a couple to form territory on Linderödsåsen. Besides, they've got six puppies. This year these puppies become sexually mature. They'll go out looking for partners and looking for food. What will be the food for them, besides the game they take? They pose a huge risk to livestock farmers in Skåne. There have already been attacks on sheep and goats. When you ask the county administrative board how to protect your cattle from the wolf, they say: Review the fences! Make sure there's no hole in the fences! These are extremely large areas you have to fence in to keep the wolf out. In addition, these fences must be very high. No sheep - feeder can afford to have so much fence around his cattle. In addition, the County Administrative Board says you should have electricity in the fences. Does the Minister know how much electricity is in Skåne these days? Yesterday the price per kilowatt hour was 230 cents. It is ten times higher than in northern Sweden. It is crystal clear that livestock farmers cannot afford to have fences, let alone to have electricity fences. The only way to protect the cattle is to reduce the number of wolves.
i-Utd4ZSdmnKzJWgeEUueL52	Madam President, I would like One can almost think about which end to begin to answer in this interpellation debate. I have been Minister for Climate and Environment since the end of November and have been standing here in a number of interpellation debates on wolf. I have therefore, of course, had reason to familiarise myself with the history behind this. I must say that I am amazed at the total unseriousness of a number of moderate Members of Parliament on this issue, time and again. It also shows to the citizens a complete inability to convey the facts. Instead, one stands in the speaker's seat and makes statements that have no factual basis at all. This applies to both how the levels are set for the wolf tribe in Sweden and what regulations apply, which any government, regardless of color, will have to relate to. In addition, Lars Beckman says, speaking that I could not help expressing my astonishment when I sat here and listened, and evicts that the Social Democrats have decided that we will 700 wolves in Sweden. That's not even in your interpellation. That's where you wrote 600. You just pulled something, didn't you? That's total lies. And then you have the nerve to attack the minister, who in his interpellation answer explains the facts. It's like this, as you know. You know, because you are in the Swedish Parliament, that we are, of course, obliged to comply with the Species and Habitats Directive in Sweden as well. The wolf is a strictly protected species. This means that, as a general rule, wolves must not be deliberately caught or killed in nature. Don't the MPs think we should comply with laws, speaking of what Alexandra Anstrell said here earlier? The Directive allows Member States to derogate from the protection requirements under certain conditions. That derogation means that hunting for wolf may be permitted if certain conditions are met. One such condition is that the maintenance of favourable conservation status is not made more difficult. What Members of Parliament are putting at risk when they talk about Parliament deciding 170 wolves in Sweden are the scientific facts that form the basis for favourable conservation status – they make exactly the same estimates based on facts regarding other predators in Sweden – and who say at least 300 wolves to do this. Don't shake your head, because you know it's like that! As regards the wolf in Sweden, a favourable conservation status must be achieved and maintained. This is of central importance if we are to have the right to both protect and not least license hunting in Sweden. It is the one you put at risk when you are conducting a debate in the Swedish Parliament which is some kind of spectacle for hunters and citizens out there, which is not consistent with the truth. You're putting the license hunt on the line. Answer it instead!
i-Q3rDRp9NcVgWsk9uULiBZw	Madam President, I would like I don't know if to thank you for the answer, but I'm polite and I do. Yesterday I received a message from sheep owners in southern Stockholm County. They're shutting down. It is about all the increased charges, fuel prices, electricity prices and, on top of that, a predatory policy which, they want to say, is insane. The Minister says in his reply that we would be rogue. I can tell you that since I sent in this interpellation, like a month ago, things have happened. After that, the bill has been completed and checked how many wolves we have and how many territories there are. Then a calculation is made of approximately how many will puppies in how many territories. Then the number rises avalanche. The more territory, the greater the equation. I do not know whether the Minister thinks this is unserious or not. I think it is unserious to stand here and accuse us of doing some kind of acting and to say that people in the countryside would do it when they live in insecurity and do not even dare to send their children to the bus but have to drive them to the bus stop. In Sweden we also have a very poor degree of self-sufficiency. Every other bite we eat is imported. We won't make it far. We need a better alert. Sweden needs a higher degree of self-sufficiency. Sweden has adopted in this House a food strategy that clearly points to an increase in food production. It doesn't come by itself. Someone must take care of the animals; someone must raise them. This requires that you can start, operate and expand your livestock production and that you have the opportunity to run it small-scale. The animals don't come out of the factory, they live somewhere. Many keepers who live near vargrevir have very big problems – much bigger than many of the others, although they also have big problems, not least at present. Madam President, I would like Not least now, in the situation of security policy, food security should be very high on the government's agenda. But I wonder if the government even cares about our vulnerable animal owners. I am talking about those who are trying to make sure that we have decent meat on our plates, follow our animal welfare rules and ensure that we have open landscapes. Then you have to have animals there too. They're the ones who worry at night about whether the animals are even left when you get out in the morning. They are the ones who, after a predator attack, go out into the pasture looking for their injured animals and may be forced to kill a sheep that has been bitten in the throat and who still lives and sharpens through a bloody hole in the throat. They are the ones who also have to deal with all the paperwork surrounding the attack, both practical and bureaucratic, and who may receive only a flat-rate payment instead of the actual cost of their fine breeding sheep. They are the ones who, as Lars Beckman says, get their income eaten by wolves. That's exactly what it is. Madam President, I would like From all points of view, these keepers are vulnerable. No matter what they do, it's gonna be hard. It will be difficult to find motivators at last. I believe that Sweden's food production is greatly affected by the fact that it has wolf around the knot and other charges. In sheep farming there are approximately 33 ewes per farm. It is small-scale, and there is no possibility for these breeders to move forward. According to the bill referred to by the Minister, we produced 40% of the lamb meat we eat in Sweden. Now it's only 29%. We'll soon have no domestic food production left. What does the Minister say about that? In the government they seem satisfied anyway, unfortunately.
i-XwGUBPzdJYykbDUwJFfd96	Madam President, I would like While the Government is sitting in this Chamber scorning at us who are lifting the predators' problem and accusing those who are protesting against predators' policy of acting, there is a reality out there. This reality gathered over 100 people in Färila last Saturday – more than those who will go on the first May train of the Social Democrats throughout Hälsingland. On Wednesday evening, there was a great manifestation on the Main Square in Falun against the prevailing Swedish predatory policy, as the organizer himself says. The representative of those who had arranged the manifestation, Anette Eklund, says: We want the issue to be taken seriously. Listen to that, Madam President: we want the issue to be taken seriously. At this manifestation, organised by eleven associations in place, various stakeholders raised the problem of predatory policy – the predatory problem that the responsible Minister of Social Democrats is standing in this Chamber denying. I want to give Strandhäll right on one point: there are 600 wolves in the interpellation, because that was the task that existed then, when I wrote the interpellation. So, just as Alexandra Anstrell said, it is now that you have finished inventorying 700, if you calculate the number of puppies. That's why we say the number 700. I understand that Strandhäll never reads Swedish Hunting, but if she did, she would know. Empathin with horse breeder Tina Lundblom, who was at the manifestation last Wednesday evening, really shines with his absence in the State Council's speech. In Dalarna's Newspapers she describes how she breeds American miniature horses. She says wolves are nice animals, but there's too many of them. This is probably the starting point. I've never met anyone who has anything against wolf. All predators are needed. We will have a rich fauna in Sweden with all predators. But the problem is when they get too many. I met a family of children in Lingbo, outside Ockelbo. There the mother said: Yes, so far no child has been eaten by wolf in Sweden, but I don't want my child to be the first. This is how it is to live in Gävleborg and other counties where you have a very high predatory pressure. It is about the farmer in Kilafors, who has the wolf on his farm over and over again, with all the problems it creates. I myself have urged this female entrepreneur to demand protection hunting every time. But I'm going to get rejected,' she said. Yes, but you have to ask, I said, because that's our only way to show the government that the legislation is not working. Had the same wolf been in Nacka, we know what would have happened. Then it would have been shot directly, and rightly so, because it says in the predator bill that one can take socio-economic consideration, and wolf should not be near man. But why on earth don't you shoot the wolf who is back and forth in Kilafors? The system doesn't work. It is quite unreasonable that after the puppies we now have 700 wolves in Sweden and that the Government stands and defends that policy. It is totally irresponsible to Parliament's decision. If it is the case that the Social Democrats want to change Parliament's decision, then come back with another proposal! See if you can get a democratic decision on that. But now it is the government with the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency that is doing this. The Social Democrats are doing this. That's why people are protesting around Sweden. Predators' policy doesn't work. That's the problem.
i-Jd5C4mJ99QpFRZ1gVjKVac	Madam President, I would like It is easy to sit on your high horses and swing with words that we stand with ignorance or do not stick to the facts. But in fact it is the opposite. I would like to inform the Minister that in 2013 the Parliament decided that Sweden would have 170 – 270 wolves to comply with the EU directive on the maintenance of Gybs. The interval is based on the scientific study that researchers have done on the smallest viable population, MVP. It would then be about 100 wolf individuals. To maintain this level, a span of 170 to 270 wolves was decided. These are the facts that I think the Minister should stick to when she enters this debate. We have to move forward at some point in the predatory debate – this endless debate that means a lot to people in rural areas. There are 200,000 wolves in the world. The wolf should not be confused with endangered animals in the rest of the world. It is extremely widespread throughout the world. The sad thing is that the Swedish Government does not seem to understand this fact. We cannot have a situation like today, with up to 700 wolf individuals, where we do not put people's security first. It is quite absurd that there are families who are afraid to let their children go out on the farm and play and that preschools are worried that wolves are walking by outside. Madam President, I would like I have been standing in this Chamber several times talking about the Värmland map. The reason for that is that it is a rather important and talking map. On that map not much is covered by vargrevir. It doesn't make sense to have it that way. We need to get this debate right in this area. In order to manage the common wolf population more effectively, there needs to be more action. Here, Minister after Minister, the question must be asked why we have these debates in this House. It's about people feeling insecure. How far will it have to go before you take this seriously and start listening to people living in rural areas? It won't take years. That's what you're supposed to do right now. I have asked Minister after Minister to come to Värmland, Gävleborg and Dalarna. Visit people who run sheep farms and live in the countryside with the wolf around the house. Listen and get in! Do it again, do it right! Do not give the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency a directive to raise the bar higher and higher. It will be an untenable situation. Nor do I think it is nice to sit and laugh at us Members of Parliament, who bring us messages into this House and bring out policies that mean a lot to people in everyday life. We need to be better able to do this, because these are important issues that are of great importance to rural areas.
i-YMU4cJizqoDksMMZDNAAqY	Madam President, I would like I did not understand that the minister answered my question about how sheep owners in Skåne should protect their sheep. A recent study from the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences concluded that if the wolf recolonises southern Sweden, the density of the area would be two to three times higher than the current territory in Central Sweden. These are very worrying figures. I very much hope that there is a strategy on how to protect both cattle and people and also game and hunting dogs from the wolf attacks. The Minister did not at all touch on my information about the County Administrative Board's proposal that farmers in Skåne should house their pastures. In Skåne there are 66 000 sheep, and they are located on an area of approximately 11 000 hectares. Surrounding such an area with fences would cost between SEK 300 million and 500 million, and the cost of electricity is not included. The electricity cost is sky high in Skåne due to the government's policy, which has made it both electricity shortage and huge prices for shows. The County Administrative Board grants SEK 50 in subsidies per metre of fence. I wonder: Where will Scanian farmers get the rest of the money to protect themselves from wolf?
i-UnwTreBaxRukJrWrhxRn4r	Madam President, I would like I haven't laughed, Marléne Lund Kopparklint. I don't want you to say it in the speaker's chair, because it's not the truth that agrees. I reacted strongly when Lars Beckman took a number completely out of the air and claimed that the Social Democrats want 700 wolves in Sweden. That's not true! That I'm reacting to it isn't very strange. No one has mocked – let us be clear on this point. It is, of course, an extremely serious issue for those people who live with wolves in their vicinity. That is why we should also be able to call for a reasonably serious debate in this House. We could at least agree that legislation should be complied with. What governs us today to have a reference value of 300 wolves in Sweden is the EU's directive on species and habitats. It's not a number that's taken out of the air. And if Marléne Lund Kopparklint had continued a little on the discussion she started, she also knows what the reason we landed at 300 wolves in 2015 was. When, on the basis of the proposal you are discussing, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency set the reference value at 270 wolves, i.e. the upper part of the range, we received strong criticism from, among other things, the European Commission. There was an updated scientific basis in 2015, which resulted in the need for 300 wolves for favourable conservation status in Sweden. I think it is incredibly important that we also make it clear that the wolf population naturally varies from year to year due to random variation, traffic-related mortality or natural mortality. That is why it is likely that, after years of very strong population growth and relatively low taxation, with sustainable regional and adaptive predator management, we will be able to allow an increase in hunting in the coming years. That's how it works. How many wolves are allowed to be shot off is not something that we decide in this pulpit, but it is determined where it is to be determined, close to the citizens, regionally, by the county administrative boards based on what it looks like in the respective local area. You know that. But what I did not get an answer to, to which I would really like, is how we can have a serious and fact-based discussion on the wolf issue. Is it the case that we need to look at whether it is possible to allow extended protection hunting, for example? It would be a serious discussion if it really is that it is the people out there that you are thinking about. Or, for that matter, is it the case that the moderate members of parliament think that the parliament and the government have to deal with the EU directives that exist? It would also be very interesting to find out. You can answer that instead of faltering in a way that is at all inconsistent with the truth and putting words and politics in my mouth that I have not said.
i-EXvMyaiTBWc5nbp2x2hjT7	Madam President, I would like The Minister is looking for a serious debate, and I am thinking: could it be more serious than the fact that we Moderates are actually asking us to follow the decisions that have been made? Otherwise, you have to have the opportunity to decide. After all, it cannot be delegated to anyone else without the delegation of this House. That is my question to the Minister, to whom I still do not have an answer. The Minister still refers to someone else having decided, but in fact it is the government that has rounded Sweden's highest decision-making assembly. Then we are in the European Union, and we are also part of the European Union. Then you have to be there and influence. Nor can one simply blame the European Union. If the Minister has too much on his agenda and is not able to go to Dalarna, Värmland or Gävleborg, it is enough to go to the county border here in Stockholm County – I can go with you. In other places in Sweden, as far down as in Skåne, to which Boriana Åberg refers, there are also very many worried. This has spread throughout Sweden. I talked to a breeder of Shetland ponies in my podcast, Horse Party podcast, about problems with having small horses near a vargrevir – Lars Beckman also talked about that. She had several dead horses in the pasture, but the County Administrative Board did not even want to go out and track. They referred to the horse probably biting itself to death. If you look at the picture you can see that it is not large broad horse teeth that have done the damage. This is not taken seriously. The wolves are now moving further south, to more densely populated areas. So what's the government plan? In fact, it is perceived that the government puts the wolf before man. Is that what Annika Strandhäll also stands here and says? Is she behind it?
i-Q8vw1ogMTkvvns41YcYGm7	Madam President, I would like Let me first be clear and answer the Government's question. The Moderates believe, and are seeking a mandate for, that we should have 170 wolves in Sweden. And we believe that man's living conditions must take precedence over the wolf. I think that is a clear and clear message. We are seeking a mandate to create a majority in Parliament and send a clear signal to the government that it is the lowest possible figure in Parliament that we have said – 170. The consequences of the predatory policy are so clear now. It's just like I said – what Strandhäll thinks is acting: On Wednesday night, hundreds of people gathered in Falun Square to highlight the problem of Social Democrats policy. The consequences of Strandhäll being satisfied with how it works today are that there will be about 700 wolves in Sweden after the puppy. It is an enormous attack on those living in rural areas. And it concerns hunters. Sometimes you say this: Yes, but it is good that there are more than hunters involved. I have no problem saying that hunters are also human. Even hunters must be able to stay in nature. And the cultural heritage of loose dog hunting must be able to exist. It is indecent that the state decides that there should be so much wolf that it is difficult to be a sheep farmer in Skåne, Gävleborg or elsewhere or to run horse high school in Hälsingland or to be a farmer in Kilafors. The least one could have asked is for those affected by predator pressure to receive full compensation, but I note that Strandhäll is not even trying to answer the questions about how sheep farmers in Skåne will be paid for the predator attacks. But there is a solution, and there is a new government this autumn, which will have a new policy.
i-EqQ9whJ9zMVJARXvSyF7MB	Madam President, I would like I sincerely hope that at some point this debate will come to a good end, in which the government realises that people's security must be given priority. That is the most important thing – that one should not have to experience the insecurity that one is experiencing today because the government is pursuing an unserious and unreasonable predatory policy. It is important that we get a new hunting and game conservation agency in place and that it takes over responsibility for these areas from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency in connection with a fundamental reform. Although the Riksdag decided that the concentration of wolf would decrease, there are more vargrevir today than when the decision was made – especially in my county, Värmland, which is Sweden's most remote county. The fact that Parliament's decisions are not followed by a reliable administration undermines confidence in Parliament's ability to deal with complex and controversial issues, as predatory policy is in fact. This is a development that shows that the government does not take any account of either parliamentary decisions or the people who live and work with the wolf's presence around the corner. Both wolf and other predators need to be adapted to the countryside and not the other way around. There will be more times when we will stand in this House and raise this issue. We will stand here until we see a result. We probably need to improve the government's knowledge and acceptance because people are worried around the country when they live with this around the corner.
i-VTaoKNXiqGudLbgLJMA47D	Madam President, I would like In other words, we will not be able to have a serious discussion with the Moderates on this issue. The Moderates claim that they would make a total of 170 wolves in Sweden, based on the gut feeling of the moderate MPs – not the facts and scientific basis when assessing the conservation status of wolf in Sweden. As we have scientific facts that show that we need 300 wolves for a favourable conservation status, this would mean for Swedish citizens and not least for Swedish hunters that we would put the whole possibility of protecting and licensing wolves at risk. A wolf from Russia or Finland needs to mate with a Swedish wolf every five years to meet the requirements to have protection and license hunting on wolves in Sweden at all. This is the Moderates prepared to put at risk if they come into government. Personally, I think it would have been much more tasteful if we had been able to discuss this issue seriously, for example the need for increased protection hunting. As far as Boriana Åberg's questions are concerned, the government has made changes to the wildlife damage regulation. We have removed the previous limit of maximum compensation of 80%. Full compensation is now being paid for the possible costs of this type of attack. I look forward to the next debate and hope that it will be more serious.
i-DawohpGjE9KrvKMdb6Ate5	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked me whether I intend to take decisions and measures in the near future to comply with the Climate Policy Council's recommendations and, if so, what. The answer to the question is yes. The government is constantly working on developing its policy to achieve the objectives of the climate policy framework, and the recommendations of the Climate Policy Council are important to us when developing climate policy. We will naturally make use of this year's processes, but I would also like to take this opportunity to remind you that the Council is directing its report to the whole of the policy. A social transition of this size can only be done in the long term and together, and broad political support and consensus are required. That is why I hope that opposition too will read this and accept it. The implementation of the Climate Action Plan has been the starting point for the Government's climate policy during its term of office. I am also pleased that the Council is now making the assessment that the Government's climate statement is now living up to the climate law. One reflection you can do, however, is that we live in a changing environment, where pandemics and government crises as well as wars in Sweden's immediate vicinity affect the conditions for implementing climate policy. I also note that the Council has seen the challenges posed by the parliamentary situation. The Climate Policy Council has identified governance as a key issue. We have reached the same conclusion, and the government has only a few weeks ago commissioned Statskontoret to analyse the authorities' responsibility in the field of climate policy. Statskontoret shall also, if necessary, make proposals for a better governance of the authorities' climate work. In order for Sweden to be attractive for green investments and for green jobs to become a reality, there needs to be enough people with the right skills in the labour market. This is why the government is carrying out, among other things, a upgrading of its expertise for the climate change transition and will allocate SEK 300 million to the investment during 2022 – 2024. Since 2014, the Council has also carried out the Knowledge Lift. Through the Knowledge Lift, we have provided funds that are estimated to correspond to nearly 160 000 places of study within the k omvux, y rkeshögskolan, folkhögskolan and the university. In February we also presented the new conversion study grant, which enables people to invest in conversion or skills development without having to worry about how the bills are to be paid. The Government has adopted a comprehensive electrification strategy and decided on sea plans for wind power that allow areas for energy extraction corresponding to cirk a 20-30 terawatt hours. At the same time, the State Authority has been tasked with identifying, together with other relevant authorities, appropriate areas to enable an additional 90 terawa thh of offshore electricity production. On the basis of the Swedish Energy Agency's documentation, the Swedish Maritime and Water Authority shall propose changes to the sea plans. Sweden's electricity consumption is currently at 140 terawatt hours per year. Sweden's ambitious climate and energy policy objectives, including the electricity certification system, have contributed to investments and expansion of wind power. Under already signed agreements, more than SEK 100 billion will be invested in wind power only during 2017 – 2023. The European market is the home market of Swedish companies, and EU rules and instruments are very important for business restructuring and competitiveness. Sweden has been the driving force in an ambitious European climate policy, strengthening the objectives of the EU climate law. Continued reform of the EU ETS is crucial to achieving the EU's climate targets, but we also need carrots that help in the transition. The EU has recently allocated substantial funds to seven cutting-edge projects. Two of these are in Sweden. The Government has fundamentally changed climate policy with the climate policy framework e.g. containing ambitious climate targets, the Climate Act and, not least, a climate policy council that monitors the work and examines that climate policy responds to the climate law and is in line with Parliament's objectives. The government has a high level of ambition and a climate policy that is integrated into all relevant parts of the government's policy, not least energy policy, transport policy and industrial policy. This has led to the emergence of the green industrial revolution. I share the climate policy Council's view that the pace of climate change needs to increase even more.
i-FC1w4WhxcLbMNMRFydsLqE	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Climate Action for the answer to my interpellation. We are in a climate emergency. The UN Panel on Climate Change has recently come up with two very shattering climate reports that point in a clear direction, and that is that we need more policies for a faster and more structured climate transition. Even though during the pandemic in Sweden we have seen quite substantial reductions in emissions, we see now that the pandemic is beginning to sound that emissions are rising very strongly. My picture, and also the image of the Climate Policy Council, is that the government is not doing enough. With the policy we have today, we will not achieve our climate targets. Madam President, I would like The World Wildlife Fund presented a report the other day where they had allowed Uppsala University to calculate how large emission reductions we need to make in Sweden to reach the Paris Agreement's 1.5 degree target. It was concluded that we need to reduce emissions by 21 percent annually – 21 percent annually! These are very strong emission reductions. We are not at all in step with that line, nor are we in step with other assessments. My first to Annika Strandhäll is therefore: Does the Minister for Climate Change think that we will reach our Swedish climate target of net zero emissions by 2045? Does the Minister of Climate Change believe that we will reach the transport sector target of reducing emissions by 70% by 2030? Madam President, I would like In order for us to achieve the objectives, we need, a little simplistic, two things. We need strong climate investments. We must ensure that private and public money flows go precisely towards reducing emissions. We also need regulations. We simply need to ban certain activities, we need to legislate and we need to adopt rules that quickly bring down our emissions. I'll start with the cash flows. With regard to climate investments, we heard in the reply from the Minister for Climate Change that there is a great deal of private and public investment going on. That's good. But we need to do more. One problem raised by the Climate Policy Council in the latest review report, but which they have actually addressed in all their reports since they began reviewing government policy, is the so-called fiscal framework. We have a fiscal framework that prevents the state from taking out loans to make large investments. As the Climate Policy Council proposes, we in the Left Party also want to change the fiscal framework, so that it will be possible for the state to take out loans in order to make large investments. We from the Left Party have, among other things, presented a climate programme for investments of SEK 700 billion, involving large investments in the transport sector, in energy, in industry and in behavioural changes to reduce emissions. Does the Minister of Climate Change intend to work towards changing the fiscal framework so that we can make greater climate investments? We also need to make regulations. And, Madam President, I will come back to this issue, which is extremely important, in the next speech.
i-XmBghYQYkCUBj8o78t4rnE	Madam President, I would like I thank Jens Holm for a very urgent interpellation. As the honourable Member may have noted, I concluded my interpellation response by just underlining the need to speed up. We are fully aware of that. With the policy decided and announced today, we will reach about half way where we need to reach 2045. So we are in complete agreement on that. At the same time, Jens Holm also heard that in my interpellation response I gave an outline of how much has happened in this area over the past seven eight years with the Climate Act and with the entire framework. Not least, we have also quadrupled our efforts in the field of climate and the environment since 2014. That is something that has been absolutely necessary for us to be where we are today, namely that we see that some of the major sectors of society are now seriously beginning to change. We are talking about industry, and we are talking about the transport sector, which accounts for one third of the emissions in Sweden. In fact, I feel very optimistic about the transport sector in particular and the conditions for achieving the 2030 targets in that sector – the government discussed it only yesterday – and we are seeing a very rapid development towards electrification, not least of the entire transport fleet. In March, 61 per cent of the new cars sold in Sweden were electric cars. And we are now building the charging infrastructure very powerfully throughout Sweden. I sat as late as this morning in a discussion at a meeting on how we should now cope with the increased electricity demand that we see throughout Sweden as a result of the green changeover. It is indeed a major social change that is at stake. There we are now also seeing how large and heavy emissions industries with new technologies are changing and becoming green and fossil-free. I therefore feel quite hopeful. But I am also aware that we will have to do more. With regard to continued investment for the green transition, I am convinced that it will be done without going into details of the fiscal framework. I am thinking of discussing this with the Minister for Finance. But the transformation in itself means that, in order for us to exploit the potential of the green industrial revolution, it will also require investment by the state, not least when it comes to the conversion of the entire electricity grid in Sweden. It is a Herculean task that lies ahead of us that we must cope with because it will bring with it exactly what we are looking for, namely clear steps towards Sweden becoming the world's first fossil-free welfare country. In conclusion, I would like to say that I think it is important that the ambitions of the Climate Policy Council's report be directed not only to the government but to the opposition and the parliament very much. The Parliament is currently making a series of rather short-term decisions which, if they were to become a reality, would put obstacles in the way of achieving the emissions targets. I am thinking not least of the reduction obligation, which is one of our most important tools.
i-UigXD56rtVRhBQB2n62pjs	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Climate Change is quite right that these recommendations from the Climate Policy Council are about all policy areas. And all policy areas need to move in step and work towards reducing our emissions. But even for a climate minister, I think it is very important to include the fiscal area in some way. If a climate minister does not actively push us to have large public investments in climate change, we lose a strong player in this context. The Climate Policy Council has long pointed out that we have a fiscal framework dealing with austerity of the economy rather than the need to expand the economy in terms of climate investment. Another issue raised by the Council is that we should set up a green climate investment bank, as has been done, for example, in the United Kingdom. And Denmark has set up a climate investment fund recently. It is also a way of mobilising public capital for climate investments. The Minister for Climate Change mentions the transport sector. It is incredibly important that we reduce emissions there quickly. I have to say, I'm rather worried. I am perhaps less hopeful, although it is positive that many electric cars, for example, are being bought. But ask anyone about the charging infrastructure, it's a huge challenge. The government has a system where you pay 50% to those who set up a charging pole. But there is no systematic expansion of the charging infrastructure. There is no national activation system and payment system for the charging poles. When you get to a charging pole you simply don't know if you can activate it and get the electricity you need. This needs to be addressed. The government really has to deal with infrastructure policy. On its table, the government now has a proposal for a new infrastructure plan for future infrastructure investments up to 2033 based on massive investments in new motorways. Then both the Climate Policy Council and the Environmental Protection Agency say: Don't build new motorways, because it will lead to increased motorism and increased emissions. What does the Minister of Climate Change think about the proposals to build these new motorways, such as the cross-connection Södertörn here in Stockholm, which will cost at least SEK 16 billion and lead to increased emissions? Is it good climate policy? I'd like to know. As far as transport is concerned, it is unfortunately the case that when travelling on the climate-smart train SJ and other train operators pay a kilometre tax. For every kilometre they drive people and goods by rail, they pay rail charges, while the trucks that drive on our roads do not pay a penny in the corresponding kilometre tax. Does the Minister for Climate Action intend to promote a charge on truck transport, so that it will be more beneficial to move goods from road to rail? That would be very good climate policy. Madam President, I would like I said at the outset that it is very important not only to invest but also to regulate. The Minister for Climate Change mentioned government control here. It is very important that we have authorities that go along with our climate targets. Now, for example, we have a defence force that actively discourages the expansion of new wind farms, and we have a transport board that requires increased rail infrastructure charges. We have AP funds that continue to invest in fossil fuels, and we have Trafikverket, Skogsstyrelsen, the Swedish Board of Agriculture, the Swedish Energy Agency and other authorities that do not go along with time. Does the Minister intend to promote new government instructions in which these authorities remain within the climate framework?
i-EvEM2YDoYNBjX1NandgyyE	Madam President, I would like Thanks for these recordings, Jens Holm! Let me be very clear: I think there is a need for major public investment in climate change. As Minister of Climate and Environment, I am of course looking with great interest at exactly what Jens Holm mentions, for example a green climate investment bank or a green climate investment fund. I think it would be just the right time to introduce something like that now that you see how the green transition really takes off. After all, we see what the transition brings in terms of the need to invest in public and welfare. Take northern Sweden, where new schools, infrastructure, preschools, schools, retirement homes and housing need to be built! It is also, of course, a question of enabling continued major investments in key climate action. These are issues we are constantly discussing in the government. We have a decision and a focus that is borne not least by our Prime Minister, namely that Sweden will lead the climate transition and that we will ensure that we bring home the new, green jobs. It will mean involving all the different parts of society, for this is a social transition. Perhaps the most important thing is precisely what the Climate Policy Council also points out, namely that there is broad clarity across all policy areas. In particular, there should be clarity in government management and in other ways, so that everyone simply pulls in the same direction. I remain very hopeful about the transport sector. The government adopted a large electrification strategy in early March. It contains massive investments in, among other things, the charging infrastructure. We have already, with the help of the political initiatives taken by the government, expanded with 64 000 charging poles. This is also something that needs to be done throughout the European Union. When it comes to the infrastructure and the future infrastructure bill, which is of course very exciting, I also expect rail, of course. I can see, however, that the way forward is the electrification of cars and of the entire transport fleet. In what way roads are needed for that, others will have to answer, quite simply, but that is at least the path I see before me – that we will ultimately have a fossil-free transport fleet. What I would also like to say something about is, of course, renewable energy. We have a goal set by Parliament, namely that we should have switched to a renewable energy system by 2040. Right now, there is a massive interest in investing not least in offshore wind power; we have investors in line. Both the large industries and their representatives, as well as the increased energy demand linked to the transformation of the transport fleet, show that this needs to be done at a rapid pace – but also that it is above all offshore wind power that will create those opportunities for us. We will have to spend a lot of time, focus and resources on ensuring that we can satisfy the energy needs we will see as a result of the green transition. Then, however, Jens Holm will be happy to answer how the Left Party stands up to the reduction obligation.
i-WJJ4oTiVMBCJrENydtGrdb	Madam President, I would like Then I'll start with the reduction obligation. The policy of the Left Party on the compulsory involvement of biofuels has always been that we are rather sceptical. Why? Well, the incredible involvement of biofuels that the government has advanced requires huge areas of forest or other growing land, which must then be used to produce fuel to power our cars. We've said that we'd be happy to have a reduction obligation, and we'd be happy to intervene, but not to the extent that the government has proposed. That is why we do not want the large volumes proposed by the government. On the other hand, we want to invest more in transport efficiency, i.e. moving transport from own cars and lorries to public transport and rail. Electrification is the right way to go, but remember, Annika Strandhäll: Although cars and trucks are driven on electricity on motorways, they will continue to tear up particles from the roadway. There will continue to be noise, and there will continue to be congestion. That is why it is so important that we do not build new motorways, but focus on what is called transport efficiency, that is, shifting transport from road to rail – and sometimes to shipping – in the case of freight transport. I therefore wonder whether in 2022 the Social Democrats are proposing to build new motorways at very high costs. It is money that should instead go to public transport and rail. When it comes to government instructions, Strandhäll mentions offshore wind power. It is incredibly important, but then we cannot have a defence force that opposes the expansion of each new wind farm. When will we receive new instructions to the Swedish Armed Forces and our other authorities so that they carry out an activity that works to achieve our climate goals instead of opposing them?
i-Reaok3Rtpe3MUHxqESJnVy	Madam President, I would like In conclusion, one can well say that Sweden right now is the proof that things happen if you invest in the climate, have frameworks and legislation in place to reset and stimulate the major emissions to switch to the new green technology and phase out the fossil. This can be seen when evaluating the last seven years and where we are today. I fully agree with Jens Holm that we have a lot to do and that we need to accelerate. Out of respect for our children and grandchildren and future generations, we must ensure that we are able to reverse and stop emissions. It's absolutely fundamental. What is still a privilege and so amazing now is that you feel that different parts of the social apparatus – business, politics and citizens – are pulling in the same direction. We see that the benefits of the green transition are beginning to emerge in terms of increased prosperity, more jobs and the demand for new skills. We see a new, modern and green folk home in Sweden, and that is the idea of the Social Democrats in the future. We are going to invest in this very thing. I am pleased to hear that Jens Holm and the Left also think that this is the right way to go. At the same time, I must point out that, time and again, it has been stressed that reduction obligation is one of our most important tools for reducing emissions. Starting to check with it is very unfortunate – and especially to do so together with Swedish democrats and Moderates, who want something quite different from having more public transport and moving transport to rail. Liera instead with those who really stand up for the climate, Jens Holm!
i-VHixx8H7LMKeq7GtxBhqPi	Madam President, I would like Staffan Eklöf has asked me what I and the government intend to do to reverse the negative development of Swedish agriculture and food production. We now have the most serious security policy situation since the Second World War, as a result of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. This creates considerable uncertainty and contributes to increased prices of inputs such as feed, energy and fuel. At the same time, the assessment remains that high settlement prices for most agricultural products compensate in part for the increased costs. In order to strengthen Sweden in this extraordinary situation, the government has announced measures in the short and long term aimed at both businesses and consumers. On 25 April, the government announced a crisis package of just over SEK 2 billion for agriculture in order to make it easier for farmers and greenhouse companies in the short term. The Government proposes a reinforced support to the animal sector of just under SEK 1.6 billion, an increased Norrland support of SEK 50 million and a retroactive refund of the diesel tax during the period 1 January 2022– 30 June 2023, which is estimated to be charged to the state budget by approximately SEK 400 million. In addition, an announced aid to agriculture of SEK 1.1 billion in increased reductions in diesel tax and aid to the livestock sector. With these proposals and the measures previously announced, the Government has presented a total of around 3.1 billion to support Swedish agriculture and professional fishing. These are important measures to continue to secure Swedish food production. I would like to emphasise the government's long-term efforts to strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish agriculture. This is done in line with the food strategy and the common agricultural policy. In total, three food strategy action plans have been decided. One is completed, and the two that are ongoing include operations that are decided for 2022 of approximately SEK 200 million. SEK 200 million annually is still estimated until 2025. The action plans include investments in research and innovation, regulatory simplification and skills provision. Within the framework of the food strategy, long-term investments are also made in Swedish food exports, which is an important tool for increasing competitiveness in the Swedish food chain. The design of the EU's common agricultural policy is an important tool for strengthening Swedish agriculture. In the next strategic plan for the common agricultural policy, the government has proposed that more than SEK 60 billion be set aside, and to that we add about SEK 4 billion in national measures relating to the entire programming period. Measures are also being taken at EU level to facilitate agriculture in this difficult situation. Among other things, the European Commission has taken a number of measures supported by the government: a temporary crisis framework for state aid up to 31 December 2022, a €500 million aid package, private storage aid for pigmeat to strengthen the pigmeat sector and a derogation from certain greening requirements of the common agricultural policy. It includes opening up for cultivation on organic focus areas with retained support. In summary, the government is working with a large number of measures in both the short and long term to strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish agriculture and food production.
i-FB5ZAUmHDW1ByhAawSKFSP	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. With this interpellation, I would like to debate the profitability and conditions of agriculture in the time of the cost crisis and not least after that. The debate has been postponed. This is sometimes the case – it is quite all right – but it may thus have a slightly different character, as the collective opposition has now pushed through and, the day before yesterday, decided in this House on a large number of improvements to the profitability and conditions of agriculture. It is about increasing the existing emergency aid for the pig and poultry sectors, as well as additional emergency aid for milk, beef and sheep farms. It's at least 11⁄2 billion. The government will actively pursue, at EU level, the introduction of a block exemption from state aid rules for the livestock sector. This could mean another SEK 11⁄2 billion. The Government shall act to enable farmers to use as much of their land as possible without prejudice to greening support. The government will also come back as soon as possible with proposals for a temporary derogation from EU state aid rules to support crop growing companies. There is a space of up to SEK 1 billion. The Government will develop a solution to be able to refund diesel tax retroactively from 1 January this year and extend the so-called Norrland support maximum during 2022. It is now important to emphasise that it is crucial that the Government acts swiftly to implement what the Riksdag has decided. The reliefs must not be too late. If any viewer believes that the cost situation of agriculture is a small issue for a limited number of people, I would like to say the following: The rise in food prices contributes to the rise in inflation, as does the high fuel prices. Increased inflation follows higher interest rates; yesterday the Riksbank quite rightly announced that the interest rate would be raised. Thus, the development of costs in agriculture and in fuels leads to higher prices of fuel, food and housing for citizens, including Södermalm. The consequences for our food readiness are obvious. For agriculture, it is also important to keep down inflation and interest rate increases, as many agricultural companies have large loans. So we're in a hurry. The second question of the profitability of agriculture is that of long-term profitability. Anyone who believes that the crises in agriculture have created the low profitability is wrong. On the contrary, it is the chronically low profitability that has made agriculture vulnerable. Swedish farmers' conditions of competition must be permanently made more equal to those of their competitors in other EU Member States. Temporary emergency packages are not enough to restore hope and confidence in the future, nor to create the economic margins that are missing today and that would have dampened the impact of this and other crises. Short-sightedness is part of the problem picture. The Minister's response refers to the food strategy for the long-term perspective, and certainly the food strategy contains many good initiatives, not least the establishment of interaction structures, such as Sweden Food Arena, research efforts and increased availability of new plant protection products. The point is that the delay in more money for farmers is long. The initiatives must be complemented by measures that permanently reduce the costs for Swedish farmers. There is much that is not realised when the cost situation is too high. It is not possible to make the same use of new technologies, new skilled workers or export channels if the calculation does not go together. In the light of what I have said, I wonder whether the government can reconsider and permanence some of the temporary efforts. Maybe the lower diesel tax? That's what it takes.
i-LAYu5ytVqZnAaRjRpx5hc4	Madam President, I would like This is not the first time that Staffan Eklöf and I have been standing here. I would like to remind Staffan Eklöf of the illegal invasion by Russia of Ukraine, which has created this. I would also like to remind the honourable Member of the dependence and vulnerabilities that we have been able to see after Russia's invasion of Ukraine, including dependence on diesel and other goods, such as fertilizers. Here it is extremely important that we do what the Social Democrats want and which the government stands for, that is, the climate change we need. We need to produce these inputs ourselves. It sounds almost like Staffan Eklöf and I share that view, but while the honourable Member prefers to reduce the tax on diesel permanently, I would rather be independent of that type of input. The proposals put forward by the government have been presented to the Swedish parliament because they are accurate and effective and because they can be implemented. The block exemption that the honourable Member is talking about, we tried by the government to drive down the EU. It is, of course, necessary for all countries to support the block exemption, and they did not do so at that meeting. Nor have we been told that there is any way forward in this. However, of course, we are always doing what the EU Council and others are telling us. We have tried to operate the block exemption. The package we present to support Swedish agriculture, because we also want to secure Swedish agriculture and strengthen Sweden, are measures that are feasible here and now. It is just as the honourable Member says: the high costs of agriculture need to be taken care of now, so that we secure this year's harvest, strengthen the agriculture that we have and strengthen the agriculture that we have in the short term. In the long term, we are working on the food strategy. We want to see increased food production, more Swedish farmers in Sweden and more Swedish food on a Swedish plate. It's not night black. In 2020 we saw an increase in the profitability of agriculture. We saw an increase in the profitability of food processing. We also saw an increase in trade. The food strategy has, of course, played a role – we see that profitability has increased at all stages. I wish there were more of us who spoke very well about Swedish agriculture as the future industry it is. If there is something we need every day, both me and the honourable Member, it is food. I think it is very good when we also choose Swedish food on our plate, because it is a way for us consumers to strengthen Swedish agriculture.
i-nWwmkj2uusWZZXKsEshF3	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to point out that I fully agree with the Minister that we should buy Swedish. It's good in many ways. I also agree that the crisis we have now is very special. It largely refers to the war in Ukraine and to the addictions that exist. But agriculture has been making progress for many years, not to say decades. There are political reasons for that. It has a completely different cost situation from the competitors in the rest of the EU. I would also like to comment on this with a permanent reduction in diesel tax. It shall apply until alternatives exist. Today, there are no alternatives that are economically viable. If biofuels are required today, it is equal to imports. About 90% of fuels are imported today. However, I saw the day before yesterday that there was news from Chalmers University of Technology about progress in cell factories. Forest materials can be used in a way that provides greater returns and lower costs in the future. It is not there today and will not be there next year, but it will be a few years. But then it can become competitive. It is good that the government does what Parliament wants. I assume that the government continues to try to get block exemptions through in various creative ways according to Parliament's wishes. We Swedish democrats have a completely different vision for Swedish agriculture. We are looking forward to a permanent reduction in costs that will allow a reasonable competitive situation for our farmers. Reduced costs provide greater opportunities, greater confidence in the future and more investment. This, in turn, provides higher profitability, giving even greater opportunities, confidence in the future and investment. This positive spiral also facilitates recruitment and generational shifts, which in turn drives the positive spiral further. We want to leave the current negative spiral that agriculture is in by investing properly and permanently in order to move into a positive spiral. If we do so, perhaps the current crisis for agriculture will be the last. Perhaps we do not need to discuss any more emergency packages in this House. That would be great! Instead, we get a growing industry, an increasing food production and a thriving rural environment. Does the Minister not want to follow the Swedish Democrats into this positive spiral?
i-SUAvJMS1sGozvGQt22Q4io	Madam President, I would like I am infinitely positive every day, I would like to tell the honourable Member. I can tell you that that is why we also put forward the strategic plan in the common agricultural policy. That is precisely what the honourable Member is talking about. It is about investing more in young farmers. It is about investing more in active agriculture. It is also about supporting the underlying competitiveness. That is where I and the honourable Member agree. We need a competitive and strong agriculture. We also need increased food production. We need to strengthen Sweden, and we simply need to ensure that you have the best conditions. That is also why we have the food strategy, on which we have had a great deal of agreement and which the Socialist Government produced. This is about increased food production. It is a question of conditions of competition and a reduction in the regulatory burden. It is about ensuring that we get in every way an agriculture that produces more and administers less, the honourable Member. Among other things, that is the purpose. We have done a lot of work in the food strategy action plans too. Several measures have been taken in the area of simplification. Already with the first action plan, measures were taken to improve the skills of food control. It was assigned to the Swedish Agriculture Agency, the Swedish Food Administration and the Swedish Growth Agency to develop digital services that contribute to simplified information. The focus was on guidance and service to companies in the food chain to make it easier to start up and run businesses and to facilitate their contacts with the authorities. In Action Plan two, significant efforts were made to simplify businesses in the food chain. For some central branches of the food chain, the Swedish Agency for Growth will create services for coherent guided processes. In trade plan two, it was also tasked to identify rules that impair the competitiveness, growth potential or innovation capacity of companies in the food chain. What is strong in the food strategy is that it concerns the whole chain, from the good products of agriculture to exports. We even saw that exports of Swedish food increased. We also saw that more people ate Swedish food during the pandemic; the trade has a label that says the food is Swedish. Now we see that it backs a bit when we have lunch at restaurants again. There's not as much Swedish food there. The government is therefore doing a great deal to strengthen the underlying competitiveness of agriculture. At the moment, agriculture is experiencing a crisis due to high prices of inputs. But this Social Democratic Government has taken responsibility – in the milk crisis, in the drought and in this crisis. That is exactly how a responsible government should act.
i-EZu1XdHDuccpCeAPxSieTT	Madam President, I would like The Minister talks about long-term measures and mentions the strategic plan. But then I remind myself that it lacks sufficient funds. Both the LRF and the Swedish Agriculture Agency say that there is a lack of 1 billion in order to meet the objectives of the food strategy. M, KD and SD have put that money into the next programming period, and we hope that the Social Democrats want to do the same. As I mentioned earlier, there are many good elements to the food strategy. What is missing is reduced costs. That would be the leverage that makes the food strategy effective. I would like to comment briefly on the profitability figures and the increased sales of Swedish meat. It may in part be a corona effect. We saw the profitability curves yesterday in committee. It was barely profitable. Finally, I note that we have not talked about the availability of fertilisers, which were part of the description of the problems in my interpellation. Sweden's dependence on the import of fertilizers had to be broken, which the Minister was a bit concerned with in the first speech. There are ideas close to application on how to use both nitrogen and phosphorus from sewage sludge safely and how to extract phosphorus from Swedish mines and mining waste. These efforts should be encouraged and supported. An obstacle is higher costs. This also applies to the production of fertilizers using fossil energy. Here, the solution is also to increase profitability in Swedish agriculture. This would create a greater ability to pay for our farmers, who are more attuned to the products. It allows for more options and encourages those who develop new methods for new fertilisers. This makes profitability a key factor. Is this enough for the Minister to want to make the cost reductions permanent?
i-8BzQD84d47W8zB9bGun8NW	Madam President, I would like I thank Staffan Eklöf for this important debate. I think I must remind the honourable Member that the competitiveness of Swedish agriculture also depends on what is paid for the product. We have seen higher settlement prices during this period. The farmer must have paid. The whole chain must be profitable, but then primary production must also be profitable. I agree with what the honourable Member has to say about dependency and vulnerability. It's very vulnerable. We have unhealthy dependence, for example on diesel, where we are in no way able to control the price, and the fertilizer, which we have largely traded where we no longer shop. As the honourable Member says, there are many good initiatives to be able to produce own manure. However, as the honourable Member also says, we are not there yet; it will take a little while. That's why we set up an investigation today on food preparedness. It will also look at the dependencies and vulnerabilities that Sweden has. It is not just about what you get paid for the products. It starts with the inputs to cope with them. Here we need to break the unhealthy addictions we have, because they create a vulnerability in Swedish food production.
i-RkYXBUXBWJrKeZnebJj667	Madam President, I would like Yasmine Eriksson has asked me whether I intend to promote an increased focus on the illegal introduction of dogs and how I view the risks of getting rabies into Sweden. Initially, I would like to mention that I also take very seriously the increase in illegally smuggled dogs that took place last year. It is illegal to smuggle animals into Sweden, and it is punishable to buy a smuggled animal. Unfortunately, however, it is not easy to tackle the problem. As long as there are buyers for the illegally introduced dogs, there are also incentives to continue smuggling dogs. If the market disappears and profitability also disappears the incentives for smuggling. The best thing a prospective dog owner can do is therefore to buy a dog that you are absolutely sure of has been bred and grown up under good conditions. The relevant authorities – the National Agricultural Agency, the National Veterinary Institute and the Swedish Customs Agency – are working to disseminate knowledge and information in different ways to support potential dog buyers. In order to strengthen the joint cooperation between public authorities in this area, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare launched a collaboration forum in 2020, where SVA, the Swedish Customs Agency, the Swedish Public Health Agency, the county administrative boards, regional infectious disease doctors and the Swedish Work Environment Agency are represented. Sweden has a good animal health situation and is free from several infections, including rabies. Of course, we want to continue to protect this. It is not uncommon for contraband dogs to have false health certificates and lack adequate protection against rabies. Rabies is a very serious and deadly disease that can affect both animals and humans. In order to prevent the spread of infection, rabies vaccination is therefore one of the most important requirements for bringing dogs into Sweden. The illegal trade in dogs is often accompanied by serious animal welfare problems. Dogs are bred, kept and transported under very bad conditions. In recent years, Customs' resources have been considerably strengthened. The Agency's funding has increased by 30 per cent between 2017 and 2021, which means that the number of employees has increased by approximately 350 people during the same period. The additional increases made by the Parliament's budget decisions for 2022 allow the Swedish Customs Agency to employ even more customs officials in order, among other things, to maintain border protection and strengthen the agency's law enforcement work. It is important that the issue of dog smuggling continues to be addressed, and I follow developments closely.
i-Wz2PmQJetcDjz7XoiGVeTL	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. I put this interpellation on the grounds that the illegal trade in dogs seems to be increasing, which is worrying from many points of view. We know that many of the dogs smuggled into Sweden are subjected to great suffering and that even the bitches in the puppy factories live in terrible conditions in an environment that is far from the animal welfare requirements we set in Sweden. It seems to have been after the arrival of the coronapandemine that we could see a much greater demand for pets, not least dogs. The high demand has made it difficult for our domestic breeders to meet it – a situation that criminals in both Sweden and other countries are taking full advantage of. But this has a price, and it is at the expense of the dogs. Not infrequently, the smuggled dogs come from pure puppy factories abroad where the dogs live under miserable conditions and do not get the care they need. Dogs are stored several at a time in cramped cages, and bitches are treated as cashiers with a single purpose: to produce as many puppies as possible in as short a time as possible. There have also been cases where the vocal cords of the tic have been destroyed so that they cannot bark and thus expose the criminal activity. The puppies are also taken too early from their mothers and have to travel hidden in crowded transports without being rested and many times without access to food and water. The smugglers too often manage to get into Sweden with the dogs, either because they have not been stuck in any control or because they have managed to get through customs with false papers on the dogs. Today, vaccination certificates are required, but when dogs are not vaccinated as they should, there is an imminent risk that they will bring along diseases such as rabies. Besides being able to become ill, they risk infecting other animals and even humans. That would be devastating, because rabies is a deadly disease where you only have a few weeks left to live if you get infected. And as I mentioned in the interpellation, about 60,000 people in the world die of rabies every year. Although Sweden is now declared free of rabies, we must fight daily to keep it that way, especially because we know that rabies exists in many of the countries from which many of the contraband dogs come. How does the Government view the rabies issue? I understand that she as well as I am concerned, but is there a readiness to deal with the possible spread of rabies in Sweden?
i-BzXhEvaPdC5y99vb7aKz4b	Madam President, I would like I certainly share Yasmine Eriksson's views on this way of dealing with animals. It is often organised crime that carries out this activity and to handle animals in this way is nowhere in line with our Swedish animal welfare legislation. It is also not in line with the animal welfare legislation that the EU has and will now tighten up. Here Sweden has been very proactive together with Denmark and Germany, for example, and worked hard to strengthen animal welfare throughout the EU. The introduction of rabies or other infections is not a desirable scenario. We've been out of it for a long time, and we're gonna keep doing that. This is precisely why the authorities are working on information measures, and the Swedish Customs Agency has got more employees to find this directly at the border. Despite this, what Yasmine Eriksson says is what he says. There have been dogs in Sweden. According to the Swedish Board of Agriculture's figures, 462 dogs arrived last year, and this was an increase from the previous year. This is something we are following and trying to remedy with the help of our authorities. In a campaign we try to tell people that we understand that they long for a dog but that they have to take responsibility and not buy a smuggled dog. The longing must not be so strong as to support criminal activities. There's a lot of punishment on this, too. The scale of penalties is harsh and strengthened in this House not long ago. I can only say, Madam President, that this is an issue that the government is working on in different ways. I share Yasmine Eriksson's view that this is a sad way of dealing with an animal.
i-3HrcdYeNLLfKbRL8yYgVYZ	Madam President, I would like If we now get rabies into Sweden through the unvaccinated dogs, it is often veterinarians who will be the first to discover that a dog is unvaccinated or perhaps affected by the virus. In yesterday's animal welfare debate, I heard my fellow Member tell me about a visit she had made to a veterinary clinic, where they are now considering whether to vaccinate against rabies because of the increased risk. I asked in my previous speech whether the government is prepared for a scenario in which rabies is being spread. For example, is there enough stock of rabies vaccines to scale up the vaccination, and could it be free of charge for those working with animals? If rabies is now found in an animal visiting a veterinarian, the veterinarian is required to report to the Swedish Board of Agriculture. However, if the veterinarian suspects that it is a contraband dog, there is no obligation to notify the police or other authority. And many veterinarians have even felt prevented from making a complaint because of confidentiality or because they are afraid to violate GDPR. The Swedish Democrats want to see an exception in the GDPR regulation for this very purpose, which the Minister's party did not support in yesterday's vote in Parliament. How does the Minister view the proposal? For despite a no-obligation in the GDPR regulation, we addressed a notice to the government to enable veterinarians to draw up a notification if they suspect smuggling crimes. How does the Minister view this? Will the Minister be sensitive to these veterinarians who devote their daily lives to helping animals but who encounter opposition through bureaucracy and regulations? Will the Minister make it easier for veterinarians to be part of the work to stop dog smuggling to Sweden? If we are to overcome this crime, we must find the perpetrators and prosecute the criminals. My hope is that one day we will get rid of the illegal dog smuggling. One problem that I have encountered is when the puppies that have been illegally introduced or to be introduced into Sweden are to be sold. This often happens at e-commerce sites. It may be difficult for a buyer to discern that it is a contraband dog. And if it is discovered, it may be difficult to find out who really is behind an advertisement and who is responsible for the sale. Therefore, requirements need to be made when advertising dogs, which ensure who is the actual seller. If you find that this is about the sale of contraband dogs, you can prosecute. Is this something that the Minister will work for in the future?
i-Cv3shg9eSGeMHrE1iEUdNo	Madam President, I would like As the honourable Member says, that debate was yesterday, and I am told that announcements have been made. I have not been able to handle these until today, but I will of course look at them as soon as they get to the department. As regards the possibility for veterinarians to report smuggling, there are provisions on confidentiality and confidentiality. However, they do not apply where the veterinarian is obliged to provide a statement in accordance with law or regulation. The Animal Welfare Act lays down such an obligation for veterinarians and other persons belonging to the group of animal health professionals. They shall notify the control authorities if they find reason to believe that an animal is not kept or managed in accordance with the Animal Welfare Act. However, as the honourable Member says, it is not possible to report only on suspicion that an animal has been introduced in breach of the rules of entry. You can't report that suspicion. But, of course, I will look at Parliament's announcements. The government has worked hard and wants to continue working hard on animal welfare. We have handed over what the Parliament debated yesterday. Although there were three announcements, the new Animal Welfare Act is proposed by the government. Animal welfare is something that the government really wants to strengthen and has strengthened.
i-DkMyTseHfSfbGu7ubhQMa9	Madam President, I would like As the Minister describes, much work is under way to deal with the risks of smuggled dogs. These efforts are likely to also increase the number of dogs stopped at the land border. In 2020, 294 dogs were stopped. Last year, the figure was not 400 dogs, as the Minister said, but 523, 86 of which were in such bad shape that they had to be put to sleep. 377 were rejected at the border and were denied access to Sweden. The Finnish Customs themselves say that it is very common when they have refused a transport that they still get to Sweden via another route, much because the Swedish Customs actually do not think they have enough resources to have staffing wherever it would be necessary. In addition, the 523 stopped dogs last year seem to be only a fraction of all dogs brought into Sweden. The County Administrative Board of Skåne carried out tests of animal transport last year to get a better estimate of how many dogs it actually is. Their estimate is that there are 10 000 – 15 000 dog transports to Sweden every year. There's an awful lot of them. Although efforts have been made at the Customs Agency, it is most likely not enough, but it is clear that we need more measures than those we have today to counter the criminal acts against animals. For example, a common EU dog register could be established. Is this something that the Minister for Rural Development will work for?
i-3QqwcKQfJ2Q3Q4tNUtz2PT	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Yasmine Eriksson, for your commitment to these issues! As I began with, I would like to make it clear that we have strengthened customs so that we can have more customs officials and deal with all kinds of smuggling already at the border. We've raised the penalties. It is punishable to smuggle or buy a smuggled animal, and the penalty scale for this is a fine or imprisonment for a maximum of two years. If the crime is serious, it is at least six months and a maximum of six years. It is therefore a matter of severe punishment. The authorities have also coordinated in order to disseminate the information that is important. It is about a buying and selling procedure in which many long for an animal, but one must also take responsibility so that one does not because of one's desire buy an animal that has suffered along the way because it has been smuggled into Sweden. It is therefore about several things that we do to both strengthen animal welfare and ensure that we do not bring infectious diseases to Sweden, for example rabies.
i-Ji3ZUy22JmKuesgpP3vEr	Madam President, I would like Jonas Andersson i Linghem has asked me questions about my visit to the Stockholm mosque in March and what measures I intend to take against Islamism. Let me begin by referring to what I said in the interpellation debate on 8 April 2022 with Jonas Andersson. Stockholm m oské is a member of the United Islamic Association of Sweden (F ifs ). All state-subsidised denominations must comply with the rules laid down in the Act on Support to Faith. The government has not been given indications that Fifs is in breach of the rules applicable to the state grant. My role as Minister of Culture includes visiting various activities to form an idea of the challenges faced by different sectors. As I mentioned in our previous debate, I have met representatives of Jews, Buddhists, Christians and Muslims to hear what opportunities they have to practice their religion in Sweden and what challenges they see. It is not always the case that we agree, but it is important for me to listen. I think that listening and having a dialogue with those who think differently will make you a better politician. Stockholm Mosque has a well-functioning cooperation with the Police Authority. I assume that if the mosque and its representatives were to be a hub for the violence-promoting Islamism in Sweden, the Police Authority and the Security Service would have taken action. We know this has happened at other mosques in Sweden, and I have great confidence in the judicial authorities.
i-FwLoKF7cR7McZMCtKzrBYU	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for Culture for his response to the interpellation here today. That, in itself, was a brief answer to the questions I asked. Some questions unfortunately the Minister avoided answering. For example, my question as to what political issues were discussed during my visit to the Stockholm mosque did not answer at all. It also seems that in his interpellation response the Minister has missed what I asked for in the interpellation. I can begin by saying that I have not claimed in my interpellation that the Stockholm Mosque is a hub for violent Islamism, although I cannot rule it out either. On the other hand, I have claimed that the mosque is linked to other Islamism and, more specifically, to the Islamic network of the Muslim Brotherhood. Islamism is always a problem, not only when it is violent. I very much hope that the Minister for Culture also agrees with that. There are associations and people in Sweden who want to introduce Islamic special legislation and the like on the parliamentary path. We see this not least in the new Party of Nyans, which has received some media attention lately. This could involve running your own schools and health care facilities and having different types of special legislation. We now see how there is a call for restricted freedom of expression, blasphemy laws and a ban on Koran burning after Easter weekend's Koran riots. With Islamism, it is not only the methods that are the problem, but it is also the end goal that we want to achieve. Madam President, I would like The Minister of Culture recently attended a study visit to the Stockholm mosque. Nor do I find it strange that, as the minister responsible, people have dialogue with religious communities of different orientations or meet with different sections of civil society. It's perfectly reasonable, in general. But of course it matters which communities and which organisations they cooperate with and which they legitimise. Stockholm's mosque has long been pointed out to be linked precisely to the Islamic work Muslim Brotherhood. The Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency, MSB, has ordered several reports indicating the Stockholm mosque for these connections. Such a report is known as the Muslim Brotherhood in Sweden. It's from 2016. I'm going to quote a little from it. Today, the Stockholm mosque at Björn's garden is the most famous MB institution in Sweden. Perhaps it can be regarded as a headquarters for the movement. Here, a variety of organisations are connected to MB. Over the years, the activists in the mosque have managed to build up a state of government in which they are consulted on issues relating to Islam and Muslims in general. ..................................................... There is also another report that has been commissioned and funded by MSB that highlights the problem of the Stockholm mosque. This is the report on Islamic activism in a multicultural context: ideological continuity or change? Among other things, they write about a person named Mahmoud Aldebe as a person connected to the Muslim Brotherhood through the Stockholm mosque. He is a former center party candidate for parliament who has made himself known for very straightforward statements in public about introducing Islamic special legislation. What I am thinking now is: Does the Minister see any problem with being involved in legitimising and interacting with mosques that in reports ordered by Swedish authorities are pointed out to have this kind of connection? Does the Minister not trust the Swedish authorities and the reports they have ordered in this case? Or was it that the minister didn't know the connections simply?
i-W27hm8a2brserTNFAvpfpD	Madam President, I would like I will begin by answering what Jonas Andersson concluded by asking: whether I did not have an eye on the investigations or whether I might not have taken it to heart. There I want to be very clear. I will also repeat what I said at the outset. The Stockholm mosque is part of the state-subsidised religion Fifs. As far as I know, the government has not received signals that Fifs is acting in breach of this acquis. It must be the basic thing when I meet different denominations in the same way. I can also say that I am not the first minister to visit the Stockholm mosque. Fredrik Reinfeldt, Göran Hägglund, Gustav Fridolin and my predecessor Alice Bah Kuhnke have done so. The list can be made long. Neither these people nor I have visited the mosque to negotiate politics with the Muslim Brotherhood. That might answer the honourable Member's question about what we were talking about. It was by no means a common meeting of faith to hear and listen about their opportunities and difficulties. I have not visited the mosque for anything other than that, although Jonas Andersson seems to believe this. For me as Minister of Culture, the issue of democracy is present in all the decisions I make. My work is based on a fundamental conception of man's freedom to be himself, to live as he pleases, to believe in what he wants and to love whom he wants. I also want to be very clear with Jonas Andersson. In Sweden, freedom of religion prevails. Every citizen is free to belong to a community of faith or to renounce the right that he pleases. It is a human right that I will defend until my last breath. To deliberately confuse the cards in order to try to put a picture of religious automatically being extremists is nothing more than shameful. The social democracy's idea of equality and equality is in sharp opposition to Islamism's idea of a society governed by religious rules, which Jonas Andersson does not seem to believe. When it comes to schools, Jonas Andersson also referred to schools run by Islamists. I also want to capture that and be very clear about that. We Social Democrats have long wanted to regulate religious free schools. Recently, the government has referred a proposal for a ban on the establishment of secular schools. We want to take back democratic control of schools.
i-BQYe3ffbUq6FonKikWRoqk	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking the Minister for Culture for his answer. The Minister of Culture mentioned at the outset that she is not the first member of the government to visit this mosque linked to Islamists. It doesn't actually do anything better, Jeanette Gustafsdotter, but it only makes it worse. Two wrongs don't make a right, as you say. Let me also comment on what is shameful. It is not me who mixes up the cards here, but the Minister of Culture has actually been in the mosque that has these connections. What is shameful, of course, is that government representatives agree with this and legitimise this type of ideological orientation. Islamism is legitimised, and that is the problem. It is important to clarify which issues have been discussed. The Minister has said here before that it was just an ordinary meeting and so on, like it was any meeting. However, some attention has been drawn to social media, and the mosque itself has written about the meeting. They have mentioned, for example, that they have talked about media drifts against Muslim organisations and the care of children, etc. That's what you can read about. Mosque has a Facebook page where they write both in Swedish and in Arabic about the visit, and it is a little different information depending on whether you read the Swedish or the Arabic text. In the Arabic part, this is precisely the case with the care of children, but this is not the case in the Swedish language. In view of the disinformation campaign that we have seen directed against Sweden from Islamic forces regarding social services – which it certainly sounds like people have talked about in some sense – it is of course important that we find out what has actually been said about this. After all, I assume in this case that the mosque has not made up the idea that this should have been discussed with the Minister for Culture. Now that we have seen the very violent and unpleasant Koran riots that have hit many of our Swedish cities, including the area Skäggetorp in Linköping municipality, where I live, it is more important than ever that we really make sure that we do not legitimise the Islamic forces. This also applies to the calls for us to introduce various types of Islamic blasphemy laws that have been hailed afterwards. I would like to know if it is true that the Minister of Culture, together with the mosque, has discussed media dredger against Muslim organisations and child care. Of course, it is of interest to know whether the disinformation campaign has been discussed together with an Islamist-linked mosque. I would also like to ask whether the Minister really thinks it appropriate to discuss this type of issue with Islamist-linked mosques.
i-U6zWWzHQ67EWgyDsXr5FAC	Madam President, I would like That I legitimise extremism, as Jonas Andersson says, I would like to begin by responding. It's a direct lie. The government is and has been clear in all criticism of all forms of extremism. Violent Islamism is a problem, and the government has taken a number of measures to tackle it. I was going to come back to them very soon, but at the risk of being otherwise perceived as unclear when it comes to my answers, I would still like to link back to the question that Jonas Andersson asked: Have we discussed one or the other? He refers to a Facebook page. As Jonas Andersson knows, there is a risk that others will not stick to what is actually the truth of what they write. No, we have not discussed what Jonas Andersson points to. Next time I urge you to visit the mosque and talk to them on the spot to see what is said and what is not said. I think it is extremely serious to point out that the visit of politicians is something that makes things more serious, that is, that various politicians have sought a community of faith to listen to opportunities and difficulties for that very community of faith, just as when you meet other religions. I think that the fact that elected politicians are making study visits is something that only strengthens our democracy, and nothing else. Then you also listen to the citizens. I also encourage Jonas Andersson to do so. However, I would like to take this opportunity to tell you what we have done so that we are not accused of supporting extremism. Because I want to be clear about this once again: the government does not, and the Social Democrats do not. In 2017, the government commissioned Brå, among other things, to establish a national centre against violent extremism, CVE. It was established on 1 January 2018. The Government has five focus areas for its preventive work. CVE is the first and most important of these. National coordination is needed to both support municipalities and to support and coordinate all actors who need to be on the same path in order to push back all forms of violent extremism. It is an extensive piece of work that I am proud of. While I am still saying what we have done: as Jonas Andersson knows, an investigation has been developed, and work is under way on a bill right now to get to grips with any undue support that is distributed to religious communities or parts of civil society that are not democratic. We hope to be able to present it as a legislative proposal, that is, as a proposal, before the elections.
i-Es1V1aN9uCxaipLSMEx1j8	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say to the Minister for Culture that I am happy to visit religious communities and that I have done so many times. However, unlike the Minister, I am not going to visit any religious communities linked to Islamism. I have never done that, and neither am I intending to. It is interesting that we are now hearing from Jeanette Gustafsdotter that she and the mosque have completely different views on what to have talked about in this Islamist-connected environment. Here it is said that we have not talked about, for example, the disinformation campaign on child care and the like. But it says the mosque has been done. So there are different views on this, and I think that is an interesting part. I also find it difficult to deny that it is representatives of the Islamic Brotherhood Network that the Minister and the Social Democratic Government have met during the visit. I am referring not only to links that the mosque has according to outsiders, according to researchers and according to reports commissioned by MSB, but also to people whom the Minister himself met during the visit and who are shown in pictures from there have previously told the media themselves that they have these connections. In an article in Today's ETC from June 2013, the imam Mahmoud Khalfi says: Yes, it is no secret that we have links to the Brotherhood. We choose it as a direction. However, it is not the case that we are getting directives from Morocco or Egypt on what to do. We are an independent organisation in Sweden. What is wrong is that the Brotherhood has been blacked out as terrorists in the media. Now that representatives whom the Minister has met themselves tell us that they have these connections, I wonder how the Minister views this. She denied here earlier that she would have met the Muslim Brotherhood, but people she has obviously met say themselves that they have this connection. How's it going, Jeanette Gustafsdotter?
i-NeEV17jDTUhNZgQrFbovZd	Madam President, I would like Jonas Andersson says that he likes to visit religious communities but that he does not intend to visit the mosque. I find that very sad, because then he could ask this question and perhaps also take part in the values of this very community of faith in different ways. To make connections between visiting the mosque and supporting Islamism or the Muslim Brotherhood is actually to make conspiratorial connections, and such connections are made only in conspiratorial forums – and apparently also in Jonas Andersson's head. So that is not the case. Let me conclude this debate with a clear message: we must be able to do two things at once. We must vigorously combat violent extremism, whether political or religious. The government has presented a number of initiatives in this area, and in my area it is mainly about no tax funds going to organisations that counteract the values on which our country is based. I think it is a wise policy to combat violent Islamism and, at the same time, to have a dialogue with the part of Muslim civil society that meets the demands made. Sweden is a prosperous democracy where several different religions fit and can coexist. I'm proud of that.
i-4vsSfqf77R3Mb5Tp5GWB1y	Madam President, I would like Pontus Andersson has asked me about my view and the government's view of organisations related to the Muslim Brotherhood. Let me begin by stating that I and the government are opposed to all forms of extremism, whether politically or religiously motivated. Not a tax crown should go to anti-democratic organisations. The Social Democratic Government is in no way ally with Islamic organisations. The Islamic ideology of a state governed by religious writings is in stark contrast with the Social Democratic ideology of an equal society. The democratic condition that exists today is now to be tightened up, in order to further clarify the current regulatory framework and also to be able to refuse previous beneficiary organisations state subsidies in case it violates the principles of providing them with support. The government is therefore planning to submit a bill to the Riksdag before the elections, where new democracy conditions for support to the religious communities and the rest of civil society are presented. It is important to have clear, legally secure and uniform democracy conditions on the ground. We need to ensure that authorities and organisations that allocate support to civil society have well-functioning tools to prevent funds going to activities that are not compatible with the fundamental values of society.
i-6GCyW2iANzGekhf9a8eZgi	Madam President, I would like Well, it has long been known that the Social Democrats have a strong relationship with Islamist movements. This was perhaps most evident when the party elected Omar Mustafa on the party board, a place he was then allowed to leave when his previous history was noted, that is, during his time as chairman of the Islamic League he invited anti-Semitic speakers. After his resignation from the Social Democrats, he instead took the step into Ibn Rushd. Magnus Norell's report The Muslim Brotherhood in Sweden, which was written on behalf of MSB, The Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency, points out four organisations that the Muslim Brotherhood started in Sweden. These are Islamic Relief, Islamic League of Sweden, Sweden's Young Muslims and previously mentioned Ibn Rushd. Common to these organisations is not only that they are working to apply for different types of municipal and state grants and that they support the same orientation of Islam but also that the same people move between top-level societies within these organisations. Since municipal and state grants continue to be paid out to organisations linked to the Muslim Brotherhood and the government does not act on the matter, the government's relationship with the aforementioned organisations is constantly up-to-date. At local level, we see the same trends as at national level. When, for example, the Social Democrats were to speak in Helsingborg's mosque before the 2018 elections, their female parliament was not allowed to lead towards sitting among the men. The association has had Anas Khalifa as a lecturer while he was active in Salafism and had as late as February the local spokesperson of the Party Nyan as a lecturer in the mosque. Despite the knowledge of this, there are peaks from the Social Democrats in place and both opening speeches and taking the first shovel for a mosque whose funding is unclear, this as late as 26 March this year. Since 2010, at least two terrorist acts related to Islamism have been carried out in Sweden. During the civil war in Syria, Swedish citizens committed war crimes, and another was convicted of a terrorist attack in Brussels. At the same time, Sweden was the country with the most IS passengers per capita in the whole Western world. The problems of Islamism have been known for a long time, but despite this, payments to extreme organisations continue. And despite the knowledge of the aforementioned things at both national and local level, the Social Democrats continue to pay contributions to organisations linked to the Muslim Brotherhood. They continue to grant building permits and give permission for prayer eutropic despite extreme links, thus legitimising the organisations in question. Against this background, I would therefore like to put the question again to the Minister for Culture: are the Minister and the Government prepared to reconsider their views on organisations linked to the Muslim Brotherhood?
i-5iabHwEJrqjYV5cX9fponY	Madam President, I would like I would like to continue where Pontus Andersson left off. That is a very topical subject that my colleague is raising here today. I was up myself and had a little debate about Islamism with the Minister of Culture earlier. I was going to come in on the Koran riots that we have seen in Sweden and that ravaged our country during the Easter weekend. Whole neighborhoods have been broken down, cars have been burned up and stonings against the police have occurred where entire families have participated. This happened, among other things, in my municipality of residence Linköping, in the district of Skäggetorp. I visited Skäggetorp shortly after this together with Jimmie Åkesson. This is a situation for which the policies of the Social Democrats have laid the foundations for a very long time. There has been an extreme policy of fragmentation and an extremely irresponsible migration policy that has enabled us to have and build these tensions into Swedish society. Now there was a person who wanted to burn a book, in this case the Koran. It is certainly sacred to many Muslims, but we still have freedom of expression in Sweden. Now we see that people in a number of different districts around Sweden – in Linköping, Norrköping, Örebro and so on – are prepared to go to full attack and try to murder our police officers, smash entire districts and burn up cars. That is where we are now, with the policy of the Social Democrats. Now that we have seen these violent Koran riots around Sweden, and when we have also seen that the shouts are hailing for various blasphemy laws and limited opportunities to demonstrate, we can state that we have a problem. This threatens our Swedish freedom of expression, the Minister for Culture. What I wonder is: What will the Minister of Culture do within the framework of his mission to ensure that Swedish freedom of expression prevails throughout Sweden without exception?
i-NBUxuzyWVaKbr4vfjLNfnV	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by responding to Jonas Andersson's speech. What Jonas Andersson points out during the Easter weekend, that is, the uprising led by extremists, is totally unacceptable. The Socialist Government has pointed this out several times, and I am happy to do so again: what happened there – the violence, the attack, the uprising – is totally unacceptable. It's not about freedom of speech. Here I think that Jonas Andersson confuses the cards. It is about something that we have absolutely never supported. It is extremism, and it is something that we have repeatedly been very clear about is unacceptable. I would go back to replying to Pontus Andersson now because it is Pontus who has put this particular interpellation. During the previous interpellation debate, Jonas Andersson and I discussed some of the issues raised by Jonas Andersson. Pontus, you mentioned as one of your examples Mustafa who was a Member of Parliament. As you probably also know, he left the Social Democrats almost ten years ago. I think you should clean up your own door before you start accusing other parties of links to extreme environments. While we are on the subject, my question to the honourable Member is this: are the Swedish Democrats prepared to settle their current links with extremist organisations? As late as November last year, the Swedish Democrats had an official in the Parliament of Parliament, in this building, who was a member of a white power organisation. In April 2021, less than a year ago, one of your municipal politicians in Uppsala became chief editor of a newspaper linked to right-wing extremism, and as recently as a month ago you had a Member of Parliament who spread Russian propaganda to legitimise the terrible attack war raging in Ukraine. Here we can talk about anti-democratic activities in your own parliamentary group. Pontus Andersson also mentioned that we Social Democrats are distributing aid, which Pontus Andersson considers to be incorrect, in various municipalities and regions. Here I would like to stress very strongly that the government cannot and should not govern the funding of municipalities and regions. Municipal self-government means that municipalities and regions themselves choose what their contribution should be. What we can do is offer support at work, and so have we. Among other things, we have developed a guide for administrators that the Democracy Condition Investigation has developed as part of its investigation work. I can recommend Pontus Andersson to read it. I can also state once again that the Social Democracy and the Muslim Brotherhood are not cooperating. There is something in Pontus Andersson's head that does not match the truth.
i-2ZWMxFpeC4XXuQVGFK5M2B	Nevertheless, I must give a little reminder of the speech in this House. According to the Swedish parliamentary practice, the speaker formally addresses his speech directly to the President and thus indirectly to the Members of the House. Simply put, this means that the members of Parliament talk about each other and not to each other. Members speak to the President and tell him what they think on various issues. A Member who speaks of another speaker in a debate by responding to an argument should use the speaker's first and last name. This means that direct appeal between the speakers – to say, for example, you or you to each other – should not occur.
i-GQBP3bHyVSH8uvWgYzUvcg	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the information. The Minister for Culture is making a number of accusations about people in my party who have extremist links. As far as I know, they're not in my party anymore. Perhaps that is what separates my party from that of the Minister for Culture, that we deal with the connections that have existed. The Minister for Culture continues, for obvious reasons, to deny the Social Democrats' links to Islamism, and I can understand that the Minister for Culture wants to do so. The Minister said in his first speech that the Islamic ideology of a state governed by religious writings is in stark contrast with the Social Democratic ideology of an equal society. All right, but then one might ask: Why did the Social Democrats select an Islamist on their party board? Why is a person for the Social Democrats sitting in the Riksdag who has participated in demonstrations related to Hamas? Why did Stefan Löfven call Islamist al-al-Fatah a dear sister party? Why does the Minister of Culture visit Stockholm's mosque and talk to a person who has explicitly said that he has links to the Muslim Brotherhood? If we are now striving for an equal society, why are the Social Democrats talking at a mosque that has not allowed their own Member of Parliament to sit among the men in the mosque? Why have the social democrats at municipal level never voted against a mosque building where villain states have been financiers? Why do the Social Democrats still want Islamists to be allowed to conduct school activities? Why did the Social Democrats just yesterday vote against banning cousin marriage? Why have the Social Democrats never voted against stopping the payment of subsidies to Ibn Rushd despite their links with the Muslim Brotherhood? Madam President, I would like It'll be almost a bit of a parody if I go on like this... because I can go on forever. It is clear that although the Minister for Culture believes that Islamism is in stark contrast with Social Democratic ideology, we are constantly seeing new links and new adjustments. It will be very difficult to take the Social Democrats seriously on these issues. Certainly, the Minister of Culture can continue to deny these links and set up new investigations or introduce new democratic conditions, but not once have the Social Democrats, for example, stopped payments to Ibn Rushd, despite the fact that MSB has pointed out in more than one report the links to extreme Islamism. There is no need to investigate this further. The facts are on the table. The facts are here. Why should you trust something to happen now? Does the Minister of Culture not understand that both we in the opposition and those who listen to this debate find it difficult to take the words of the Minister for Culture seriously?
i-Do8nMatbbHZgLeFurYF7QG	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Culture for his answer earlier. I asked you a few questions about the Koran riots that we have seen in Sweden and that have shaken our country after the Social Democrats have had to enforce their extreme migration policy that has led to us having these tensions in our society. I was going to continue with, on the issue of freedom of expression, something that I read on the Government Office's website. On Jeanette Gustafsdotter's side, you can read the following:"The freedom of expression is the cornerstone of democracy and must be protected. Threats and hatred of the free word are unacceptable and freedom of art must be defended at every moment. ..................................................... That sounds good to me. But I wonder, speaking of the Koran riots: how will the Minister now work to secure Swedish freedom of expression when we see that it is threatened by Islamic forces? Whole families with children had almost as family activity to stand and throw stones at the police. There were over a hundred wounded police officers. It's like the attempted murder of our cops that we've seen. We have seen that cars have been set on fire and destroyed entire districts. You destroy both for the others, law-abiding, the people who live in these districts and for all of us who live in Sweden. Now, if ever, it is very important for the Minister of Culture to ensure that freedom of expression is truly strengthened, as we now see this Islamic threat to it. Therefore, I wonder, and I would very much like to have an answer to my question: how will the Minister work to ensure that Swedish freedom of expression prevails throughout Sweden without exception?
i-MxqwNRZG9hCULnkvNqUeV5	Madam President, I would like I should like to begin by apologising for breaking the rules, as the President pointed out. I became so involved in the debate that I lost my way. So I really want to start by apologizing for that. These are such important questions that I lost my way a little bit. Pontus Andersson once again pointed to former Members of Parliament and took it as an example. It was ten years since that Member left the Social Democratic Party and ended up as a Member of Parliament. I think we should leave it there. However, the examples I mentioned, to which Pontus Andersson also referred in his speech, were from the near future. Let us turn to the question that Pontus Andersson raised with regard to schools. I would like to make it clear that we Social Democrats have long wanted to regulate religious free schools. Recently, the government has referred a proposal to stop the establishment of secular schools, and we want to take back democratic control of schools. I would also like to respond to what Pontus Andersson mentioned about Ibn Rushd. I want to be very clear that the government should not have views on decisions made by an individual municipality within its area of competence. I have also noted that the decision taken by the Social Welfare Board in Gothenburg to refuse Ibn Rushd's contribution has been appealed by Ibn Rushd to the Administrative Court. I welcome the fact that the issue is being examined in court. That is exactly how it should be done according to democratic order. Jonas Andersson asked me a question about what I should do to deal with possible threats to freedom of expression with reference to the riots that occurred during the Easter weekend. I would like to emphasise once again that the violence and riot that followed that weekend was totally unacceptable. That is something we absolutely do not accept. With regard to freedom of expression and what we should do to strengthen it, I would like to inform you that we have the world's strongest freedom of expression. I'm basically a media lawyer. The Freedom of the Press Regulation, which came already in 1766, gives us the world's strongest freedom of expression. We also have the Freedom of Expression Act and the form of government. I therefore feel confident that we have strong freedom of expression. What happened during the Easter weekend was not about freedom of expression; it was something completely different. All forms of extremism, whether politically or religiously motivated, are a problem and must be vigorously combated. The forces that work with violence or peace to build a parallel society must be countered. In Sweden, Swedish laws apply, and there we have the world's strongest freedom of expression.
i-CMNXfu11LDnkbHLxC6RpKe	Madam President, I would like I would like to make a correction to the Minister for Culture. I have not said that Omar Mustafa was in the parliament of the Social Democrats, but he was on the party board. He was given that place during the time he was president of the Islamic League. After that he went to Ibn Rushd. The Minister of Culture seemed to want the connections to be some kind of conspiracy theory. In the debate with Jonas Andersson, she called it a conspiratorial forum. But the links that exist are mentioned in MSB's report Muslim Brotherhood in Sweden. This is a Swedish authority and not a conspiratorial forum. Their words should be taken seriously. I don't think the Minister of Culture and I are going much further than this. Let me give you a brief summary. The Minister for Culture opened the debate by stating that the government is opposed to all forms of extremism. Nevertheless, a current Member of Parliament is running on demonstrations with Hamas connections. Another opening speech of associations that have invited Salafists. The Minister of Culture then said that a tax crown should not go to anti-democratic organisations. Nevertheless, Islamists are allowed to continue to run schools now, and associations that, according to MSB, have links to the Muslim Brotherhood receive continued funding. I therefore believe that the Minister for Culture is not credible on these issues.
i-HpCJq4bQFqWjY6Emkf2Cow	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Pontus Andersson, for the initial correction! With regard to visits to the Stockholm Mosque, I would like to emphasise once again that it was a visit by several religious communities. This is done as Minister of Culture, and I intend to continue to do so. To clarify, it was not a visit to the Muslim Brotherhood. Finally, let me be clear. Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson has commissioned all ministers to turn every stone to fight crime. For example, in my role as Minister of Culture, this means continuing work on the conditions of democracy. Not a crown should go to violent extremists or anti-democratic movements. That is why it is important to have legally secure and well-functioning democracy conditions in place. At the same time, I obviously need to point out that the vast majority of Swedes who have a Muslim cultural background have no problems with being Muslims and being law-abiding Swedish citizens. There is no contradiction between being a Muslim and being a democrat, no matter what the Swedish Democrats insinuate. The government works to counteract in various ways the currents, whether religious or political, that want to build parallel societies. A political Islam that wants to overthrow society has no place in Sweden of the Social Democrats.
