i-GC7fQQCeRjeyjbsTwCHn8t	Mr. Old President! I think I speak for all the participants here in the debate and for all those who now listen when I say that our thoughts go to Ukraine and its people. It may seem silly to stand here and debate a motion report when so many people are in such great difficulty, but it is an important part of the way we show support and resist. That is part of what we are going to do, namely to honour democracy by maintaining our work here in Parliament. Mr. Old President! The KU30 is a motion report on constitutional issues. Here are motions for questions concerning, among other things, government, certain succession regulations and apenaget. There are calls for membership of the EU and for democracy to be revitalised. It also deals with claims relating to the formation of a government, a constitutional court, the review of standards and the independence of the courts. Other claims relate to crisis legislation, public ownership, public service and the tasks of the National Audit Office. The Moderates have several reservations, but I only support reservation 8. Mr. Old President! Sweden's constitutions form the basis of our social contract. The Moderates have previously advocated that an investigation should be set up during this term of office to consider a series of reinforcements of constitutional protection, both as regards the individual's rights and freedoms vis-à-vis the state and the municipality, and as regards the Swedish rule of law and democracy in general, particularly in view of the fact that at the beginning of the term of office it was 15 years since the last constitutional investigation was set up. The 2010 constitutional reform strengthened the constitutional independence of the Swedish courts. The reform was decided in agreement between the parliamentary parties and created a solid basis for the courts to carry out their judicial tasks without the influence of the wishes and expectations of the political power. However, following the entry into force of the constitutional reform, we see negative developments across Europe. Authoritarian parties have moved forward their positions in several parts of Europe. In Poland, the executive and legislative bodies have been systematically given the opportunity to influence the composition, powers and functioning of the judiciary at political level. A similar development, in which governments are pushing the principles of liberal democracy, can also be seen in Hungary and Romania, among others. The independence of Swedish courts is not directly threatened by authoritarian forces in other countries, and there is no imminent national threat in Sweden. However, the examples show what can happen to a country's judiciary when it obtains a political majority that does not respect the principles of the rule of law. It is therefore also important for a democratic rule of law such as Sweden to have a regulatory framework that makes it as difficult as possible for an authoritarian regime to take political control over the judiciary in the future, in particular the country's highest courts. Finally, in February 2020, a constitutional investigation was set up to review the strengthening of the protection of democracy and the independence of the courts. We call it the 2020 Constitution Committee. We Moderates very much welcome the establishment of this study but would have liked the government to have responded to more of the moderate proposals and extended the directives. I will briefly address some of the issues that we Moderates would have liked to see included in the Basic Law Committee's directive. This applies in particular to the independence of the courts and the position of the Law Council. Mr. Old President! As I said, the principle of the independence of the courts from political power is central to the rule of law. The principle is expressed in Chapter 11. Section 3 The form of government, which states that no authority, nor the Riksdag, may decide how a court should judge in the individual case or how a court should otherwise apply a rule of law in a particular case. In the process of reviewing the need to further strengthen the independence of the courts and judges in the long term, the constitutional investigation will review whether the organisation, governance and role of the Court of Justice should be changed. We Moderates believe that the investigation should be given the task of proposing how an independent council of judges from the parliament and government could be set up, consisting of a majority of judges. This advice could then appoint the head of the Court of Justice. We also think that the investigation should consider whether regular supervision of the courts should be exercised by the Council. It should be laid down in the Constitution what the rules for judges in the Supreme Courts look like, for example in the case of dismissal. There is also a need to decouple the financial dependence of the courts on the government by instead placing the appropriations for them under a parliamentary committee. The measures to change the composition of persons in the highest courts that have come to use mainly in our near world have been the lowering of the retirement age, the introduction of new eligibility criteria and the refusal of the executive to appoint proposed members. Even in Sweden, it is possible, as I said, that a future government does not respect the principles of the rule of law but has the support of a majority in parliament. In that case, it may use this majority to amend the pension rules laid down by ordinary law. We welcome the fact that the 2020 Constitutional Law Committee has been tasked with considering a constitutional regulation on the retirement age of judges and judges. If the state wants to enable the Justice Council to remain in the service longer in the years ahead, a higher retirement age can be determined by ordinary law. The second part deals with the position of the Law Council and the judicial review. We want the position of the Law Council to be strengthened. There is a need for a clearer system to check whether a particular provision of the law or regulation is contrary to the Constitution. The Moderates would like the 2020 Constitutional Committee to look in particular at two possibilities to achieve this: firstly, by strengthening the position of the Law Council, so-called ex-ante control, and secondly, by introducing the possibility of establishing in ordinary courts that a certain legal provision is contrary to the Constitution or the ECHR without bringing the matter up to date in a specific case, so-called ex-post control. Ultimately, the legislation is the parliamentary responsibility, and voters can exercise their control over the legislator in general elections. But other reinforcements should be considered.
i-G33AQJBZR1F5nk2uCSPABL	Mr. Old President! In the debate on the KU30 report, I wanted to raise paragraph 41, the 2% budget framework. I would like to take this opportunity to ask for the approval of our Amendment No 35 on this matter. Mr. Old President! The terrible escalation of the situation in Ukraine over the past week has redesigned the playing field entirely in our neighbourhood. Although intelligence and satellite images showed an impending invasion, this full-scale attack on Europe's second largest country came as an emotional shock to all of us. With almost total unity, the free countries of the world have now joined behind Ukraine, and on Monday all parties in the House except the Left Party voted to send armaments to the country – something that would have been unlikely just a few years ago. Consciousness of this new situation creates the conditions for a soberer way of looking at our defence capabilities. The post-war period, with the exception of the death toll of the Soviet Union at the beginning of the 1990s, in our part of the world has been marked by tension, prosperity growth and belief in the future, up to a few years ago. Once again, as an old echo from before world wars, power is now defined by some in the form of surface, subjugated countries and military capabilities instead of economic prosperity based on successful business, high-tech competitive industry and international trade. This is not a development that we have wanted, but a reality that we must relate to. After the fall of the Berlin Wall, with demilitarisation, globalisation and prosperity, many of us were lulled into a sense of security. The old wars in Europe belonged to the past. The defense became more and more a purse from which you could take funds and cover for other things. The development of recent years shows that defence cannot be viewed in this way. The defence is anything but a special interest, as Prime Fredrik Reinfeldt once expressed it. A well-developed defence is the life insurance that the country must take out in order to avoid war as far as possible and to maintain freedom, democracy and prosperity. Dismantling military capabilities is fast. Recovering lost abilities, on the other hand, takes a long time and requires considerable resources. In order to be able to rebuild our total defence, and to ensure that the Armed Forces cannot be used in the short term as a budgetary regulator by future governments, it should be laid down in the Constitution that the appropriations for the Armed Forces must not be less than 2 per cent of gross domestic product. Once again, I commend our reservation number 35.
i-Y4fGuqovqerXhKXnMayh5H	Mr. Old President! Liberal democracy, the rule of law and respect for fundamental human rights – here at home, in Europe and in the world – are threatened and challenged every day. On Thursday 24 February this year, another border was crossed when Vladimir Putin chose to escalate the armed conflict in our neighbourhood by continuing to use his military against his neighbours in a way that undermines the entire European security regime. We have seen and seen it in Georgia and in Ukraine. Russian military presence is consistent with developments in South Ossetia, Abkhazia and Crimea as well as former Eastern Ukraine to now full-scale multi-front attacks on the whole of Ukraine. This is totally unacceptable. Sweden must therefore continue to stand up for and develop the European security regime and the liberal world order that has created peace and stability in our part of the world. Threats of military violence are not the only method used by Russia. Through propaganda, corruption and hybrid warfare, Russia is also trying to influence the elections and democratic integrity of other countries. By seeking such a split both between different groups within individual countries and between different countries, they seek strategic benefits. Cyber attacks, money laundering and strategic takeovers are other methods they use to gain influence. Ultimately, the struggle between democracy and dictatorship now stands a two-hour flight from Stockholm. The number of full democracies is falling and, according to a study, 2020 was the worst year of democracy since 2006. Even in previous strong liberal democracies, regimes undermine the free press, the rule of law and other fundamental rights. The rights of women and minorities are threatened and restricted. I have initially focused on Russia's actions, but unfortunately we also see other authoritarian states such as China moving forward their positions with economic pressure, intellectual property offences, cyber attacks, espionage and military power as weapons. Although Sweden's strong liberal democracy is prosperous, we too face challenges. The political debate has become rougher, and fewer are involved in political parties. Minority groups face racism, homophobia and other forms of hate crime. Elected representatives and journalists are subjected to threats and harassment, and violent extremism is a serious threat. At the same time, many citizens feel that the state is failing in its core tasks: creating security, security and good welfare. This, in turn, risks undermining trust in public institutions and fellow human beings. All of this is fueled by illiberal forces trying to divide the Swedes for their own gain. But, Mr. Old President, there's hope! Man's innate pursuit of freedom and justice means that liberal democracy will always have champions. But we must never take democracy for granted or underestimate its opponents; it is a joint project that we build together – every day, every generation. Democracy is worth fighting for, and that struggle is central to the political action of the Center Party. Mr. Old President! The Center Party's struggle for freedom is not limited to a few and granted. Our freedom is about every person's right to realize his life project, to expand his life chances and to feel real freedom, no matter who he is, who he loves, what skin color he has, where he lives and what he believes or not. The Center Party stands up for each individual's right to freedom and the opportunity to make the most of their ability and dreams. The Center Party has put forward many proposals in the Swedish Parliament on how liberal democracy can and should be strengthened. For democracy, it must be continuously developed and adapted, equipped and defended. The public institutions entrusted with the task of enforcing the policies supported by general elections shall do so in an efficient and transparent manner. Every day, invaders of foreign power try to enter our country and our democratic institutions to manipulate and polarise us. Neither do the political parties go free from these attempts at influence. Therefore, the Center Party proposes an investigation aimed at strengthening the resistance of political parties to external threats. That is why we want to strengthen the ban on party financing from foreign sources, and that is why we want to introduce stricter rules on party funding. This calls for political parties to report more data on their finances and to report revenue and expenses related to election campaigns promptly after elections. That is why we also want to introduce a lobby register. It is with transparency and openness that we can also increase resilience in political parties and confidence in democracy. Mr. Old President! The independence of courts and judges shall be strengthened. Civil and political rights should protect the individual from state arbitrariness and limit the power of the majority over the individual. Therefore, and in order to strengthen the constitutions, we want to introduce a Swedish constitutional court. The final report of the Corona Commission was presented last Friday and provides important lessons and recommendations. The Commission notes what the Center Party has previously criticised the government for, namely its unilateral dependence on the Public Health Authority. The Commission notes that this is not a good enough order for decisions during a serious social crisis. It once again puts the light on accountability: in a democracy, citizens can demand responsibility from their government but not from an authority. The Center Party therefore proposed this autumn that the Swedish administrative model be reviewed in the next constitutional investigation in order to strengthen citizens' ability to demand responsibility from ministers. When others want to assimilate indigenous peoples, minorities and immigrants, we will protect indigenous peoples and minorities and integrate immigrants. Mr. Old President! Over the past week, we have seen a joyful consensus in the EU behind strong sanctions against Russia since the start of the Putin invasion and the war in Ukraine. The EU has managed to rally in defence of its values of what kind of Europe we want. The EU cannot only defend the democratic and constitutional commitments of other countries, but must, when its own Member States do not respect them and do not put an end to public corruption, take a strong stance against this, for example, by severing EU aid payments to these Member States. I support all the reservations expressed by the Centre Party and I call for reservation 19 in paragraph 22.
i-WZ67etwwwTJFDQaRdp69RM	Mr. Old President! I believe that we are all very concerned about what is happening in our neighbourhood, and that, of course, affects the debate here today. There are many inputs to our view of democracy. There is much to be touched on, and one might think that I will dwell on a petty question – I am going to talk about the king and the monarchy. I believe that we must also continue our work, as the chairman of the committee said, and I think that democracy needs to be developed everywhere and defended all the time. We celebrate 100 years of democracy in Sweden. We have been doing this during this term of office. There have been different things every year, and this year there is an extra lot on the drums because it is 100 years since the first women came into parliament. Five women came in here then. I think it is time to take this one step further. All missions must be eligible for election. We're not supposed to be born into different positions. The only thing that still remains in this way is actually to be head of state in Sweden. Parliament has a democracy cooperation with North Macedonia. That's great. We work in several ways to spread democracy in other countries and in our country. Last week we were a few Members who visited North Macedonia. We met parliamentarians from there and discussed how you can work to have a basis for making reasonable decisions and how you can work together so that people's perceptions can get impact and majorities through what they want but that minorities also have their things said. We talked briefly about democracy on many levels. We also met their president. One evening I sat at the dinner table talking to one of the members from there, and then he asked about our president. I said: No, we have no president – Sweden is an inheritance monarchy. He was quite surprised and asked: How can you be? Sweden, which is such a democracy and a leading country on these issues! How can you have a king or a queen who inherits his mission? Yes, I said, I don't know-- it was an agreement in the Basic Law investigation in 1974. We have made many agreements and looked at the constitutions after that, but never before has the question of monarchy ever been looked at. How could we do this in a different way? In fact, it is possible to elect a president in a general election. It is possible to elect a president of the parliament, as they do in Germany. It is possible to appoint a President as the country's main representative. But we have never even come so far that we have looked at the question. Lots of other constitutional issues arise a little now and then, not least the one that the chairman mentioned about, among other things, courts – 15 years after the previous investigation was set up. But you can't even look at this question. I find it incomprehensible. After 100 years of women in parliament, I think it is time to go further and look at how we can fully implement democracy in Sweden as well. I'm in favour of reservation number two.
i-NB6WCLc2A73Y6XkQkAYiRR	Mr. Old President! An open democratic society is the foundation of freedom and democracy. The democratic state of the countries of the world shows that democracy cannot be taken for granted. We now see this happening day by day in our neighbourhood. We see how authoritarian leaders in the world restrict the freedoms of their citizens: freedom of expression, freedom of the press, the right to speak and demonstrate and the right to information and media. Authoritarian leaders in the world can also threaten the freedom of other countries. Like many other speakers, I would like to draw attention to the fact that today's thoughts go to the Ukrainian people who are fighting for their freedom and, by extension, also for our freedom. Sweden is one of the most stable democracies in the world, but we are not immune. In order for popular governance, the rule of law and the free formation of opinion to work also in a political twilight situation, there is a need for an in-depth discussion on how to make democratic structures more robust. The ultimate protection lies in a strong popular commitment to democratic values. Democracy must always be regained and democratic principles constantly explained and defended. The day we take them for granted, democracy becomes vulnerable seriously. Alone is not strong; alone is only alone. That is why the Liberals have been working for a very long time to strengthen EU cooperation. But it is also important that the principles of the rule of law are respected throughout the EU. It is central to ensuring citizens' rights. Mr. Old President! Democracy cannot be taken for granted. Everyone should be given the opportunity to know the most important ideas and texts that have shaped Swedish democracy. Through a democracy cannon, these ideas can be made available to all, generation after generation. We propose that the government assign a group of experts from different parts of society – political scientists, historians, teachers and others – to form a democracy cannon. A democracy cannon can consist of a collection of texts that have had particular significance for the development of democracy in Sweden. It can be about illustrating how freedom of the press early got a foothold in Sweden or how the struggle for women's right to vote and gender equality went about. International texts that have influenced, developed and deepened our democracy should also be included as inspiration. A democracy canon should be an important part of the school's different grades as well as for reading and discussion at study circles, folk high schools and sfi-teaching – yes, in all education available. A democracy cannon can strengthen the foundations of democratic work in generation after generation. Mr. Old President! Swedish democracy, gender equality, freedom of expression, right to vote, freedom of association and other rights and freedoms are not entirely unique Swedish phenomena. Their origins are the result of hundreds of years of struggle for freedom, equality, democracy and humanistic activity on the political barricades both within and outside parliament, in parties and civil societies, trade unions and at universities around the world. The Parliament pays special attention to the achievements of democracy and the right to vote during the current Parliamentary Session. On 12 September 1921, women were given the right to vote for the first time in parliamentary elections. In 2021 it was 100 years since the first parliamentary elections were held in which both women and men were allowed to vote. We should ensure that future generations and new citizens get an understanding of the ideas and ideas that shaped today's society and the community of values. Sweden is today one of the most stable democracies in the world, but the working methods of democracy must be constantly developed. Similarly, further reforms are needed to strengthen the constitutional protection of the democratic system, freedom of opinion and individual rights. Democracy cannot be taken for granted. Mr. Old President! I would like to conclude by calling for the approval of reservation 18 only, but we naturally support all our reservations.
i-4pwjfdsT3nhnQLf3AyT8t4	Mr. Old President! What we sum up as constitutional issues is of course important, and it is important that we have strong legislation to protect democracy, independent courts and the administration of justice. But the way you change constitutions and how to protect courts is quite abstract. What matters is what we all do and stand for in everyday life. So do you want to do something to protect democracy in Sweden and be part of the democratic international community, do it! Join the party you like best! You may even be able to run for office. Encourage others to be if you feel that it is nothing for you. Consider, in particular, the encouragement of older or younger people or those who may hesitate more when it comes to getting involved in politics than others do. Vote for the party you like best in the autumn elections, and tell others why it is important to vote! Get in a square with a sign! Stand up for democracy! And support the struggle in Ukraine and all the other countries where the struggle for democracy continues! There the struggle, with the risk of one's own life, is very concrete. With simpler funds, we in Sweden can also do something concrete, in a square. Having said that, I would like to highlight some proposals from the Green Party which are dealt with in this report. This concerns a national citizens' initiative, better representation of older people in politics, changes in constitutions and the protection of public services in the constitution. The Green Party wants to examine what a national citizens' initiative could look like. There are several other countries, and within the EU citizens can gather to present an initiative that is being dealt with in Parliament. Citizens' proposals can also be presented in several municipalities and regions. Maybe someone's tried to do it. It is then debated in that assembly. We want to explore what a similar proposal would look like whereby we MEPs could debate a citizens' initiative that has received sufficient support from citizens. This is a proposal from the 2014 democracy inquiry, and the aim is to strengthen Swedish democracy and increase citizens' influence. In our exercise A richer life for the elderly, we have also highlighted the need to encourage and facilitate participation of older people in politics at national level where under-representation is strong. We in this House need to better reflect the population. Right now, the 2020 constitutional investigation is under way to protect democracy and strengthen the courts. Among other things, it is about how the Constitution can be changed. The Green Party wants it to be more difficult to change a constitution. We want the intermediate election that has to be held when changing a constitution to be an ordinary election, not an extra election. Mr. Old President! The Green Party also wants to strengthen the protection of public service independence in the Constitution. It has been investigated several times, and there is support for it in Parliament. But the support is not as broad as we believe in practice that support should be to change the constitution. The Green Party stands for continuing to work to ensure that public service independence is protected in the Constitution at some point in the future. Mr. Old President! With reference to the above, I support the Green Party's reservations 15 and 41.
i-EfqkxYhNMRG9QmsQEdYniD	Mr. Old President! It is not without reflection that one today steps up in the speaker's chair to debate. In a free country, breaking its arguments against those of others, all elected by citizens in free and equal elections, is a privilege. That is something that we often take for granted in this House. But as the outside world has made us painfully reminded, it is something you may have to fight for. My thoughts go to the courageous Ukrainian people, who are currently fighting for their right to decide their own country. While we are doing what we can to support Ukraine in their fight, we also have a duty not to let our democratic work stop. That is why we have come together to debate constitutional issues. In the report, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has dealt with a large number of motions ranging from government to the rule of law, human rights, the number of Members and the relationship between parliament and government. There are many suggestions and ideas that have been discussed in the past in the KU but which nevertheless form an important part of the ongoing discussion of the rules of the game for our democracy. The committee is now dealing with issues relating to the public reward system and public days of the flag. Regarding this is a bill that has been preceded by a parliamentary inquiry on the way to the Riksdag from the government. At the same time, another parliamentary constitutional investigation is under way that reviews the protection of our democracy and how we can strengthen the independence of our courts. This is how we should proceed when we make changes to our constitution and society, through careful consideration and long-term processes where we try to reach consensus after turning and turning all parts around. Changing the constitution and society should be difficult and cumbersome. It's part of its strength. I would therefore like to support the committee's proposal in the report, which rejects all motions. Finally, I want to share a quote from my calendar this week: a brighter day for every dark night. .....................................................
i-XHpAXfJoQogMMrw8DzHauo	Mr. Old President! I naturally agree with the stated support of previous speakers for Ukraine and the struggle for freedom for which the Ukrainian people are now courageously fighting. It's a struggle for us, too. Now I'm moving on to today's business. More than 20 years ago, the church was separated from the state. We had a state church, but time and a few decades of questioning a symbiosis between state and church led to a divorce. Why, then, do we stand here today to debate a number of motions brought together in a report entitled 'Confession of Faith and Funeral Issues'? If we had really separated the church from the state, such questions would rightly have belonged to the council or would have been decided in some other order over which the church itself had authority. We stand here today to debate motions that include the relationship between the state and the Swedish Church and the possibility of a freer parishion. Some exercise also involves state aid with church fees, funeral fees, burial and the spreading of the ashes of the deceased. We also stand here because church and state are not completely separated. Since 1998, we have had a law on the Church of Sweden that regulates, for example, what internal democracy in the church and its organisation should look like. If this could have been a rational order 20 years ago, it is far from obvious that it should be so today. The majority of the committee has called for rejection not only of motions for a change in the position of the Church of Sweden, but also of all the other motions discussed in our report. But we Moderates in the KU, like the motion from Viktor Wärnick and others, want to see an investigation to enable the Riksdag to take further steps in the separation between state and church. We believe that the draft parliamentary decision under item 1 should read as follows: Parliament agrees with what is stated in the reservation and announces this to the government. Mr. Old President! Like two other parties, we also want to give the possibility of a freer membership of the assembly. Anyone who is a member of the Church of Sweden is an old member of a parish. The parish is the local unit within the Church of Sweden and comprises the people who belong to the Church of Sweden and who live within the area of the parish. This means that, in order to use a complicated word, the principle of territoriality is applied. To the individual church member, however, this principle of territoriality is not always self-evident. Perhaps he or she would rather be in another congregation, perhaps where you grew up or where you once married. The question of a freer parishion has been dealt with by the Council on several occasions. A study was set up in 2001 and after a few years presented a number of possible models from a fully free parishion to a freer one. It was found that some of the models are certainly not compatible with the Swedish Church Act and that in some other cases they could be considered more or less incompatible with the law. Thus it is not only possible by changes in the church order to enable a member to become a member of – and thus have to pay his or her fee – a different congregation from the one to which he or she belongs through the geographical location of the place of residence. Changes to the regulations of the Act on the Church of Sweden concerning membership of the parish in which you reside are required. As the motion from Viktor Wärnick and others points out, the legislation should be amended in such a way that the Church of Sweden can decide for itself whether to maintain a strict geographical link with regard to the membership of the congregation or whether to introduce a freer order. The Parliament should have no influence on how the organization of the Church of Sweden is designed. I would therefore like to ask that the draft parliamentary resolution under paragraph 3 of the report be worded as follows: Parliament agrees with what is stated in the reservation and announces this to the government.
i-X4s25MgFBu83MhcqhGF7GT	Mr. Old President! Of course, like previous speakers, I would like to express my support and solidarity with the people of Ukraine. There is some humility in being able to debate religions and funeral issues at a time like this. Mr. Old President! I would like to endorse Amendment No 4, which deals with the burial and spreading of the ashes of the deceased. However, I also support two other reservations in this report. First of all, I would like to stress that religions play an important role in our society, including by being a cohesive force and by showing humanity and being a voice for those who otherwise no one has. For the Left Party, it is self-evident to protect religious freedom. In order to fulfil their important role in society, communities need to have good funding and otherwise good conditions for their activities in order to be able to act as social actors in the long term. Having said that, we believe that today's order regarding the Church of Sweden is illogical. Like all other associations, the Church of Sweden should have full freedom to decide its activities. As with other communities, it should be the members and not the Riksdag who should make these choices. We therefore believe that it is the members of the Swedish Church who should decide on the question of, for example, parishion. This does not necessarily mean that the current order will change, but it should be the members of the Church of Sweden who have the decisive influence on the issue. Mr. Old President! We also believe that, as far as possible, after a death, the wishes of the dead and the survivors of the deceased should be met. The Funeral Act today has limitations and rules that are too restrictive. Sweden's inhabitants have a diverse background. In many cases, legislation only leaves room for deviation from the rules provided that there has been a sufficiently strong religious conviction. There you can go to yourself. How should I judge how strong religious conviction someone else has had? As a result, people's wishes for dismissal are treated quite differently. We find that unfortunate. Our legislation on funerals should be based on equal and secular principles.
i-M9M7oRu3jWVsKtQJA95hyg	Mr. Old President! The religions are a central part of civil society and should as such have good opportunities to operate. The state is secular, but that does not mean that you have no responsibility. The responsibility of the state is to secure a free religion – or none at all – and thus not to take a stand for a particular religion or certain communities. Swedish liberalism was born of the struggle for freedom of religion. This is a question in our DNA. We want to give the Church of Sweden the same freedom that all other religions have. It is not about for or against religion, it is about securing the freedom of all religions. It was through church – the state reform in 1999 that the relationship between the Swedish Church and the state changed. The Church Act with roots in the 1600s as well as the state's participation in decisions on the inner activities of the Church of Sweden were abolished. This was something that the Liberals, who have deep roots in the fight for freedom of religion, had been working for for a very long time. However, the reform did not mean that the special government of the Swedish Church ceased completely. While other communities freely choose their own organisational form, there is a special law on the Church of Sweden that regulates in detail the structure of the community, the duties of the congregation, the role of bishops, the decision-making powers of the council, and so on. The Act on the Church of Sweden can be seen as part of the broader compromise that in the 1990s made possible the change in relations between the state and the Church of Sweden. The Liberals have for a long time worked for the Swedish Church to achieve full independence on the same terms as the other religious communities in Sweden. In order for the Church of Sweden to be completely free from government control, the Liberals therefore believe that the special law on the Church of Sweden should be abolished. The Church of Sweden, like all other communities, should have full freedom to determine its own activities. It is its members who will decide the community's choices on religious matters. However, this in itself does not affect the responsibility of the Church of Sweden as regards the funeral system, nor does it affect the possibility for the religious communities to obtain help through the Swedish Tax Agency with the collection of membership fees, as this is regulated by other legislation. Mr. Old President! With this, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 2.
i-V6LEC69xuKjGSxk9X3875V	Mr. Old President! I would also like to begin by expressing my support for the Ukrainian people and the ongoing struggle for the country's self-evident right to democratic development and independence. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs' report KU31 deals with motions for motion, which focus primarily on the position of the Church of Sweden, the role of the parishes and funeral issues. I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report and therefore reject the motions. It is now more than 20 years since the Swedish Church had changed relations with the state and the concept of state church ceased. Given that it is over 1,000 years since Christianity, inspired by the continent and the British Isles, came to what was then Sweden and over 500 years since the introduction of the Lutheran Evangelical Church, the 20-year perspective is indeed moderate. However, those involved in the discussions up to the decision that came into force at the turn of the millennium in 2000 are becoming fewer and fewer in missions and services. In a documentation prepared by the Church Office, which was presented at the end of last year, and which I have read during our preparation, there is a compilation that reviews what the relationship changes have meant both legally and organizationally as well as economically. It states that the Swedish Church, which is part of the worldwide church and civil society, has been strengthened in a number of areas. The debate on church and state and the conditions surrounding it went on for several decades. The law on freedom of religion, which came into being in the early 50s, has to be said to be central in this context. It is about everyone's right to believe or not to believe and requires constant and sustained respect. With 5.7 million members, 13 dioceses and over 1,300 parishes within the country and some thirty abroad, it is noted that the church is still a strong social force and plays a role in working together with other religions and civil society. The Swedish Church Act, which was introduced in connection with the end of the state church, highlights the independence of the parishes and dioceses, the open folk church and democracy. For my part, I have regular meetings with representatives of the Church of Sweden, the Jewish Central Council and the Islamic Cooperation Council for reconciliation and dialogue in the work that is going on for increased understanding and respect in terms of diversity, faith practice and civic commitment. In Malmö, in particular, initiatives have been taken to actively combat anti-Semitism and racism. In this work, the Church of Sweden has played and still plays an important role as a cohesive force. Mr. Old President! The Church of Sweden's relationship with the public also houses a part of society's crisis preparedness. Not least in the current situation, with the Russian invasion of Ukraine and a troubled time in Europe and our neighbourhood, the church has opened its gates and in various ways demonstrated and acted in support of people in vulnerable situations. The parishes are represented in most municipalities' group for mental and social care, Posom, which is activated in local crises. The church also has a permanent presence at the Swedish Agency for Civil Protection and preparedness weekly collaboration conferences and the opportunity to both provide and receive support within the framework of MSB's responsibility. For example, during the 2020 pandemic, MSB set up special coordination conferences to support society's management of the deceased at the request of the Church of Sweden. However, the authorities that work most closely with crisis, war or blue light operations have established collaboration with the church, for example through agreements with the Police Authority on cooperation in the case of death bids and with the Swedish Armed Forces on soul care. At national level, there are regular contacts with most departments in the Government Office and established contacts or collaborations with several authorities. This cooperation and the interaction can be emphasised, as it is precisely stated in the motions that we have here that the collaboration between the state and the church should be reconsidered. There are some motions for further reinforcements and for democracy not to be regulated in the way it is now. Mr. Old President! A living democracy in the church with popular roots, church elections and elected representatives is, as I see it, a guarantee that the church will continue to play an important role in society where openness and participation are the starting points for engagement. The parties that want to stand in church elections can all do so, as well as independent nomination groups that may not be connected at all to any party either municipal, regional or national. The committee has also previously rejected motions requesting the government to submit proposals to amend the legislation in order to change the current relationship between the church and the state, and does not see this time that there are reasons for similar initiatives. With regard to the question of freer parishion, which is addressed in one of the motions, it can be referred to that this issue has also been raised at the Council on several occasions, no later than 2021. According to the church's own organizational committee, it has referred to the potential of small congregations to be compromised. There is even talk of the risk of congregations competing out of each other and that it would ultimately affect residents and individual parishioners in smaller places in Sweden. In this context, too, the concept of "The whole of Sweden" should be relevant. That is also what I understand the direction of the council for why this position has been taken. There is therefore, as I see it, no reason for the Riksdag to consider this, which has also been examined in detail by the Council. Mr. Old President! A motion deals with the burial and spreading of the ashes of the deceased. In this case, too, the committee has dealt with issues relating to the relocation of tombs and the spread of ashes and has stressed the importance of funerals being carried out in a manner that is considered worthy, and the supervision of the county administrative boards is emphasised. According to the burial decree, the ashes of a deceased person may be shared if the county administrative board authorises them. Such permission can be given if there are exceptional reasons for it, such as the possibility of some of the ashes being buried abroad, and that it is obvious that, as it is pointed out, the ashes will be handled in a pietetic manner. In view of the fact that Swedish legislation still allows the migration of dust and ash under certain conditions, the committee has come to the conclusion that there are insufficient grounds for initiating a legislative amendment for further changes.
i-VRg7vXrga5tET6g8DHcrRP	Mr. Old President! I have to ask a question to Mr Per-Per-Arne Håkansson. I don't really get the logic together. PerPer-Arne Håkansson refers to the Council's decision and says that we in Parliament should not consider it. But isn't that exactly what we do in Parliament when it is the Riksdag that has the last word?
i-DdAJrfKguLRYSNpaytmcDa	Mr. Old President! Yes, we listen to the council and take the impression of the council's decisions. They weigh heavily in our assessments. The General Assembly is a democratic forum in which the issues are developed in an in-depth manner for decisions.
i-CBk9AcJuP5JEJhby5UHjco	Mr. Old President! Thank you for your answer. I still don't quite understand. The council is the highest decision-making body – that's how it is – in a democratic forum, but there is still a parliament that can review the decisions. We can listen, but we can also vote and feel exactly the opposite of what the Council thinks. I fully agree with the council that the whole of Sweden should live. It would be very stupid and bad to make decisions about freer congregation membership if you think that congregations would compete out of each other. But is it not the members of the church themselves and their highest democratic forum that should be allowed to make that decision?
i-XUooTXGJy4RjZ9P7n5QwfD	Mr. Old President! It is the council's task to make those decisions. We also have reason to take the decisions and orientations of the council for the church on behalf of the state and parliament. The question of freer parishion here is a matter that the Council has taken seriously, and this conclusion has been reached after detailed discussions. I do not believe that the Riksdag should come to any other conclusion on the basis of our conditions when there is such a democratic foundation around the Council's decision.
i-5oCQXVUVF9XkTFDLd885vc	Mr. Old President! If it were the case that this is a debate on whether to transfer tax rights from Sweden to the European Union, then the message from us Social Democrats is no. We do not want to transfer tax rights from Sweden to the EU. This position has long been established, and it has broad support in the Riksdag and is also the government's position. There is therefore broad agreement on this. This position and agreement on the part of Sweden is well known within the EU. There is no doubt about Sweden's view of this. Both here in Sweden and in the EU, it is fully aware that Sweden does not want to transfer tax rights. Why, Mr President-in-Office, is this clarification, if this is not the subject of the debate? Well, that is because the opinion we are now discussing concerns the examination of the principle of subsidiarity, which can be described by the principle of proximity. Let me briefly explain. The principle is that decisions should be taken as closely as possible or at the local level as possible. There are several reasons for making decisions. They can be designed according to local conditions, and there is a close accountability. As citizens, we can more easily view decisions when they are close and local, and decisions are not made over our heads. But we will also see to the purpose. In the case of areas that can be decided in the respective parliaments of the EU Member States, this should be done, while in the case of issues that necessarily need to be decided jointly at EU level, this should be done. Therefore, when the aim requires that the matter be decided jointly, over the national parliaments, it becomes the lowest appropriate level and thus in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity – the principle of proximity. What is the right level for different issues has the Riksdag sometimes to take a position on – as it is now. When Parliament does so on the basis of this principle of subsidiarity, it is a separate decision in itself. In that situation, we are not taking a position on the content of a question, but only on the level at which the matter is to be decided. When the matter reaches us in Parliament's position, it has been preceded by the fact that the European Commission has first justified why it believes that the issue should be dealt with at EU level in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity and then that the government has also considered the matter and taken a position, after which the Parliament takes a position. It is rare for the Riksdag to make a different assessment than the European Commission or the Government. The reason for this is that the subsidiarity tests are not very politically charged or debated because we do not have a position on the content. Distinguishing between the subsidiarity test and considering the content is necessary for the decision-making process to proceed. Mr. Old President! The matter on which we now have a position is a subsidiarity review of the EU's own resources and possible new sources of revenue. As yet, nothing has been presented by the European Union on how to design this, and as I began with, our position of principle, as well as that of the government, is already known. Like the European Commission and the Government, we believe that this matter is not in breach of the principle of subsidiarity, on the basis of what is known so far. If, at a later stage, there is more to come about the proposal, we may re-assess it, but so far, we believe, the matter is in line with the principle of subsidiarity. For us, our position is a matter of form where we see the value of maintaining order for how things should be handled. In so doing, I would like to refer to our specific opinion.
i-2LX4WrQUL169HfqiAxin8q	Mr. Old President! It's a dark day today. During my 16 years in Parliament, I have participated in a number of debates related to EU issues, and in recent years when I have been a member of both the Finance Committee and the EU Board, there has been much of this. My line in the debates has always been clear. I am a great friend of the idea of the European Union, and I see enormous benefits from cooperation in key areas in order to solve common problems and try to protect peace, freedom and democratic values. And the basic idea of free movement in Europe has been of great benefit to Sweden. At the same time, I have always been critical of the EU interfering in issues that should not be dealt with at European level and trying to take over more and more power from national parliaments. The principle of subsidiarity is fundamental. The EU should focus on issues that are best dealt with at common level, but stay away from issues that should be dealt with nationally. This applies in the same way as for the Swedish state to refrain from interfering in matters that are best decided in Swedish regions or municipalities. Mr. Old President! The importance of this demarcation cannot be made any clearer than it is today. Europe is currently experiencing a truly terrible time. For me who grew up with the Cold War and the Berlin Wall, it's like being thrown back for 40 to 50 years. What is happening in Ukraine right now is disgusting and despicable. I myself visited Ukraine a number of years ago as an election observer for the OSSE and was stationed in the Charkiv which is currently being devastated by Russian rockets. We see how Russian bombs and rockets are now directed directly at residential areas and how to bomb both hospitals and schools. It is difficult to take into account the enormous indifference to human life shown by the Russian government leading President Putin. I wonder what the Ukrainian people have done to Putin. Is it their will to form a democratic country that is disturbing? In Ukraine, relatives are currently fighting each other. Russia attacks a brother people with common history, culture and partly language with which many traditionally have close ties and contacts across the border. Someone likened it to Sweden attacking Norway and bombing the civilian population in Oslo and Bergen. The war costs human lives in a horrifying amount, both Ukrainians and young conscript Russian soldiers – soldiers who in many cases seem to have thought they were going to practice but who ended up in the midst of a war against their brother people where their own president uses them as cannon food. The blame lies entirely with Russia's President Putin. Every man killed, Ukrainian as well as Russian, he is personally responsible for. At the same time, the courage and the will to defend the Ukrainian people is admirable. But the balance of forces between Russia and Ukraine is to the Russians' advantage, and without the help of the outside world, Ukraine would in the long run have no chance. This is where Europe comes in. In recent weeks, the European Union has shown a fantastic agreement on very sharp sanctions against Russia, which is coordinated with a number of other countries such as the United States, Canada, Japan and Australia. Without the massive support of, among other things, the EU and its Member States, both in terms of economic sanctions and active support with weapons, Ukraine would in the long run have no chance. But now the whole free, democratic world stands up for an attacked country, and without Europe this would hardly have been possible. We can now also note that Ukraine has formally applied for membership of the European Union. The EU has now shown that it can act quickly and decisively, that it can help each other to deal with the impact of sanctions, energy shortages or refugee flows on different Member States, and that it can act together to help Ukraine both humanitarianly and militarily. Today we are also seeing Poland and other countries in Eastern Europe taking enormous responsibility for receiving refugees from Ukraine. I would say that the European Union is now showing itself on its very best side. It reminds us why the European Union was formed, and it reminds us why Sweden joined the European Union. In fact, it was primarily to stand united against new wars and to defend free, democratic societies. Mr. Old President! The EU's task is precisely this – to bring the Member States together around major, important issues relating to the future of Europe. On the other hand, the EU's task is not to take over issues which are best dealt with by each Member State itself. This brings us to today's matter in the Committee on Finance. The European Commission has proposed the introduction of three new types of own resources, i.e. three new sources of revenue for the EU budget. The revenue from the new own resources will be used, among other things, to pay the debts following the large recovery package introduced to mitigate the effects of the coronapdemine in the Member States, a package which we moderates were very critical of. When the matter came up in the Committee on Finance, I pointed out our moderate attitude. Decisions on the three proposals for new own resources are well advanced. We do not know exactly what the decisions will be, and the impact on Sweden is currently difficult to assess. But it is quite clear that at least one of the proposals, what we call Pillar 1 or the redistribution of tax rights for large international companies, means that the EU takes over tax rights from the Member States. We Moderates find it strange that today we should give the go-ahead for using these three new own resources before we know what the proposals will actually mean. We cannot say okay to a proposal that we have not seen in concrete terms. There is reason to be careful to say that this does not conflict with the subsidiarity rules because we do not know exactly what the proposals will look like. The Swedish Parliament has previously stated by a large majority that taxation should be a national competence and not transferred to the EU. For this reason, the Moderates believe that the current proposal is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. Taxation is a national competence that should be safeguarded. In addition, as the government itself points out in its memorandum, the question whether the objective of the proposal can be achieved by other means than by providing new own resources is based on subsidiarity testing. We share the government's view that repayment of EU debt should instead be made by redeployment in the EU budget or, in the alternative, under the existing system of own resources. Unlike the government, we moderates believe that this is a reason to believe that the Commission's proposal is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. I am very pleased that the moderate line received broad support from the Committee on Finance, which writes in its reasoned opinion that will be submitted to the European Commission as a Swedish position: The Swedish Parliament has examined the Commission's proposal for a revised decision on the system of the European Union's own resources... Sweden will work towards an effective and prudent budgetary policy within the EU, which means a cost-effective use of the EU's budgetary resources...[----] Parliament notes that the main objective of the Commission's proposal for a revised own resources decision is to finance the repayment of EU debt... Parliament also notes that the Commission states that new own resources can be used to finance the Social Climate Fund. The Parliament considers that the Commission's proposed measures go beyond what is necessary to achieve the desired objectives of the proposal. ..................................................... The opinion then says a number of other things, but the summary is as follows: In view of this, the Parliament considers that the Commission's proposal for an amended decision on the system of EU own resources cannot be considered compatible with the principle of subsidiarity. ..................................................... This does not mean that we take a position on the substance of the three proposals, but it does mean that we note that it is not reasonably possible to say today that the proposals comply with the principle of subsidiarity. Then we cannot accept them either. Mr. Old President! The Moderates will continue to push for strong and active work in the EU to agree on major, important issues while standing up for the principle of subsidiarity and questioning unnecessary or overly tricky decisions on issues that are usefully dealt with at national level. Sweden should be a strong and reliable partner in EU cooperation, but we should also look after the EU project and question what we think is wrong. If you focus on the big, important issues and leave it to the Member States, the EU will function better, make better decisions and have stronger support among the citizens of the Union. It safeguards the future of Europe as an important player in the defence of peace, freedom and democracy in Europe. Mr. Old President! It has never been more important than it is now to safeguard the EU's thinking and to care for the EU project.
i-AzB5qRfh6AqcsSyHpwWSsD	Mr. Old President! On the website of the Riksdag, you can read the following: The history of the European Union begins shortly after the Second World War. To ensure peace in Europe, six countries are starting cooperation on coal and steel production. More than 60 years later, the EU has 27 Member States. They have created a common market for goods and services where EU citizens can freely move between countries to work and study. ..................................................... That sounds good, and that is right – extra right now that we were shocked to see how a peaceful neighbour of Europe is attacked by Russia. Unfortunately, however, the EU has developed into something quite different from what Parliament briefly describes. A few countries with well-managed public finances have to pay large fees to enjoy free trade and the free movement of their citizens. Sweden is one of the countries that pays the highest fee per inhabitant while many Member States receive more money in the form of grants than they pay in the form of contributions. It is a constant struggle for Sweden to resist the costs of membership. Both the European Commission and several Member States are working hard to increase the EU's power and budget. This huge budget is financed by the EU's own resources, which are best described as the EU's revenue. Most of the revenue consists of Member States' contributions. However, there is also revenue from each Member State in the form of VAT revenue, customs duties and the last income generated, consisting of a non-recoverable plastic tax. Mr. Old President! I'd like to dwell briefly on the plastic tax. It may seem good from a climate perspective and seem to benefit Sweden because we are already good at recycling. But this is a matter of principle. Opening up to the plastic tax has brought us closer to more proposals for taxes at EU level, despite the fact that taxes are the competence of each Member State. One way for the Commission to increase the budget is to introduce new own resources, i.e. to find new sources of revenue. The Commission has now put forward two arguments in favour of the new own resources proposal. To a large extent, the new revenue will finance the EU's common costs for the Next Generation EU recovery instrument. It is the absurdly large fund that will support the countries of the European Union after the coronapandemy. But the proceeds are also intended to be used to finance the so-called Social Climate Fund. The Swedish Democrats have said no to both the Next Generation EU and the Social Climate Fund. What we are debating today is whether the Commission's proposal on new own resources is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity, that is, in this case whether the EU has the right to propose taxes at European level. Mr. Old President! The Swedish Democrats believe that the proposal is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity, for many reasons. The EU has a system of a long-term budget that is determined for several years at a time, the so-called MFF. Right now we are in the period 2021 to 2027. The current MFF was decided on at the same time as the decision on the Corona Fund, the Next Generation EU. The Member States have thus agreed on the size of the budget and the distribution of revenue until 2027. Although we are only at the beginning of the long-term budget, the Commission is in the process of increasing the budget. The arguments for introducing new own resources do not hold true. The current budget will finance the reimbursement and possible new initiatives through re-priorities. There's a deal. We should not be fooled by the EU that new own resources are a way of keeping Member States' contributions down. The costs will not be reduced for Sweden, on the contrary. The only way to reduce the EU's costs is to tighten up the EU budget – to review what the EU is actually funding. A majority in the Committee on Finance believes that the proposal is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity, although the Commission's proposal is not sharp. We know in general what the proposal is about and we see the importance of taking immediate and clear action, because tax law should be a national competence, just as the Member States have agreed. The government has made a departure from this with the current MFF, where the EU has introduced the aforementioned plastic tax. And even if Article 311, which governs the EU's own resources, does not say exactly how the EU will finance its budget, that article does not mean that it is free for the EU to introduce its own tax bases. The subsidiarity review carried out by the Committee on Finance also includes a proportionality assessment. The proposed action must not go beyond what is necessary to achieve the objectives of the proposal. And that is exactly what the proposal is doing at this stage. We believe that funding should and can be done by redeploying funds within the current EU budget. The last thing the Swedish Democrats want is for the EU to move towards becoming a tax union, where the division of power is shifted even more to Brussels. It is highly likely that, with increased powers in the form of new own resources, the EU will gain even greater power over the budget. It is extremely important that the budget is largely financed by Member States' contributions. Only this ensures that countries such as Sweden, which pay a fee much higher than the amount that comes back, are careful and work towards a prudent budget. This whole proposal is precisely an expression of poor budgetary discipline. Mr. Old President! The proposal is already clear enough that the Commission wants parts of the Member States' tax revenue to be allocated to the EU. The Swedish people have the right to tax themselves. That is why we are calling for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved.
i-8jdtQXX8ZcpBGvuGKnr2Ak	Mr. Old President! I can see that I have felt a little tedious– in almost all my speeches to this House on defence issues, I have started by noting that the security situation in our neighbourhood has deteriorated and continues to deteriorate. I have not been alone in this, of course, and unfortunately it has been true. There is now a full-scale war in Ukraine, which is in Europe. It is a war that, of course, primarily and worst affects the people of Ukraine, but it also affects us here in Sweden. It is a war in which responsibility rests entirely with the Russian government. Where this will end and when no one knows. However, we know one thing, and that is that the security policy situation in Sweden's immediate neighbourhood, in Europe, has now been completely redesigned. War in Europe is not just a threat; it is a harsh reality. Mr. Old President! As has been said, the security situation has deteriorated for a long time, which has led to the strengthening of our own defences for some time. This applies not only to us in Sweden but to the whole of Europe. We will have to continue to do so, even more so than so far. What, then, have we learned about building a stronger defence capability, and what should we think about in the future? Yes, that is exactly what the national audit report we are now debating is about, namely the work between 2016 and 2020 to strengthen the army forces. The report is in some respects worrying as the government, which so often does not assume its responsibilities as a government, allows the authorities themselves to decide far too much, without analysis, planning and follow-up. There are several important conclusions to be drawn in this report, as well as guidance on how to ensure during the current defence decision-making period that the increased resources for defence are best used to build a strengthened defence capability. We are far from finished with the renovation of Sweden's total defence, and therefore it is wise to learn from the mistakes made and the successes achieved in order to make the work better in the future. The time for error simply does not exist in the situation we are in, a situation in which there is a war in Europe. Mr. Old President! The Swedish National Audit Office highlights, among other things, the following: a balanced assessment by the Swedish National Audit Office is that the work of the Government and the Swedish Armed Forces to strengthen the operational capabilities of the armed forces during the period of defence orientation has not been effective in all parts. Weaknesses have been identified in planning, analysis, governance and implementation. ..................................................... These are hard words in auditing languages. My translation into everyday Swedish could be: The government has so often been uninterested in governing its authorities and uninterested in what they do. After all, it is the Swedish Armed Forces that we are talking about and not just any authority. It is the authority that ultimately protects Sweden's freedom and independence. It should be added that criticism is being levelled at the military leadership, which, among other things, has been too high-level in detail, rather than allowing the army staff, for example, in this case, to have an increased mandate. I may also add, however, that at the end of the last period, several of the critical points raised in the audit were resolved by the Swedish Armed Forces. But to make sure that we learn from our mistakes, several things need to be done and put in place, according to us Moderates. It is mainly about the supply of equipment, both existing equipment and future purchases. The amount of material and the sums in crowns and coins we're talking about are gigantic. Therefore, planning and governance in this area is very central. There's more to do here. We therefore propose, together with the Christian Democrats, several things in the accompanying motion we have put forward. Among other things, we propose to complement the current material supply investigation with a mission to develop a defence industry strategy. Our strong defence industry is unique in relation to the size of our country. The ability of the army to grow is also strongly linked to the possibility of adequate equipment, and Swedish industry plays an important role here. These should therefore go hand in hand and not be handled separately. Mr. Old President! It could hardly have gone by the fact that defence equipment is expensive. Therefore, it is particularly important that the costs are known before an order takes place. All too often, various material projects are associated with large costs. These costs have almost always been dealt with within the existing framework, and those who have had to stand back when the costs have increased within the defence have almost always been the Swedish army. This is also stated by the Swedish National Audit Office in its report. But it has to stop. A clear way to define the cost of development and product at an early stage is something that in English is usually called design to cost– I have not found any good Swedish translation. This could reduce the negative surprises in terms of cost increases. In fact, there is more to be desired by the government here, namely that they use this principle for major material projects. We also think that the information and knowledge about the Swedish Armed Forces' entire stock of materials needs to be strengthened, which is also mentioned by the Swedish National Audit Office. This could be done through a structured inventory of bulk materials. Needs, asset and difference accounting could be one way of improving control. So it is not clear today what the status is as regards all the materials that are part of our armed forces. That work may be incredibly boring to do, but it is absolutely necessary, and it needs to get started as soon as possible. Mr. Old President! The Moderates and Christian Democrats wrote the accompanying motion just a few months ago. In addition to what I have just mentioned, we felt that the security situation required the defence committee to be called in and that we had to decide on reinforcements of the defence. Now we know the answer. The defense committee's been called up. Reinforcement of the defense comes in some form. We will continue to push the government ahead of us, and I hope that the government will also listen to the other aspects of our motion, because time is not on our side. It is now time to act. I would therefore like to endorse the Moderates' reservation number 2.
i-TnoLi4E2NqmLK8U6ytQLJh	Mr. Old President! Today we are debating the Swedish National Audit Office's report on building a national operational capability. It is good that we can debate it. If there is so much debate, I do not know, but there are some important points to make in this. It is about looking at the government's ability to lead and direct this work. As the previous speaker from the Moderates said, deficiencies in analysis, governance, planning and implementation can be identified. There the government and to some extent also the Swedish Armed Forces are failing. That's what the report says. What's the most important part of this? I think that the consequence of this is that the fighting forces are not developing properly. So they are not effective enough, Mr. Old President. It is extremely serious. It is also said that the possibilities for the army forces to solve their war tasks have deteriorated. In our view, this is extremely serious. So it limits the ability of the army forces to solve their war tasks because of the government's lack of analysis and so on. That is one of the most important things, I think, and the most serious thing I have read in a very long time in this regard. And there is still uncertainty about how to deal with this, according to the Swedish National Audit Office. What is the reason for all of this? There are many reasons. However, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I did not think that people are being changed, I was saying, in order to deal with these problems and to carry out an accurate analysis. I would like to go back to the under-financing of the previous defence decision. I know that Allan Widman, the Liberals, pointed this out at an early stage. I think he was the first to point out that it was underfunded. That's where he was right. Many others were hesitant. We in the Swedish Democrats have always put forward another budget, a much stronger budget, to pursue in terms of defence power. Just before Christmas we had 3 billion more than any other party, linked to military power. The Swedish National Audit Office also thinks it was underfunded. In relation to what? Yes, targets are set for the Armed Forces: you should achieve these goals. Yes, this is done in dialogue with, among other things, the Swedish Armed Forces. Then you separate, but you do not allocate resources for the Swedish Armed Forces to achieve the goals. It is clear that it is underfunded when setting targets but does not allocate resources. From our side, we have been clear about the following, and we have written this in our total defence movement: When you set the goals, you should also allocate resources to achieve the goals. If you do not do this, you have to change the objective. How hard can it be to do that analysis? But this is not done. You keep it, and you try to postpone various orders to find some kind of acceptance in the construction of defence capabilities. Here you have to redo and do the right thing. Now it is the government that is responsible. Then they will also have to face the consequences of this. We have written this in: If you have set the targets, you actually have to pass on the resources. Should this not be done for some reason, Mr President-in-Office, the objectives must be rewritten so that they are consistent with the resources allocated. We do not think it is very complicated to see it that way. Then I think something else, and on this, as far as I know, there is almost a consensus. The Green Party – and the V widow – must as usual have its mark in this paragraph, Mr President-in-Office. But it is a question of international efforts not being such as to adversely affect our own capacity for unit building. That's how it is, and that's how it's been. This means that we have almost one regimental officer abroad. But we have shortcomings in Sweden. That is a completely wrong priority. Then I would like to say that I am a little hesitant to conclude too hard that the financial or design to cost, which I think the Swedish National Audit Office was also working on, should be enough for this project. With an assigned economy, you're gonna get this. But it's hard to predict price changes, increases and perhaps changes in terms of technological development– can't we take this too while we're at it? Not in any way or at any time, but there is a trend that is constantly going on. If technology for 500 million more would mean that we are at the top of the line or that we have lace, how do you cover what comes perhaps two years after you have said that we should have this and this we buy? According to our view, one cannot be too hard when it comes to design to cost or the financial allocation being sufficient for the project, but one should be prepared to change it if one should find it necessary. Mr. Old President! I ask you to accept reservation 1. In conclusion, I would like to say that if the objective – defence capability – is determined, resources should also be allocated to achieve it. This calls very much to the government for reflection.
i-ME3LUCXU34Y9Akt22RRGaR	Mr. Old President! We have a whole new environment. The security situation continues to deteriorate for our country as well. In the light of recent developments, it is important to follow up what the Swedish National Audit Office has for comments and observations in relation to how the Government and the Swedish Armed Forces have implemented the 2015 defence decision. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that the operational capability of the army forces during the period 2016 – 2020 has not been developed in the manner expected by the Riksdag. There are several reasons for this, but the government has a great responsibility for the governance of the implementation. One reason the Swedish National Audit Office states is that the defence decision was underfunded. The Center Party was involved in negotiating that decision, but we have also been involved in this defence-oriented period and have implemented several additional financial decisions with reinforcements to the defence. We have also been involved in developing the conditions for the current defence decision up to 2025. The focus for us has been the whole country but also a lot of focus on the conditions of the army forces and a developed brigade structure. The Swedish National Audit Office writes that the government's governance in some parts has not been clear enough as the government has not explicitly requested brigades as war units. In addition, the Swedish National Audit Office writes that if the government had clearly asked for brigades, the Swedish Armed Forces' work would have been more effective, and costs associated with the fact that the battalions each need abilities that within the brigade would be shared could have been avoided. ..................................................... Another serious criticism brought forward by the Swedish National Audit Office is that costly costs within the essential security interests of Jas 39 E and the new generation submarine pushed away other material projects and that this affected not least the military forces, although the Swedish National Audit Office also notes that the essential security interests were difficult to save. Based on this, the Swedish National Audit Office makes two recommendations to the Government: firstly, to clarify the objectives and make them more follow-up; and secondly, to ensure that the ongoing projects within the essential security interests do not force the Swedish Armed Forces to make short-term re-priorities. These are not only issues that belong to the previous focus period, but they are also very topical today, based on the prerequisites to be able to carry out the ambitious increase in defence ability that the Riksdag decided on in December 2020, namely that every operation within the Swedish Armed Forces has the prerequisites based on decisions but also on upcoming additions to carry out its activities and develop the war organisation. The government has taken action, but these are not enough. We are in favour of what the defence decision states about the object framework for combat aircraft and underwater capability, and the government has stated in the letter that the investment plan in the 2022 budget bill has introduced it. Unfortunately, the government does not mention that it has limited the years for this, which affects both usability and follow-up traceability. The Government has also received an announcement from the Riksdag that they need to propose a framework for how much state investment in combat aircraft and underwater capabilities may cost all years until final delivery. Mr. Old President! We center parties believe that only when this is done can long-termness be achieved and the conditions possibly exist for the governance to be developed so that determined unit production and development of the army combat forces are not adversely affected by the management of projects that constitute essential security interests. It is worrying for the implementation of the defence decision and the priorities for the development of the army that the government is not clear on the long-term cost estimates of these essential security interests. Even now, in the Riksdag, we can sense that there may be an increase in costs within these coming years. Mr. Old President! In order for the Swedish National Audit Office not to once again, at the end of 2025, when we sum up the five years of current defence decisions, to have to state that the army forces have had to stand back due to cost increases in large material projects, the government needs to be more clearly related to both the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations and to the Riksdag's announcement. Mr. Old President! I request the approval of reservation 5.
i-JrEcGGMzeC6oRoXE5ghUPn	Mr. Old President! We are all following this minute by minute the heroic battle fought by the armed forces of Ukraine. I would like to stress that military forces are being fed both air and maritime defence very quickly, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, because when a military superpower attacks a small country. But the army forces have always shown perseverance and thus constitute a distinct war-resisting component in every military defence. No matter what the outcome of the war in Ukraine, Mr. President of the Age, the world that follows will in no way look like the one we are now leaving. There will be a cold war, and there will be harsh times for peace and security, not least on the European continent. One spring evening in 2015 the Liberals left the Ministry of Defence as a single party. We did so because we realised that what would now be materialised could never be materialised with the economy that this House awarded the defence decision in 2015. Already after a few months, the defense chiefs stated that they lacked about SEK 40 billion in their budget in order to succeed in the task. Mr. Old President! It is a stinging reckoning that the National Audit Office has with regard to our efforts to bring about the two fully equipped and conjoined brigades that would be the goal. It states that shortcomings have been identified in planning, analysis, governance and implementation. That is quite a comprehensive wording, if you will say so. It goes on to say that these shortcomings have led to the development of army units in a way that is not appropriate and that their ability to solve tasks in war has been limited. It is also stated that there is still uncertainty about how the brigades should be designed with personnel and equipment. The Swedish National Audit Office estimates that the 2015 defence decision was underfunded in relation to what the Swedish Armed Forces would achieve. Jas 39 Erik and the new generation submarine A26 have pushed other equipment projects away. I fully share Jörgen Berglund's view that it is the army forces that have normally paid for this party. The Swedish National Audit Office therefore finally considers that the army could not in reality achieve what the Riksdag and the Government expected. The Government's comments to the Swedish National Audit Office point to two conditions that will overcome the fact that we have historically paid for our essential security interests on current account. The government points out, among other things, design to cost, i.e. that one should stay within the distributed economy. But at the same time as the government writes this, Mr. Age President, we are presenting upsizings on our submarines of SEK 5.2 billion this autumn. One adopts a principle, but it is quite clear that one does not intend to live by it. Another thing you point out is that there will be object frames for combat aircraft and submarines. Like Daniel Bäckström, I can see that the object frames presented to Parliament extend two years in time. However, the delivery time for both combat aircraft and submarines is significantly later. Therefore, I do not believe that these object frameworks will have any effect on our essential security interests either. Mr. Old President! I find it a little sad that Peter Hultqvist is not in the Chamber today. He should be here to take responsibility for the breakdown pointed out by the National Audit Office. Mr. Old President! I request the approval of reservation 6.
i-AKi5ymCSY4BKLNR5Bdruzd	Mr. Old President! The Swedish Armed Forces are building up their national capabilities. It is extremely important that our air force, our marine and our army strengthen their capabilities. During the years 2014 and until 2025, when the defence decision 2015 ends, the financial resources increase by 80 per cent in the Swedish defence to increase national capabilities. This is the biggest increase since the 1950s. Even conscription is back. Swedish women and men can now also serve in the Swedish Armed Forces. Five new regiments will be set up and a new flotilla. Major investments and renewal of the Swedish weapons systems are taking place as well as a significant increase in practice activities for the Swedish Armed Forces. There are also increased collaborations with other countries – some twenty new collaborations, where Finland is foremost. Why are we doing this? That question may not need to be asked today. We know that men and women fight for their lives in Ukraine. The European security situation has changed dramatically. This is something that we in the Committee on Defence have seen for a long time. But I think we were all a little surprised by the total and disgusting attack that is now taking place on Ukraine. Only Russia and its leadership are responsible for this, no one else. I also think it is quite serious that threats are also being made to the rest of Europe, to countries outside the alliance, and that we in Sweden feel that we should not be allowed to make our own decisions. I think it goes without saying that we should be allowed to make our own decisions about what to do. This means that the investment and rearmament that we have made in the Swedish defence is quite right. That's quite right. Further discussions are now taking place. The defense committee's up and running. And I am quite convinced that further resources will be provided in the future. We will bring forward and work to strengthen Swedish defence capabilities. That is absolutely correct. The Swedish National Audit Office has looked at this, and it is their report that we are discussing today. What I would really like to say is that it takes time to build national capabilities. It's not something you do in a day, a week or a year. It'll take quite a while. New materials are to be put in place, and people are to be trained. I'd guess it'll take a year to train a soldier. And I imagine it'll take two years to train an officer who can train soldiers. This is something that takes time and will take time. I do not think that can be changed in any way. Otherwise, we will have a lower quality of our Swedish defence force. Sometimes I think it spreads a picture that our essential security interests are the big problem, that it is the most evil among evil. I don't know if that's the case. I don't think so. It is clear that Jas 39 Gripen Erik is a fighter aircraft that is extremely important for Swedish defence capabilities. The A26 submarine is also important. It is a unique competence that we possess in Sweden. We operate in the Baltic Sea region. The type of competence we have in the submarine area we will continue to develop. I think that will be of great benefit to the army forces. Then, of course, I fully agree with the Swedish National Audit Office that the economy should of course be managed in a good way. We shall ensure that we manage the budgets that we have drawn up. And it will be delivered on time. That's it. I believe that in the defence decision that has been taken, the government has set targets for this. The Government has also set up a material supply strategy investigation that will present a report in May 2022. There you look at the defence industry, the economy, security of supply, export subsidies and so on. So of course the government is working on these issues. I share the view that the objectives we set ourselves in Parliament should be followed by the authorities. But we must respect the fact that it takes time to build national capabilities. Mr. Old President! I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-6kFkdz3CBWrMvMZcf9Jfvj	Mr. Old President! Do the Social Democrats share the view that objectives and means should be linked, as the honourable Member has just said? Now they don't. If the Swedish Armed Forces and others think that they are not connected, what is the focus of the Social Democrats? We have previously had goals for the Swedish Armed Forces. You do not live up to these goals, because you lack resources. Are the Social Democrats prepared to rewrite the objectives of the Swedish Armed Forces or to allocate resources to achieve the goals? This is an important question to answer. I'll take it first, so you can think a little bit while I speak further. Even if we are now sending weapons – tubes like these that are carried on the body or over the shoulder – and contribute in every way to Ukraine with these long pipes, it is important to build up the supplies, which we are now doing. It is also important to link this with the civilian elements of emergency stocks. The oil, which we will hopefully get down into various rock rooms, is also linked to the resources to be able to run a defence for a longer period of time. These additives cannot be stored for long. These are important elements that I want you to take with you. I will come back to this question later.
i-46ud8k1jfPRcJcmZtbBZv4	Madam President, I would like I think that increased operational capacity is the most important thing and that we should invest in it. In the defence decision we took in 2020, the government has set clear and follow-up targets for the Swedish Armed Forces. It is clear that there is a constant need to monitor how these objectives are being met. If they are not met, it is possible that other measures must be taken; I think that we should be completely open to that. We should also see more clearly how the investment plans that lie ahead are, followed up and fulfilled. Do we need to do something? Surely it is always an obligation to follow up what the authorities do and how it works, so that it can be better in every way possible. In the end, the purpose of this is for us to increase operational capacity and for our national defence capabilities to be better. Speaking of the second question raised by Roger Richthoff, it was clear by yesterday evening, when the Prime Minister gave a speech to the nation, that the Swedish total defence capability needs to be strengthened. This also includes the civilian side and the livelihood of the population. Now that we see the great conflict going on in Ukraine, just two hours of air travel from here, we also see that it is extremely important to have the resources to face this and protect the civilian population.
i-CyA2owd4U8RdqLMtALbQb2	Madam President, I would like I do not think I received an answer from the honourable Member to the question of objectives and resources. It has been quite well known for several years that it does not believe that there has been sufficient allocation of the budget – including money – to achieve the goals, such as defence, that are set. The question remains: Are you in the Social Democrats prepared to rewrite the objectives of the Armed Forces and total defence capabilities? If you are not, the conclusion is reasonable that we should provide the resources needed to achieve the objectives that have been set. I would like a clearer answer in that paragraph. Madam President, I would like From our side, what I can remember, we have said all these years that the Swedish defence capability should be strong. Total defence should be built strongly over time and not depend on the day form in Russia. You will be aware of this; I have said this many times, and I think it is just as right today as before. Sweden decides its own security policy, regardless of which line Sweden chooses. As I said, it takes time to build this up. I would like to come back to something that has nothing to do with this debate but has to do with total defence. In addition to strengthening the army forces, the army commander, as the National Audit Office says, should be given a clearer responsibility – we fully share that view. But do the Social Democrats think that consideration should now be given to the rapid introduction of a civil obligation, linked to the total defence, which also benefits the Swedish Armed Forces? This goes a little beyond the subject we are discussing, Madam President, but it is still important in this context.
i-A7HYZ74daD7hLqNt8EqakV	Madam President, I would like Since the end of the Cold War in 1989-1990, the Swedish defence has largely been dismantled, and the Swedish civil defence has been phased out even more. I think that we should be a little cautious about criticising what decisions others took 30 years ago – it is always easy to tell afterwards how they should have done and not done. I myself remember how one reasoned at the time; one saw that eternal peace was there. But when we stand here today, it is clear that this is not the case. This is also the reason why the last two detention decisions since the Social Democratic Government took office have invested a great deal in building national capabilities and increasing the operational capacity of Swedish defence. Nor is it a little bit – when this defence decision is coming to an end, it is about 90 billion or perhaps even more. What do I know about the development? I also think we need to be aware that it takes time. I think Mr Richthoff also understands that it takes time to educate young Swedish women and men. We can use as much financial resources as possible, but this takes its little time. We also need resources. We will constantly review the goals we have set ourselves. Do they need to change? Do we need new resources to reach them? During the previous defence decision, we actually added new resources in each budget season. I think you should be open to it. I also think that one should have respect for the challenge of building ability and that it should be right from the start.
i-8MUamC6d1f8ZhPnESfPui8	Madam President, I would like Mattias Ottosson represents the constituency of Östergötland. During my almost 20 years in the Defence Committee, Östergötland has always had a representative in the committee, and it is therefore quite natural for Mattias Ottosson to cherish our essential security interests with emphasis on combat aircraft. I also think our VSIs are extremely important. Sweden is a strategic military island, which means that an attacker must come over or on the surface of the Baltic Sea. Then we have our remote combat forces to strike him in a vulnerable position. But fighter planes and submarines can't push everything else away. Today, Madam President, we are the only country on earth that, in any case, has more combat aircraft than cannons. This is quite unique, and it is an expression of the indecently small army that Sweden has managed to maintain. The Social Democrats want to take credit for the 2020 defence decision and the large increase in funding. I was present throughout that process, Madam President, and I note that the Social Democrats consistently said no to every penny that was inserted into the defence decision. Peter Hultqvist wrote debate articles in Aftonbladet about how the pandemic made investments in our military defence impossible. In any case, the credit is not just that of the Social Democrats.
i-RkrRppUkhsR7CKmnLgUgLM	Madam President, I would like I think we should be extremely proud of our defence industry and the close cooperation we have between the Swedish defence industry, the Swedish state and the Swedish Armed Forces. We're not doing this just for fun. We do it because it is extremely advanced and good products that are offered. I am quite proud of the production that takes place in Karlskrona, Linköping, Karlskoga and Örnsköldsvik. It is an enormous competence that we possess, and I think we should take advantage of it. I also believe that the Swedish army forces benefit tremendously from the fact that we have that competence. That Allan Widman is very hesitant about the Swedish defence industry is of course a trend that I recognize. But I believe that the skills, know-how and forward spirit that are there are of benefit to the Swedish Armed Forces and for the opportunity to build Swedish national capabilities.
i-MfjXERApUBz9R1bcoDh6xR	Madam President, I would like I think it was about 15 years ago that a researcher at the Swedish Defence University, under a bold headline in one of our newspapers, wrote that Sweden must choose – either we choose the operational effect or we choose to be the final suppliers of combat aircraft and submarines. One could well already see the difficulties for a small country in being the final supplier of two of the most qualified platforms that normally exist in a military defence. It is my view that in the long term this will be completely impossible. In a previous replica between Mattias Ottosson and Roger Richthoff, I heard Mattias Ottosson say that it is the operational ability that should be put first. But when I listen carefully, I do not really think that is the priority that Mattias Ottosson or, for that matter, our Minister for Defence does. Our essential security interests are important, but they are now in danger of crowding out the last of our country's land combat capabilities. Once again, Madam President, there is nothing more war keeping than having a decently large army. Then an attacker is forced to enter the ground, and it is associated with completely different risks, completely different timings and financial resources than firing cruise missiles or ballistic missiles at a distance.
i-PLUmFozxfYGXPmMNzpiciE	Madam President, I would like It is clear that our armed forces will defend the country and that we will have as good an operational capacity as possible. If it gets serious, everything has to work. Then I think it's all connected. Swedish combat flying ability is not entirely irrelevant, nor is it Swedish underwater ability. We have a special competence in this area. I think it will be of full benefit to us if anything should happen. I don't understand why these things have to be in contradiction with each other. Sweden is well-equipped to have a well-equipped army, a well-equipped air force and a well-equipped marine? That's what builds operational capability. This is what makes Sweden stronger and enables us to face external threats and feel safe.
i-MJcjPUf6BuHgToqZyWGrnS	Madam President, I would like As so often when we discuss defense with a social democrat, these almost pompous expressions: Since we entered the Government Office, this has happened – everything has become so much better! It is as if the reason is that the Social Democrats came to the Government Office. But the real reason is that the world situation has deteriorated significantly. As Mr Widman pointed out, everyone is aware of the Social Democrats' opposition to these defence searches. Nevertheless, I must say that Mattias Ottosson is modest in his descriptions, which is honorable. He's got party colleagues who tend to go on a lot worse. I would like to ask Mattias Ottosson if the Social Democrats share the Swedish National Audit Office's view that the 2015 defence decision was underfunded in relation to what the Swedish Armed Forces would achieve. I think it is important to be honest about what we can learn from history for the future. My second question is this: is it the view of the Social Democrats that we can already state that the current period will be underfunded and that we will have to raise funds? My third question may be disconnected from the previous two, but the subject has been raised here in the debate. The government claims to report the so-called object frames. You do that two years at a time. What is the reason, according to Mattias Ottosson, that we should not account for them during the entire delivery period? It will be impossible to follow up and plan if we do not know for more than two years at a time.
i-UD3gAkygp6D78PYc1sJBmL	Madam President, I would like The world changes started earlier than 2015. The Russian aggression against Georgia took place as early as 2008. In 2014, the attack was on Crimea. The defense decision came in 2015. As I remember – and I don't think I remember wrong – other governments ruled until 2014. The changes in the outside world took place earlier. Nevertheless, I think it should be said that with the defence decision in 2015, we took a new step. It was a defense decision that moderates and center parties were behind. It is, of course, respectful that we can have such a consensus when making such important decisions. The development we have had since 2014 and the development we have had in recent weeks also make Swedish consensus even more important. This can always change. After the 2015 defense decision, we've discovered that we have more flaws than we thought. Then we have also changed the defence budget year after year. More resources have been added. As I recall, we have quite agreed in this House that more resources are needed. I have every respect for the tremendous armaments that we are doing now with the latest defence decision. But the development of the world can affect this. Things may arise that in future we need to increase resources in order to achieve the objectives. It may even be that we need to review the goals we have and set higher and more powerful targets. I think you should be humbled for the future. We do not really know what it will bring, so we need to be prepared.
i-AW6tzjyTvvq2NYyJL6VSWz	Madam President, I would like Mattias Ottosson is of course right – there were already clear signs before 2014 that the world situation changed and that Russia's aggressiveness increased. This makes the attitude of the Social Democrats at the time even more incomprehensible. By 2010, elections were held with the Left and the Green Party, demanding that the United States withdraw all troops from Europe – if we are to speak history. It also called for lower defence appropriations. But let us not get caught up in history! As I said, after all, I think that Mattias Ottosson has had a modest rhetoric on these issues, which I appreciate. We're going to look ahead. I did not quite understand why it would be a good idea that the object frames for the large material projects should only be presented two years at a time. I don't understand it intellectually. Why is this a better idea than to account for the object frames throughout the delivery time? The latter would make things quite easier for us in the Riksdag, as it is the task of the Riksdag to monitor and control the decisions taken by the Government. Why isn't it a good idea, according to Mattias Ottosson?
i-JzGvmbiMf8dUzPGqoxuwR	Madam President, I would like We should not get caught up in the history description, but my picture is that it was then the chairman of the Defence Committee now Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist who was the first to mark that Swedish defence policy had to be changed. It was a bit of a mess in the defence committee that worked out the 2015 decision. But, as I said, we should not just look back but forward, and in accordance with the last defence decision, a material investigation has been set up to look at this. Yes, you should be self-critical, and we have had problems with the costs that have gone away and that deliveries have not taken place in time. The investigation is now working fully and is linked to a parliamentary group so that politics is also involved in this. I am a friend of having as much transparency, transparency and clear plans as possible – of course without compromising national security. The investigation is due in May, and we'll see what it lands in. After that, decisions are to be taken, and I think it is important to have as much consensus and transparency as possible in terms of investment, including for taxpayers so that they can see that we are spending the money on the right things.
i-3qCt5Ub6R9CP5uQuyP2KkP	Madam President, I would like Based on the current security situation and with war in Europe, Sweden's defence capabilities need to be strengthened. A better intelligence capability, including increased conditions for carrying out signal reconnaissance, is crucial for that. We need to have better knowledge of the threats, risks and vulnerabilities that exist in relation to Sweden's security. The threats to Sweden are cross-border, and we must face them together with like-minded countries. This is why international defence intelligence cooperation is crucial to Sweden's security. We therefore welcome the strengthening of the possibilities for international cooperation on defence intelligence. This will enable us to identify and respond to military threats, hybrid threats and terrorist attacks together with others at an early stage. At the same time, it is important that these collaborations are made available to more people through increased transparency. Therefore, together with the Christian Democrats and the Liberals, we propose that a special account of international cooperation should be made in the so-called letter 70 on privacy protection when signaling in defence intelligence activities. Madam President, I would like Signal reconnaissance is one of the most important tools for the Swedish security and intelligence services and ultimately strengthens Swedish security in a troubled environment. At the same time, it is a tool that must be used with great respect for personal integrity. Signal reconnaissance must therefore be surrounded by a strict and transparent regulatory framework that guarantees this, and it is doing so today. Sweden has a highly regulated signal intelligence service with clear rules for licensing and follow-up. Permission to conduct signal reconnaissance is subject to review by the Defence Intelligence Court. A permit shall specify, inter alia, the pick-up orders for which the signal search may take place, the signal carriers and search concepts that may be used and the other conditions for limiting the intrusion into the personal integrity of individuals. The government inspection for defence intelligence activities, Siun, is the authority responsible for verifying that the defence intelligence activities carried out by the Swedish Armed Forces, the Swedish Defence Radio Agency, the FRA, the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration and the Swedish Defence Research Institute are carried out in accordance with the regulations laid down by the Swedish Parliament and the Government. At the FRA there is a Privacy Council. The members of the Council are appointed by the Government and follow how the Authority deals with privacy issues. This strong protection of privacy also applies to international cooperation. Siun has pointed out that the fact that foreign intelligence or security services may be granted direct access by the Swedish Armed Forces to personal data processed in defence intelligence activities and contained in data collections creates a risk of increased privacy breach for individuals. We have therefore proposed that the Government should pay particular attention to privacy issues in the forthcoming comprehensive review of the Signals Watching Act that the Government has previously announced. Madam President, I would like I would like to stress the importance of the comprehensive review of the Signals Peer Act being carried out soon. The law is more than ten years old, and although it has been updated a number of times, there is reason to carry out a broad review. Increased digitalisation has led to greater risks and vulnerabilities in the cyber arena, and there are extensive information operations of foreign power. It happened yesterday, it is happening today and it will continue to happen in the future. New players have also emerged in the arena, such as the Swedish Agency for Psychological Defense, which could need to be alerted. This also applies to the Inspection of Strategic Products, ISP, which has been given a changed assignment that requires a better situational picture. The issue of being able to carry out signal reconnaissance where both transmitters and receivers are located in Sweden, which is not currently permitted, should also be given special consideration. One must be able to follow actors who may be suspected of preparing for a terrorist attack in Sweden or who engage in spying against Swedish interests even when the relevant actors enter Sweden. As has been said, the comprehensive review of the Signal Stocking Act should be launched as a matter of urgency in view of the current situation. Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist announced on 20 October 2020 that the government intended to set up an investigation that would take a holistic approach to the Signals Paging Act. Since then, we have heard nothing, and no investigation directives have been presented. We therefore propose, in reservation 3, that the government urgently begin this overall review. I shall conclude by calling for the approval of reservation number 3.
i-SAFmQxPXYz1BiCuNrUEwPD	Madam President, I would like Until now, signal reconnaissance has had as a condition that it should concern threats to Sweden or Swedish interests. However, this was changed by the Riksdag during the autumn, and now we can engage in international cooperation regarding signal reconnaissance without requiring threats to Sweden. This may mean a substantial extension of the FRA's mandate to conduct signal reconnaissance. We Liberals in Parliament opposed this increased opportunity, but now that the Moderates are proposing in a motion that a special account of international cooperation be made, we are fully on board. Madam President, I would like That is why I am in favour of reservation number 1.
i-HFs9zdFK6vxrTa4FGFXHv5	Madam President, I would like We are debating the report on the protection of privacy in signalling in defence intelligence activities. It is a case based on the Government's annual letter. Let me begin by calling for the committee's proposal in its entirety and rejecting all reservations. Madam President, I would like The development of the last few weeks has shown the importance of a well-functioning intelligence operation. The greatly deteriorating security developments in our neighbourhood also demonstrate the importance of close cooperation with our international partners. Let me emphasise that our focus on days like these is on Ukraine and the Ukrainian population. It is an extremely frightening development that is taking place in our immediate vicinity and is totally unacceptable. Madam President, I would like This debate is, in principle, a yearly one for my own part in this House. I usually stress the crucial importance of intelligence for Sweden's security, its importance for us to understand what is happening and happening in our surrounding world, its importance for preventing and hopefully preventing the occurrence of various crises and conflicts and, as I said and not least, how important it is for the international collaborations we are involved in. Signal reconnaissance activities are a necessary and integrated part of Sweden's defence and protection against terrorism. Ultimately, it is a question of defending the democratic and civil rights on which we have built our country. I note that the committee agrees with the government that signalling activities are a necessary and integrated part of Sweden's defence and protection against terrorism and that a democratic rule of law requires a proper functioning of privacy protection in this context. In the past, not least last autumn, when the mandate was extended in the field of international cooperation, I have highlighted and highlighted the overall review announced in the framework of the Signalling Act. It forms part of the total defence decision that we took in this House just over a year ago. I note, like the majority of the committee and in the light of what the government says and the information it has gathered from the Government Office, that no further action needs to be taken at the moment. Finally, Madam President, the letter deals with the activities carried out in 2020. I note that the committee agrees with the government that the system for protecting personal integrity in this area operates in the manner provided for in the legislation.
i-S31ph5Nj5cNft1TW4rxPzs	Madam President, I would like I reacted to one detail. When ClasGöran Carlsson so clearly and firmly urged rejection of all reservations, I became a little curious. This means that he does not think that the investigation and review of the signal reconnaissance teams should be carried out promptly. Perhaps that is how I shall interpret Peter Hultqvist's statement from August 2020, that it will but that it will not happen in the near future, despite the deteriorating world situation.
i-7MeeHsv7HuSX3vqGz1QKAN	Madam President, I would like I don't think I used the phrase that it shouldn't be done as a matter of urgency. I share the view that the review of the Signal Stocking Act is absolutely necessary. I am absolutely convinced that it will also come in the near future. That is why I do not think the committee needs to put the government on its nose in this case and tell us that it is urgent.
i-Qcbuv1532ARSur2JaZUgjy	Madam President, I would like It's no secret that I'm happy to put the government on my nose, but that's my job, I think. I would like to take this opportunity to ask ClasGöran Carlsson something. Maybe I'll hook up a little bit with the rejection. I can understand the first thing. Does this mean that the Social Democrats are also not prepared to discuss increasing the number of authorities that can carry out signal reconnaissance? For example, I mentioned the Agency for Psychological Defense and the ISP as possible authorities. Is this also something where we have to wait and see, as so often with this government?
i-1fomR8NfAaMYbN87htrWe	Madam President, I would like I also see that more authorities will be subject to the possibility of monitoring. Let me send you a well-meaning word in all simplicity. I think it was the case that 15 years ago, we Social Democrats used the point of speech a little late. It didn't work for us, and I don't think it's gonna work for the Moderates either.
i-2b6MjRbBZwBgunbDVWdAGb	Madam President, I would like The role of civil society is perhaps best seen in crises. During the pandemic, associations, networks and people have joined forces and taken a step forward and helped. In the Ukraine of the War, we now see how networks, people on a civil basis and temporary associations provide support to the vulnerable. They organize, support and comfort. In Sweden, too, we see how civil society is showing its strength these days. You create groups that arrange help, you organise demonstrations, you help with information, you take responsibility for explaining to children and you prepare the reception of asylum seekers to be as good as possible when this happens. One important conclusion of this is that civil society is a central part of society. It is built from below, with the state as a complement. This is important both in quiet times and in times of unrest, but it is perhaps most noticeable in crisis. Another conclusion of what we are now seeing in civil society is that it is difficult to manage and that it is good that it is difficult to manage. In times of unrest, flexibility has been very useful. The networks that are emerging are sometimes experts at doing something, but sometimes it is also experts who do something completely different from what they are experts on. The flexibility that exists in civil society is incredibly important for society to function, including in crisis. We saw the same thing in 2015 when associations that actually had completely different things on their agendas changed and made sure that we managed the refugee wave that came then. One important lesson from this, Madam President, I believe is to safeguard self-worth. Of course, it is tempting to see the power that exists in civil society and try to use it for what it thinks is important right now. Whether it is climate change, integration or anything else, it is very attractive to see that civil society is strong, diverse and everywhere and can be used. But if you do not protect self-worth, you will ultimately lose the power of civil society. The instrumental way in which one sometimes has towards association means that in the end it risks losing its own value and thus the power that one could use it for. We must ensure that self-worth is safeguarded and recognise and welcome the creation of an added value that can be used for other purposes. Madam President, I would like I am liberal and am therefore based on the individual. Sometimes it is thought that this means ignoring civil society. The history of liberalism has much been about identifying obstacles to individual freedom, combating such obstacles and ensuring that individuals have more say in their lives. It has sometimes been about limiting state power, ensuring that we have freedom of expression and increasing business freedom, but it has also been about considering what social standards exist in society and which hinder the freedom of individuals. Some have come to the conclusion that this means that liberals create a society of lonely people, combat social norms and structures and thus leave people alone. I think that is the wrong conclusion, because even liberals realise that man is a social being who needs social networks and who needs to belong to a context. Therefore, liberalism is not the ideology of loneliness. It does not stand for the loneliness of the individual, but for her freedom. This freedom also means being able to opt out of bad communities, bad associations and bad social contexts. Instead of being stuck in these or being alone and facing loneliness, one should be able to meet other open communities. From this point of view, civil society is very important for liberals, Madam President. The need to be able to leave a context that is oppressive, not being forced to remain in it, should be met not only by choosing loneliness but also by choosing a different context. That is why liberals protect civil society. Madam President, I would like The pandemic has changed the conditions for civil society, just as for many other parts of our society. It has been difficult to meet, and it has been difficult to use some of the financing models you usually have for your business. They have taken on completely new tasks that they did not know they would do. It is important that we closely monitor the state of civil society following the pandemic, and I believe that we need good conditions for a fairly long period of re-starting and reconstruction. Many of the motions dealt with in this report are about curbing cheating and inaccuracies, and that is incredibly important. When we give state aid to something, we must ensure that the money is used properly. Therefore, it is important to keep track of the money, that errors are not committed and that there is no cheating. Some motions also discuss the importance of democracy conditions. I think it is important, and the Liberals want one. Of course, civil society and associations should not use the money they receive from the state to undermine democracy. But I would also like to say that democracy conditions are quite difficult precisely for civil society to remain free. As I look out over the world, I can also say that the power that exists in civil society in terms of democracy can be used in both directions. It can truly strengthen democracy and strengthen dialogue in society, but it can also be used to turn society in a non-democratic direction. In fact, in recent years we have seen a wave of dedemocraticism in parts of the world, and in this wave civil society has often been used for the authoritarian purpose. It has often begun to restrict and control the media, and research shows that it has then moved on to try to restrict or turn civil society in a certain direction. Sometimes civil society organisations are also used to polarise the debate in society, because they then feel they need a strong leader. That shows the power of civil society and how it can be used both in good and evil. My conclusion, Madam President, is that we should have good conditions for civil society. We shall have a diversity of civil society associations, associations and networks, and we shall have arm's length distance to these. They're supposed to be free. It is important to have a free civil society and good conditions. It is also important to steer in a smart way, i.e. maintain arm's length. With that, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 2, Madam President. I would also like to extend warm thanks to the civil society we have in Sweden and the major, important efforts they are making right now.
i-7HA5euRynGMuqmGoDeWVD5	Madam President, I would like A strong Sweden needs both public activities and business and voluntary communities, such as associations, parishes and not least families. Civil society is of great importance for cohesion and democracy. Right now, in the troubled time we are going through, we naturally feel that we are close to civil society. Civil society also contributes to good standards and values and that we develop between generations. Civil society organisations can also play a concrete role in different areas of society, for example in the work to break exclusion and contribute to a Sweden that stays together. Madam President, I would like The good society we create together. The Moderates believe that some of the responses to the challenges we see in today's society are in deeper and improved cooperation between schools, healthcare, social services, care for the elderly, culture and civil society. There are great opportunities to make use of each other and of each other's knowledge and commitment. However, it requires clear political signals that this is a priority and important work. State support for civil society is important and should continue. However, in order for the aid to be considered legitimate, the scheme must be transparent. The eligibility criteria shall be clear and there shall be a thorough examination and follow-up of the use made of the aid. Tax money should never be paid out to organisations that do not share the fundamental democratic values of Swedish society. Madam President, I would like We want to ensure that public funds are not allocated to activities that risk promoting or supporting radicalisation, honour repression or violent extremism. The fact that aid is simply wasted on projects that are not being implemented is also unacceptable and, unfortunately, shortcomings in this area have been revealed. The Moderates take this very seriously. In the long term, of course, it is devastating for the legitimacy of state support for civil society but also for the community of society. Legislation, regulatory framework and working methods should be reviewed to the extent necessary to ensure the effective use of support to civil society. The fact that civil society is able to finance its activities through sources of income other than State aid is also important for its independence. For example, it may give an organisation greater freedom to determine which actions should be prioritised rather than to decide the order of priority in relation to the type of State aid available. Madam President, I would like In March 2014, the Alliance government presented the bill Alla's knowledge – everyone's education. The bill included a new goal formulation for state education policy that clarifies the state's ambitions with politics and that the target group of adult education is wider than the target group for adult education. The bill also presented a new model for evaluation of population formation and its effects. The Alliance Government also commissioned Statskontoret to hold the evaluation together with support from the Institute for Labour Market and Education Policy Evaluation and the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis. In the final report, Statskontoret made the assessment that folk high schools and study associations need to develop several areas in order to really become a popular education in time. The common strength of public education is, among other things, the special pedagogy that allows people to access knowledge on their own terms and in an inclusive community. A common challenge is how to reach peoples' education outside their traditional target groups. Madam President, I would like There seems to be strong evidence that the State, through the Council of Peoples Education, finances a study association with links to the Muslim Brotherhood, and this despite the fact that the purpose of the support under the regulation on state aid for the formation of people is to support activities that contribute to the strengthening and development of democracy. The Moderates see no fundamental reason why study associations should not be based on a religious basis; on the contrary, many religiously based organisations are an important part of our civil society. On the other hand, the state cannot and should not fund organisations that challenge Western liberal democracy. Therefore, the Riksdag should urge the Government to tighten up the democratic conditions in the regulation on state grants for the formation of people so that grants cannot be awarded to democratically dubious study associations. Both benefit systems and supervision of study associations must be regularly evaluated. Today, the Folkbildningsrådet has an authority-like mission while being a non-profit association made up of the members to whom contributions are distributed. This may lead to a lack of supervision and incorrect grant payments. Statskontoret also points in its report to the need for better governance. On several occasions, it has been shown that many study associations have been subjected to fraud where the same participants have occurred in several study circles and associations at the same time. We have spoken about this earlier in this House, including in the autumn of 2020 when it was discovered in the Järva activities. Therefore, strengthening both grant support and supervision should come about, and instead of lying with the Folkbildningsrådet, this should be brought together under a joint umbrella with the other civil society and handled by an authority. In this way, the State would probably be able to gain better transparency and control of both compliance with the rules and the use of the subsidies. Madam President, I would like Folkbildning needs to match its activities with developments in society. The study associations reach many different groups, but these are often groups that are already organised. It is a challenge to get an interaction so that you really get the people that you want to get to the education. In recent years, the discussion on government contributions to both faiths and other civil society organisations has taken a large place. There are several examples of organisations that have received criticism and also received state subsidies withdrawn. Contributions to organisations formed on an ethnic basis are regulated by a specific regulation, the regulation on state grants to organisations formed on an ethnic basis. It provides, inter alia, as a condition of support, for members to have a predominantly foreign background, for membership to be at least 1 000 paying persons and for the organisation to have a democratic structure. Madam President, I would like Of course, people of similar ethnic background should be free to form their own associations with their own resources. However, the fact that the state supports such organisations is another matter. State subsidies should focus on activities that clearly promote integration rather than gathering people solely on the basis that they share a certain ethnicity. Therefore, contributions to organisations formed solely on an ethnic basis should be abolished. Madam President, I would like The Moderates agree with all of us expressed reservations, but for the gain of time we only ask for reservation 7.
i-75yHEwCVu9TpnRk6TxRLKv	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin my speech by calling for the approval of reservation 9 from the Swedish Democrats, although, of course, I support all our reservations in the report. We have an important debate here today on civil society in Sweden. It is a debate on the parties' proposals on how to protect and create good conditions for civil society, and there, of course, we make different priorities. The Coronapandemia has had a huge impact on civil society in Sweden for about two years. Indeed, the pandemic has set the agenda in this area with vigour. Just as the pandemic began to phase out somewhat from the debate, Europe and the world saw a new disaster, albeit of a completely different kind. However, in relation to the international situation and the terrible war that is taking place in Ukraine – in another part of Europe not far from here – much else of what we are debating seems small and insignificant. That is why, of course, I would like to say a few words about Ukraine today, focusing on the role of civil society during the ongoing war. The fact that civil society in Sweden has been activated in support of people in Ukraine is clear; I do not think it has escaped anyone that this is the case. I am thinking not only of formal organisations with organisational numbers and everything that belongs to, but also of spontaneous associations between people that have arisen right now in the midst of the crisis – from distinctive relief organisations to social media support groups. Swedish civil society has joined in support of the Ukrainian people in many different ways. It's about sending money, food, clothes and much more. Civil society is a strong force of its own to count on in Sweden, and the seriousness of what is going on now reminds us how important it is to conduct a wise civil society policy that can further contribute to the flourishing of constructive forces in civil society. Madam President, I would like On the ground in Ukraine, civil society is also absolutely crucial. When people gather in associations, it is not uncommon for them to do so for pleasures and hobbies. But civil society can also literally be the difference between life and death. It shows people in Ukraine now. Civil society actors collect donations to fund defence equipment for the military in Ukraine. They join forces to help each other transport to safe places in or out of the country. You join together and teach each other things, such as how to separate Russian tanks from Ukrainian or how to make weapons to defend yourself. It is not easy to admit that it looks like this, but that is the reality for barely a week. Civil society is a crucial part of the resistance in Ukraine for those who remain in the country and are fighting for their future and for survival. Let us hope that there will soon be an end to this destruction and killing, and let us do what we can to bring it to an end as soon as possible. I could talk a long time about what is happening in Ukraine. It's on everyone's lips in different ways, for natural reasons. But I shall also deal more specifically with what the report is about. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats have several reservations in the report. An important one is the one I called for initially. It concerns the state contribution to organisations formed on an ethnic basis. It is a grant awarded by the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society, MUCF. For many years, the Swedish Democrats have been wanting to phase out this outdated contribution, even though several parties have now begun to wake up to something on the subject. We just heard, for example, the Moderates earlier talk about the same thing. One requirement for an organisation to be able to apply for this state grant is that it has a majority share of members with a foreign background. This is a contribution which, in a way, requires people to separate themselves from the majority society. Not least, the contribution is inappropriate because it risks fattening and strengthening the problem of parallel societies in Sweden. As most of us know, this is a huge problem. The political line we should take is instead to focus and resources on people adapting, entering Sweden and becoming part of the majority society rather than segregation ethnically. Moreover, the present state grant has repeatedly proved to be for inappropriate purposes, such as extremism and other destructive things. Only a few months ago, it was reported that an organisation which denied by MUCF the state contribution to organizations formed on an ethnic basis was the Azerbaijani National League, due to links with the Turkish extremist organisation Grey wolves. Madam President, I would like Another important issue concerning civil society is the question of democracy conditions, as the Swedish Democrats have several proposals in the report. It is reported that a bill in this area will be on Parliament's table before the summer in order to be discussed by the House only after the summer. The former red-green, now red, government has unfortunately really managed to drag the question of democracy conditions in the long bench despite the fact that there is a fire in the knots. It should also be said that the Swedish Democrats want to go tougher than the government wants to do when looking at what has been initiated through various investigations. It is unfortunately the case in Sweden that Islamists and other forms of extremists move forward their positions with the help of our tax millions. There are countless examples of this, of which the case of the study association Ibn Rushd is one. However, more and more municipalities are setting their foot in this matter. As late as the end of January, Linköping City Council decided to freeze the grant to Ibn Rushd after a motion from the Swedish Democrats, among others signed. But from the state side, from the government, unfortunately, we are behind. Madam President, I would like During this Parliamentary session, the Swedish Democrats have also put forward a number of proposals in a committee motion to create better conditions for civil society regarding the regulatory framework for tax reduction for gifts, the so-called gift tax deduction. These proposals are being dealt with by the Committee on Taxation, but they are still issues that very much concern civil society, which is why I would like to emphasise this here today. In the motion mentioned above, the Swedish Democrats propose, among other things, to investigate raising the limit within the framework for the gift tax deduction and to investigate the possibility of including more types of public benefit purposes in the regulatory framework. In Sweden, there are many civil society actors who receive public funding through the state, through municipalities and through regions. At the same time, various types of financial support such as donations from individuals are of great importance to actors in Swedish civil society. Developing the gift tax deduction can enable Swedish civil society to stand stronger and become more independent. That is why, in my opinion and the Swedish Democrats, this is a very urgent task.
i-EJCRcTfGtfLwTZiAEW6bnU	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Center Party's reservation 10. We are in a situation where issues that we normally think are of great importance to discuss and debate for a week now seem almost insignificant. We have quickly got a different perspective on what is important and what matters, as we now see a brutal and incomprehensible war in our vicinity. But discussing civil society still makes sense. Having a strong civil society when there is a crisis of some kind always proves to be a big part, and I am convinced that we will see it again. We have already seen how civilian volunteers have begun to organise themselves with the collection of clothing and supplies that might be needed both on site in Ukraine and for those who come to us on the run from the war. Having a well-functioning civil society and the opportunity to engage in a living civil society is important for individuals, who can contribute time and knowledge according to their circumstances. It is also important to be involved in planning and organizing something that you are passionate about, both for individuals and for those who are allowed to take part in the activities that are being organised. To feel belonging and do something meaningful for one's home country or neighbor is strengthening and instructive. I also hope, Madam President, that it is really fun. Engagement in associations and civil society organisations also contributes to community and association habits, which is very important for our society as a whole. Here we are learning democracy. The Coronapandemia has not gone unnoticed. Associations have lost many members when they have not been able to invite to their regular activities. We therefore need to follow up and review the effects of the pandemic and the measures needed to secure a strong civil society in the future. The Center Party sees that civil society needs better conditions for its activities and its commitment to society. We think that we should investigate how the right to deduct donations to non-profit organisations can be broadened, something that may be even more urgent in these times of crisis in order to increase the opportunities for civil society to get through the pandemic, from which we are now catching up, and to be strong in the future. When an idea-based organisation wants to cooperate with the public and make public contributions, difficulties sometimes arise because there are no clear models to use. That is why we want the Center Party to develop models for such a partnership between ideas-based organisations and the public. We will make it easier for civil society actors where we can. All in all, this leads us in the Center Party to the fact that it is time for an association law investigation with the aim of clarifying and strengthening the specificity of civil society and creating reasonable regulatory frameworks for the activities. Just such a thing as opening a bank account is no longer easy for a small association, and if you somehow charge cash, it becomes even more difficult. Then you have to have good contact with some small trader nearby who can help you solve the problems. Another issue that should be investigated is whether we can introduce an opportunity for non-profit associations to level income over tax years, in a way that an author's account allows. This can make it easier for non-profit associations, which can have uneven incomes due to the fact that some years have higher income from, for example, special arrangements, some lottery or whatever it may be. This would provide greater security for associations, which could then be better able to continue their activities even in years of temporary lower incomes. Had this been in place before the pandemic took place, more associations and non-profit organisations would have done better than they do today. Madam President, I would like The work of civil society and community life plays a very important role in the positive development of society at large – not least in rural areas and small towns, where civil society through associations and communities takes a great responsibility for the development of the community. It is ranging from common water compounds and road associations to gas stations and, not least, the expansion of fibre. If more people get their eyes open to getting involved in society, we can continue to develop our society in a positive direction and counteract segregation in order to build bridges instead. Finally, Madam President, those who volunteer contribute to society must be well placed to do so. A free and strong civil society builds a strong democracy. Civil society is also a basis for strong civil defence and total defence, which we have become well aware of these days. And as we were reminded on our research morning last week: Democracy does not attack each other.
i-GSwZY4ynPcgqd71zjwStd1	Madam President, I would like We are debating civil society. I support the Christian Democrats' reservation number 1. On 24 February this year, Russia launched a large-scale invasion of Ukraine. We see how a people is on the run and how democracy is challenged by a people who have lived under the Russian threat for eight years. What we want now is for humanitarian aid to arrive, for international civil society to make life-changing efforts and for vital infrastructure to be protected from armed violence. Unfortunately, the reality is bleak at the moment. Ukrainian civil society has played an important role in social development and reform. There are a large number of independent human rights organisations, and until now Ukrainian civil society has been allowed to operate freely. There are elements of corruption, partly inherited from the roots of Communism, but civil society is an important cornerstone of the construction of society. Madam President, I would like Civil society communities also play an enormous role in our society. We know that 53 per cent of Swedes, that is, every other Swedish, perform some form of voluntary work on average 15 hours a month. During the pandemic, volunteering has meant and means the difference needed to create a warmer and more solidarity-based society. I usually say that volunteering makes life bearable for the rest of us. The voluntary efforts of those who do not demand anything back but simply give of themselves are admirable. And there are many of them! These people think I've found a secret, a key in life: It's clearly more blessed to give than to get. For us Christian Democrats, civil society is one of the foundations of society. It contributes with commitment, trust, democracy, a meaningful leisure time for children and young people and, not least, an extended hand for society's most vulnerable. Before I came to Parliament in 2010, I worked ten years in the Rescue Mission in Gothenburg, which is part of civil society there. It was a job with homeless people and people with psychiatric problems. It was a work that was based on the expression and meets at eye level and from not talking about the little man or using the expression a poor man without meeting with respect. I remember a woman coming from the street. She said everyone looked away when she came, and she felt like she was nothing. She said, "I'm nothing. Then she came into the rescue mission's volunteers, and she got an accommodation on a farm outside Gothenburg. She had to move into the friggebod. It was a little special, you might say. I visited her there, and it was between 35 and 40 degrees Fahrenheit. It was terribly hot, I thought, and said: How can you live in this heat? She replied: I love warmth! It was in the Rescue Mission that I saw the transformation that could occur in a wounded person's life when a volunteer came to the rescue and support. These volunteers are my heroes, as are the field workers. There was also a seed sown in me to engage politically. I thought that if it is possible to change people's situation as they do here, it must also be possible to change society for the better. It may seem naive, but I believed in that belief, and here I am, run from the values of civil society. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats are a political movement that acts strongly for civil society. And we want to provide good conditions for civil society to work. We want to see various proposals from the government examined so that they work for the civil society. This stems from an investigation called Palett for a strengthened civil society. We want to ensure that support for increased costs of care due to covid-19 also reaches idea-based care providers. We have also proposed an increased ceiling for the gift tax deduction, which was something that we were pleased to see in the common budget for 2022. We now propose to set up an investigation to look at how gifts to more types of organisations can be eligible for deductions. When giving for relief activities among the needy goes down, the public can contribute with an injection that can increase giving. When the alliance government, on the initiative of the Christian Democrats, introduced a tax reduction for donations to non-profit activities with a social orientation or that promote research, the total giving to the country's 90-account organisations increased from 5.2 billion to 5.8 billion, according to former FRII, the voluntary organizations' fundraising council. During the same period, the average monthly gift increased from SEK 131 per month to SEK 170 per month. The figures showed a clear trend in which more people chose to give money for charitable purposes. Compared to the gift tax deduction scheme that existed in 2012-2015, an improvement was made. The organisations applying to become gift recipients now no longer have to pay application or annual fees. It was previously an obstacle to applying to become an approved recipient of gifts, especially for many smaller organisations. Madam President, I would like Civil society is one of the foundations of society. Aid organisations, associations, churches, religious communities, sports clubs and social enterprises are important parts of our society that lay the foundation for democracy, humanity and a functioning society. Let me conclude with some well-known words by Stig Dagerman: Earth you can't do again. So add your cool soul! At least one thing you can do: another person well. But this is already so much that the stars themselves smile. A hungry person means less to a brother more.
i-WnwiNWg7npuSwQBk8Mn7jA	Madam President, I would like We celebrate 100 years of democracy in Sweden, and I would like to take the opportunity to use this opportunity, when we debate civil society policy, to pay tribute to the popular movements that pushed the breakthrough of democracy in Sweden. Celebrating democracy and the foundations of democracy is particularly important these days. The fact is, Madam President, that when we stand in this House debating civil society, it is easy to forget that our presence here, men and women of all ages with different backgrounds and experiences, is possible very much because of the very struggle that the popular movements carried on long before us. Several of the parliamentary parties, including my own, are directly run from the popular movements that were formed in the latter part of the 19th century. Before that, the idea had been that people would submit to a social order that divided society into four estates with clearly distinct tasks, privileges and rights. One who experienced injustice and rebellion was considered a criminal who challenged Gud and the king's power. But this came to change when people found the strength to organize themselves and together began to fight for the same goal. Sobriety movement, trade unions, free churches, women's movement, education unions – yes, here were the ideas and here was the conviction of a better and fairer society. During the first half of the 20th century, the popular movements had their heyday, and during the years 1918–1921 democracy had its great breakthrough. Now there were major social changes, and what was originally ideas of a more equal welfare society became real political decisions, and universal and equal suffrage was introduced. Madam President, I would like Today, 100 years later, the struggle for democracy is different. Today it is about protecting and developing what we already have. The role of peoples' movements and civil society is still crucial here. For civil society, both a democracy school and a voice carrier are. Whether it is the interest in politics, bird watching or science fiction that makes people choose to join associations and organizations, they are all involved and contribute to strengthening democracy. It kind of happens by itself when we come together, when our ideas and thoughts are tested against those of others and when we make joint decisions. Unfortunately, however, civil society, the core of democracy, can also be used for undemocratic purposes. In light of this, in 2018, the Government set up an investigation into the conditions of democracy, to ensure that public funds go to activities that are consistent with the fundamental values of society as formulated in the form of government and in the international conventions on human rights. Government contributions to civil society enable organisations and religious communities to operate and make important contributions to society. But tax money should not go to organisations that do not respect democracy. It is crucial to make it more difficult for those who want to make use of the system. That is why it is important that we now have a final report and, shortly, a proposal for a clear, legally secure and uniform democracy in support of religious communities and civil society. Madam President, I would like A strong civil society must be built every day. In order for Swedish civil society to continue to be strong and develop, good and long-term conditions are of great importance. The strength and power of civil society benefit our society every day, and its strength has greater added value when faced with difficult trials. We have not yet left the pandemic and the Corona crisis when we are facing a new crisis. As I stand here today and without obstacles, our democracy is celebrating a full-scale war in our vicinity. In Ukraine there is a war about democracy, about the right of a country and a people to self-determination. The struggle of Ukraine is our struggle, a struggle for democracy. Madam President, I would like We in Parliament do not build democracy. We uphold it by law, by securing our rule of law and by ensuring the functioning of our institutions. Democracy is built daily outside this building. It is built in, for example, our associations and organisations, on our sports fields, in our schools and in our educational associations. When we have been strongly reminded over the last few days that the fight for democracy must be taken every day, it is also a reminder of the importance of safeguarding the foundations of democracy. Strong military defence and strong institutions are crucial in times of crisis and perhaps war. But a strong civil society is crucial when we need to change, come together and seek new solutions. Today, we have also heard several examples of how civil society has already begun to change. We have a duty to protect all the bones of civil society, as a democracy school, as a voice carrier and as a place for people's commitment and interests. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, I would like to call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-GLLW2SmG9jBCHJef1nnkNv	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Rojhan Gustafsson, for your speech. I can note that in many ways we share the view that civil society is important and that we have a good interaction between civil society and the state. Maybe I'll react a little bit to the history description. It is not just one party that has helped to bring democracy to Sweden, but we are many parties that have done so in different ways. I would like to ask Azadeh Rojhan Gustafsson about the contributions to various parts of public education. We have a common view that peoples' education is important, but also that it should be democratic in different ways. We shall support democratic organisations. We Moderates have put forward that we want a proper audit of where the contributions go. I would like a clarification from the Social Democrats on the way in which it is thought that we should not give money in any way but that we really have a proper audit. Is it something that the Social Democrats can also support, that is to say that we are making sure that the money that the state is spending goes to the right things?
i-4j9c2R38aYHeXP82smhHwC	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ann-Britt Ann-Britt, for the question! If in any way it was understood that I believe that it is only my party that has contributed to democracy, I would like to make it clear that this is not the case. I said it was one of several peoples' movements that contributed to the democratic development of Sweden. I stated in my speech that no public money should go to activities that are not compatible with our values, with our democratic values. The purpose of the democracy conditions and the investigation that was set up in 2018 was to investigate just how we can guarantee that public funds are used properly and that they do not go to organisations or associations, whoever it is – it is also applied to the study associations and the general public education – which use them incorrectly. No funds shall be used incorrectly. If the activities carried out are not compatible with our democratic values and our human rights values, it should not receive money either. The investigation has now arrived, and there has been a final report. During the spring, we will also see a proposal to strengthen the conditions for democracy. I think it's very important and in its place.
i-AGH1C8hd9KvMj5UQhHwwGh	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Azadeh Rojhan Gustafsson, for the clarification! It is good to hear that we still have a safe base to stand on together in democracy with regard to these things. I'm still hanging on to this. During the year, we Moderates put forward a proposal in committee to try together to find out where the contributions are going. We were quite alone; so we did not get the support of the Social Democrats in having a proper and fair look-through to see that the contributions are really going in the right direction. It is a bit important for politics to take the lead in this, so that you do not just leave it to someone else to do it. We Moderates have also put forward proposals in committee to have an authority. We therefore want to share the Folkbildningsrådet, so that it is not at the same time both an authority and a non-profit organisation. I would like to hear some of the views of the Social Democrats on this. Can one unite to be both an authority and a nonprofit organization?
i-TuXHXSk5nX8CxuKacUDiyX	Madam President, I would like Sometimes we forget that the fact that we know that there have been irregularities and that it has actually been discovered is because the bodies responsible for it have done their job – they have discovered those very irregularities and alerted us to them. Sometimes it feels like we've forgotten that the system works. Otherwise, these problems would not be detected. This does not mean, however, that we also do not need to take further steps to ensure that it does not happen again and that funds are not used in the wrong way. That is where we have the conditions of democracy, which will make it clear to everyone how money is distributed, who can get money and on what grounds, when the money can be withdrawn and when it simply does not pay out at all. I have great confidence that the systems we have today work, but there is a need for clearer regulations. You need to understand better how to interpret when something is not right. I am therefore hopeful and pleased that we are now getting the conditions for democracy in place.
i-66L9JmQpqhNbhQu3zpXGkN	Madam President, I would like The Left Party does not have its own motions in this report, but I am in favour of the committee's proposal for a decision. I would like to use my time here today to talk about a proposal from the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats. It is a question of removing contributions to ethnic associations. This is another issue where the Moderates follow the Swedish Democrats in their heels and hope to receive the votes of a group that is unhappy that Sweden is a multicultural society. The motion argues that ethnic associations are bad for integration. What is the evidence for this? Do you seriously believe that it is participation in an association with people who share the same linguistic and cultural background that makes it difficult for people to enter society? This assumption means that you do not buy that it is possible to have a multicultural background and at the same time be a part of Swedish society, such as Swedish-Greek, Swedish-Chileen or Swedish-Somalians. For those who do not know the associations formed on an ethnic basis, I will give a brief background. Around 50 associations divide each year by just under 19 million. The grant has remained stable at this level since 2009 when the moderate-led government adopted the grant regulation. About half of the associations are based on groups from European countries. A little fewer are from Asia, some are from Africa and one has a background in South America. The MUCF Authority, which distributes the contribution, notes that many of the ethnic organisations have a combined role. They act as a voice for their members or as a producer of services that members demand, and some carry out advocacy work with ideas on how society can change and improve. Some organisations have as their main objective the promotion of integration and participation, while others have a stronger focus on cultural and social activities. In common, at least 51 per cent of the members must have a foreign background. All of this can be found on MUCF's website. The goal of integration policy, which the Moderates have endorsed, is for everyone to have equal rights, obligations and opportunities. How does it rhyme with being happy to contribute to associations that do jazz dance or street dance but do not want to give it to associations that teach Serbian or Kurdish folk dance? How is it that we are happy to contribute to some associations that have worked during the pandemic to break solitude but not to the Ukrainian Alliance, for example, which helped people isolated during the pandemic with support measures such as shopping? Why is it great that the Red Cross organises Swedish education but not Somali associations? The MUCF, which distributes the grant, of course controls the business. It should contribute to participation in society for the association's members, i.e. to support integration. It goes without saying that for those who are completely new in a country and neither can the codes nor the language nor know which standards apply, it can be very helpful to meet them with knowledge of one's background that in one's own language can guide the new arrivals into Swedish society. We see, for example, how the Church of Sweden abroad fulfils this function for Swedes who settle in another country. Whether you were religious or not, many people go there to get a way into the new country, make contacts and feel a sense of community. Many of the associations also offer outreach activities in their neighbourhood, such as cultural activities, sports and courses. It is therefore counterproductive to remove the contribution to ethnic organisations if we want to see greater integration. Jobs, access to languages, good health and good housing are instead the keys that you should focus on as well as on meetings with Swedes in everyday life so that you can learn from each other. If you want more people to learn Swedish well, you can make sure that we get a good SFI education. For example, you can work politically here in Parliament for a special teacher education focusing on adult education. You can get rid of the profit interest in SFI that makes companies lie about that they have trained staff to get contracts with the municipalities but rather hire unauthorized people who have lower wages. It can also be ensured that all children are entitled to more hours in preschool and Fritis. You can give native speakers better education and create good opportunities for native language education. For those who know their mother tongue learn their new language better. I think that we should settle with the market school, which has led to increased segregation for decades, and ban religious free schools. If the Moderates want to do something about housing segregation, they can, for example, urge their party colleagues who rule in several municipalities around Stockholm to build more cheap rental apartments so that people have more places where they can choose to settle. If you want more people to get into work, there are good proposals from the Left Party for improved asylum reception, a validation year and an establishment process that takes advantage of each person's previous experiences. One can also take a closer look at the discrimination that exists in the Swedish labour market. Perhaps you can even visit one of the ethnic associations and ask the members about their experiences when they have applied for a job. Of course, many people have had jobs for decades. When people like my father came in the late 70's, zero hours of sfi were required; you stepped right into the factory floor. Many in these associations have come here as labour immigrants. But you will also meet highly educated people who have applied for both 50 and 100 jobs without even getting an interview. You will meet people who have faced racism and discrimination and who, out of concern for their children, wanted to give them more Swedish-sounding names to increase their chances. Unfortunately, in this case, the Moderates have not based their proposal on research on integration, MUCF evaluations or even their own experience of associations' activities, but on what they believe goes home to public opinion. They wanted another proposal on their list of harder moves against immigrants. Madam President, I would like Perhaps a friend of order wonders why I'm just critical of the Moderates. Shouldn't the Swedish Democrats get a throw of the sleigh too? Well, the Swedish Democrats have for a long time declared that they are against integration, that is, that people with different backgrounds find ways to live together with their respective cultures. They would rather have assimilation and think that integration policy is completely wrong. Everyone should adopt SD's definition of Swedishness and learn it in Swedish centres. At least they are honest that they do not think we should have a multicultural society and therefore make proposals like this. So far, the Moderates are not there in their ideological shift. Madam President, I would like The Left Party strives for a society where your gender, where you were born and your parents' class background does not control your possibilities in life. The fact that the parties in the right-wing nationalist bloc point their finger at people living in certain areas reinforces a we-and-dom thinking. They increasingly want to divide people according to their ethnic background and do not see class differences as the basis for our different living conditions. Their proposals therefore focus on people's culture rather than on socio-economic conditions. This is another proposal in that category. For a long time, people of different backgrounds have been suspected, pointed to immigrants as a problem and contributed to increasingly open racism and discrimination. There we have one of the most serious threats to integration.
i-ToTJLTZ43wQJ1L1FEwmaie	Madam President, I would like The left is really taking in somewhere from the roots. What was it in this that caused us to get this very strange angle on the debate? After all, we are discussing civil society, Madam President, and the Left Party had no motion requests whatsoever in the report. Yet the debate is both high and low. I wonder how this really happened. Talking history to me is very good to do. It's my 75th birthday next week. For many periods I have had the opportunity to see people who have come to Sweden in different ways. I grew up in the 1950s when the Finns came. They came straight to work. I also grew up in the 1970s when the Yugoslavs came and got a job without any SFI. I think it would be good if we made sure that the labour market works. It's the best way for people to get into society. That's where you learn things, and that's where you get contacts. It also becomes a strange bubble you live in as a left-wing partyist when you say that the Moderates are not out in reality. That's where we learn. I live in a part of Sweden where I am out in reality every day. I visit ethnic associations, and I've heard exactly what they say. They want to be Swedes. Ethnic associations are in many cases associations that strengthen one's own to such an extent that one cannot or cannot get out of his bubble to become integrated. It would be interesting to hear what Vasiliki Tsouplaki bases his view that the Moderates are not in reality.
i-D8ymptyVSxcYgHHzbsopQt	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ann-Britt Ann-Britt, for your question, so that we get the chance to talk a little more about this! I've been looking at the motion that includes the motion. That is the description that I see when I read the exercise. It is a party movement that Ann-Britt Ann-Britt's party leader has signed. The whole exercise is based on increased demands, reduced rights and conditional citizenship. That's what I'm opposed to. Instead of making sure, for example, that the SFI works better and making demands on the trainers, the requirements are laid on the students. Instead of making people feel part of society, new arrivals are identified as another category of residents. It's the shift in human perception that makes me react very strongly. I, too, have been involved in politics for many years and have had many fruitful discussions with Moderates over the years. I am disappointed in this development. That's why I pull from my toes, as Ann-Britt Ann-Britt says. We must pay attention to the fact that something is happening here. How we express ourselves in the political debate also affects what happens outside this house – the respect people face in their everyday lives in their residential areas, what they read about in the newspaper and how they are perceived. Is it that people feel that they are forced to choose between their different cultures, that they are not encouraged to join a community but are identified as people with a problematic identity, I think they lock themselves in and close themselves to the new one if it is perceived as a threat to what they carry with them. Many who have come to Sweden as political refugees or from countries in war have struggled to speak their minority language and preserve their culture. Then I think it is quite the wrong way to go that we should not also encourage those positions and rights when they come here to Sweden.
i-ScW5SHVjzXN2FDXWZREvkW	Madam President, I would like I think it could simply be a generational issue. It's about how we look at things and how we can put things in a longer context. I think that sometimes you have some experience when you've been around longer and seen concretely how things have worked. I am not saying for that reason that we would not have very much exchange of each other, even though we are from different generations. I welcome the fact that we have. But we may also need to see and understand what it has looked like in a longer perspective. The reason I asked for a reply to Mrs Vasiliki's speech was that there were so many different things that came up in her speech. It just felt like it wasn't connected to these things. I understand now that the honourable Member has read our motion and that is the question here. This is not something we Moderates have not had before. We want to protect the individual and everyone. We want those who come here to really be able to get into integration and a community. It's very important. We believe that this is best done by learning Swedish, entering the Swedish labour market and being able to take responsibility for their lives. It is also part of the policy that we want. It is not always someone else who should arrange everything, but you have your own responsibility. It does not appear to be in Vasiliki Tsouplaki's speech. Here we need to find a more successful policy for it to work. That is the policy put forward by the Moderates.
i-NQoBgupR5NCQKK4VudJ38i	Madam President, I would like I certainly do not think this is a generational issue. It's about how well you're familiar with these organizations. That is why I felt that people should go out and talk to the organisations, get to know them and see what the activities are. If there's something they've done, it's that they've taken hold of a variety of things. It's about the trouble people see around them. They support each other in an integration process and in getting involved in society because they have common interests and share a certain background. It is just like we are giving money to separatist women's organisations in women's shelters. It is an organization based on common interests. This is largely about integration. That is why I say that you cannot point out the ethnic organisations as the culprit in this drama. It is a long-term political issue that is about how we should have it with integration and why people live segregated in Sweden. These organisations cannot be identified as the wrong link without taking political responsibility. As I mentioned in my speech, it is the Reinfeldt Government's regulatory framework and the integration policy objectives that the Moderates have set for a very long time that are the basis for the contribution and integration work. Here I mean that it seems that you no longer stand up for the premises that you yourself have been involved in deciding on. It's a shift in Moderate politics. If it is an ideological change in essence or if you want to reach a certain group of voters, I let it be unsaid. I am deeply disappointed by this development in society. I think we need to talk about immigrants and their organisations in a completely different way.
i-5r9qGJxoVU2aQZRbs3nBo7	Madam President, I would like The Left Party does not even want to contribute arms so that Ukrainians can defend themselves in the ongoing war. Perhaps you should not have such a high tone when it comes to talking about support for Ukrainian associations, I think. MUCF's own follow-up of government contributions to ethnic organisations shows no clear and concrete positive effects, except that the associations that receive the grant themselves seem to think it is positive. Instead, we can turn the question around. Since the Left Party is clearly in favour of having this contribution, can the Left Party point out something concrete that this contribution has provided? How many jobs has it given, for example? It would be interesting to hear about it. Feel free to answer that.
i-G4Jueez1pg7dFm6xCnmBbc	Madam President, I would like I must tell Jonas Andersson that this is not their task. We are talking here about civil society and that one should be able to organise oneself on the basis of free and voluntary and on the basis of common interests. Why should this not apply to these groups? Why do they need a specific job creation mission? It's great that you can gather around language teaching and preserving your cultural heritage. The Swedish Democrats tend to advocate that it is important for people with cultural identity and cultural heritage. But it would not apply to these groups that they can organise themselves on the basis of those premises. I know that the funds have historically come through the Ministry of Labour. It's an unfortunate connection. That's not what this is about. I'm sure there are things you need to think about. What is the regulation for the associations? We could discuss that. But what the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates are saying today is that we should only remove the contribution. It is not about improving or changing it or getting it on other premises. It is said that this type of organisation is not good for integration, and therefore they should not have any contribution. What other organisations do these requirements apply to? There was talk earlier here about a variety of outdoor organisations. Why don't they create jobs for immigrants? Why do sewing associations not contribute to integration? Why are these kinds of demands being made? The regulation states that associations should contribute to the participation of their members in society. There are very many organisations and many members. I can't account for what every organization does. On the whole, however, they contribute to the participation of members in society.
i-34wcM9cTfFpFgysk8qxtzq	Madam President, I would like It was kind of like I suspected. There was not so much concrete to point out, but there was quite a bit of flume. We can think like this. Since 2008, MUCF has been responsible for distributing the state grant. How does the Left Party feel about the development of parallel societies, segregation and so on since the introduction of the grant? Undeniably, it seems that the Left Party does not fully understand the seriousness. Instead of getting caught up in how to deal with the parallel societies that exist, it is hoped that the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates want to phase out a contribution that shows no concrete positive effects, for example when it comes to work. Earlier in my speech, I was aware that it was a recurring problem that the contribution has also gone to various types of extremism, such as the Azerbaijani Federation. The association has been withdrawn because of association with the Grey Wolves in Turkey. There have also been such problems if you look at what the grant has been for. What does the Left Party want to do to remedy that problem? When talking about democracy conditions, the Left Party is often silent. There are really no concrete proposals to ensure that subsidies do not go to such organisations.
i-Lseq9ftMD6VAnbKFhJWLb4	Madam President, I would like I think it is great that it is revealed whether there are associations that do not comply with the regulations, and in the example that Jonas Andersson has highlighted, the grant has been withdrawn. As described earlier in the line shift, it is proof that the system works when errors are detected and the money can be recovered. I would like to remind the honourable Member that in my speech I had a long list of other proposals that could work in a positive direction for integration. But I also pointed out that there must be a willingness to integrate into politics and not just a willingness to point out groups as problematic. You end up in the wrong place. If we do not see that socio-economic conditions affect people's lives, we will not, of course, put forward such political proposals. That is where the basic analysis is of why society looks like it is today. There, the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats do not share a single line in their programme declarations. We look differently at what the problems in society are due to, and we come up with various proposals. I don't think we're going to get much further in this line shift.
i-2t5L7JXN18M3QhqRnxyjwz	Madam President, I would like For both society and the individual, a strong civil society is of great importance. Civil society is in many respects the cohesive kitt of our society, which brings people together and which supports our country in many respects. Civil society is the basis of voluntary associations on which our society rests and which are not covered by the public. For us Moderates, society is always greater than the state, and for that a strong civil society is of the utmost importance. Civil society exists in every corner of our elongated country, but is perhaps both the most important and most present in rural areas where the public is rarely equally present. Sports associations give children and young people meaningful leisure time, do important work to make immigrants a part of Swedish society and are an arena for social gatherings for a great many people in our country. There are also countless other types of associations and organisations that make major and important contributions to civil society. It is, for example, charities that help the needy in various ways – it is evident not least now in all the non-profit forces that come together to help our brothers and sisters in the war Ukraine in different ways. Swedish civil society is indeed a rich flora of non-profit and important forces. Madam President, I would like Another major and important part of our civil society is the religions. Since the Christianization of Sweden, the church has been a very important, if not the most important, institution in our society, which for countless generations has contributed to literacy and education and provided health care, social care and not least a spiritual residence. Although the role of the Church of Sweden today is not the same as then, religion, all our religions, has a very important role in our time as well. Over 8 million people are members of a religious community, and there are more churchgoers than visitors to football matches as well as cinemas. Sometimes, however, it feels like the religions and their importance to most people in our country are forgotten. Freedom of religion is at the heart of a democratic country, and everyone has the right to believe what he wants and to practice his religion. All the religions that exist and operate in Sweden form an important community for a great many people – and also for society as a whole. In the 17th century Sweden got its first Jewish parishes. In the mid 1800s, when more communities than the Swedish Church had to operate, the free churches grew strongly. Since then, Sweden has gained a large number of active religions in various religions. In recent decades, the number of religions and communities has grown rapidly. The old state church, free churches, immigrant communities, Jewish congregations, mosques, and temples together constitute the multireligious landscape of many of us, each and every one with others, as spiritual abode. The religions are also more than just a spiritual abode. That's where many of us are baptised, and that's where we get married and finally also buried and get our last rest. Even if you are not a believer yourself, it is a place where we meet to celebrate life and meet in love but also in grief. For many people, the religions are just meeting places, a social context and a safety net. It is also the care of cultural heritage, concerts and language cafés for immigrants. We simply have much to thank our religions and all the congregations for. Madam President, I would like Now that the government has announced a bill with strengthened and harmonised democracy conditions for the whole of civil society, it strengthens our view that the grant payments should be brought together under one umbrella. Instead of the heredity of authorities that are currently in charge of monitoring and providing grants, these should be brought together under a civil society authority. Furthermore, we Moderates regret that the bill for new strengthened and harmonised democracy conditions has been delayed by several years when such a proposal should have been put before Parliament as a matter of urgency. Over the years, youth organisations and religious communities as well as peoples have had problems with violent extremism and other currents of ideas aimed at transforming our democratic society. As has been mentioned earlier in the debate, there are examples of ethnic associations that contribute to simple visas in society and segregation rather than integration. Unlike the Left Party, we Moderates do not think that taxpayers should be involved in financing such activities. Madam President, I would like Another concern of several of the eligible religions is that of foreign funding. These may be States as well as other actors who finance construction or otherwise finance activities. Not infrequently, this is accompanied by counterclaims so that the receiving assembly or the community of faith owes the paying operator due. For example, this can be demonstrated by the giving actor's influence over the appointment of religious leaders or invitations of lecturers. Therefore, the supervisory authority should also appoint an auditor to the organisation receiving foreign funding to ensure that the organisation meets the requirements of the state in the conditions of democracy and other conditions for grant payments and tax collection. The same demands should be made for those religions that have failed to comply with the conditions of democracy so that the state can monitor future compliance in a transparent manner. Otherwise, I would like to agree with Mrs Ann-Britt's speech and her motion.
i-SwZZCtk8Y8CZMLmXZD3ooK	Madam President, I would like My entering this debate right now is because civil society is important, as my moderate colleagues have said. In a free, democratic society, civil society has a role to play. But then there must also be trust, oversight, transparency and transparency. In many countries there is no civil society. What would be civil society is governed by the state. It's the state that stands for everything. Then it's not a civil society, but they call themselves a civil society. It shows the importance of a free, open and democratic society. But I would also like to say that there are independent civil society organisations that are being shut down in a dictatorship. Memorial is an example. It is difficult not to talk about Russia today. It is difficult not to talk about a country that is making a military invasion of the worst kind in one of our neighbours. I met an hour ago an organization called the Nordic Ukraine Forum. It consists of young students from Ukraine who are in Sweden and our neighbouring countries. They participate in this organisation on a voluntary basis. From being an intellectual group, this is now an organization that is practical. It is working to support Ukrainian refugees and at different levels to obtain more support for Ukraine. This shows how important civil society is. This is something that I am absolutely convinced that the majority of the parties in the Swedish Parliament are behind. I don't want to start discussing who's behind it and who's not. On the other hand, I fully support the need for supervision and support. Of course, because it is about trust among the members but also for an organisation. How will a voluntary organisation such as the Nordic Ukraine Forum be able to work and cooperate with authorities if there is no trust in the business, if citizens do not believe in it? I would also like to mention that they emphasised that they intend to work to collect information for the ICC, the International Criminal Court. They see it as an important issue to help speed up that process, because the management in the ICC can take many years. I was very happy to be able to tell them about another NGO who is working on exactly those issues and who has an auditor and transparency. That is what we must work for, as my moderate colleagues say.
i-NirGzkbuXK6vFysbbQcwRM	Madam President, I would like Not far from here are actors, artists and writers currently living a life of horror, and not far from here they are fighting to save cultural heritage from Putin's bombings. Both Ukraine and Russia live dangerously as cultural creators today. In Russia, artistic freedom – yes, all freedom – is an exception. You can't write or say what you want. Ukraine is plagued by the horrors that war always entails. Madam President, I would like I honestly find it a little difficult to think about anything other than the developments in Ukraine right now. But we have to do it, not least as a counter-action. When the raw violence shows its face, it is important to stand up for the freedom of culture, and when we face them, it is important to stand up for and protect the ability of literature, art and theatre to make us understand a little more of what it is to be human and what it is to be a different person from what you are. When words are distorted and truths are hidden, the libraries, archives and museums are needed most. Madam President, I would like The work is fun again. The quote is from a note by Ingmar Bergman that he made during his work with Fanny and Alexander. I saw it in a notebook when I recently visited the foundation responsible for protecting and caring for Bergman's archives. Due to the pandemic, fewer theatres are currently putting up Bergman's plays, thereby reducing the foundation's revenue. Incidentally, I think that we must help it to survive this difficult period. It will soon return to normal, but it is only one example of how the pandemic has affected and damaged Swedish cultural life. Over the last few years, we have repeatedly returned to the need to continue supporting culture. We will continue to do so for some time to come for those affected and for the necessary start-up. My assessment is that major efforts will be needed for a long time. When I visited Bergman's archives, there was another thing I was reminded of – that Bergman worked about the same every time. With the same kind of notebook and the same kind of paper, he sat down and prepared his work almost the same each time. He also showed the same brutal honesty toward himself and his life, his ailments and his life. Others work completely differently. Some are more spontaneous, and others plan in detail. For some it is easy, and for others it is a constant struggle. Some work alone, others in groups. For some, creation is a constant yet necessary pain while others enjoy every second. For some time I have had the opportunity to follow a skilled musician through the network program that the think tank Except, Young thoughts about music, has had. There have of course been many conversations about the pandemic, cancelled gigs and an economy that suddenly changed but also about creation and driving forces, the longing for the audience and sometimes the difficulty of getting everyday life together with the creative process. It is interesting to follow cultural creators. I believe that there are many of us in the committee and in Parliament who do so very carefully. I'm in touch with quite a few people. When you follow an individual in this way and how she travels through the cultural ecology or the ecological system of music and when you take the time to zoom out and zoom in and zoom out again you see how the culture makers and ecology are connected in a very interesting way. You get a completely different picture of what we as politicians should think about and what we can and should contribute. It can be to support the individual sometimes and to support structures sometimes. It can be strategic investments in infrastructure, and that could be facilitating for this particular individual right now. But seeing the system that exists in music and the whole culture as an ecological system is actually very interesting. It also gives you a different picture of the whole thing. Madam President, I would like The report is partly about that very thing. How do we strengthen the individual culture creator's conditions so that she has the time and energy to devote herself to her creation? Much of what is needed is actually something that is not on the table of the Committee on Culture. These are important issues such as a functioning and modern copyright. It is the adaptation of social insurance to the situation of cultural creators. It is a better functioning labour market. It is tax rules that make it easier for all those companies, foundations and individuals who in different ways want to contribute to a richer cultural life with more diversity. All this is crucial for culture and, of course, shows that cultural policy is something that more than cultural politicians have to do and work actively with. Madam President, I would like The unfavourable economic situation of the cultural sector is itself a risk factor in relation to the freedom of art and culture. This is a quote from the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis's latest report. It continues to warn that the uncertain economic and social situation of artists and creators of culture is a breeding ground for adaptability. My conclusion from this is that, in the future, an ambitious economic cultural policy is needed to counteract tendencies towards freedom, but also a wide range of reforms to safeguard artistic freedom in other ways and to maintain the demand for arm's length between politics and artistic practice. Madam President, I would like Liberals have several proposals in this area and we will come back with further proposals to strengthen cultural and artistic freedom. I believe that this is a central task for our time. We also have proposals for a review of music life in Sweden. Talent development, recruitment problems and the situation of wind music are some of the things I think you should look at in such an investigation. A review of music life can take place within the framework of a major cultural policy investigation, which I think we will need in the future. Of course, it can also be a completely independent review of music life. However, I think it is important to consider whether we do not need a thorough analysis of cultural policy in the future and a fresh start for cultural policy after what has been, not least because the pandemic has shown such great challenges. The economy of culture is an example, but we also have the great challenge of the effects of digitalisation, which we really need to consider in terms of the consequences of cultural policy. I am open to discussing other aspects of cultural policy in such a wide-ranging study, and I think it would be useful for the re-launch that we need. We need, on the one hand, a short-term restart, and, on the other hand, an idea of Swedish cultural policy in the really long term. I also believe that a collection of cultural policies is needed in the future. The needs are very great, and I think that is needed, a feeling in cultural life that there will be good and predictable conditions for quite a long time. In order to create that feeling, Madam President, it is important to have broad political agreements in the field of cultural policy. Therefore, I think that the government should invite to talks as soon as possible, which could lead to a broad anchoring of the cultural policy of the future. Madam President, I would like I shall conclude by calling for the approval of reservation number 10.
i-68aLRMEfSD4GCZtYuH57co	Madam President, I would like A few days ago I hesitated to stand here in the speaker's chair today. It feels shameful to debate our questions now that there is a war of aggression, an invasion war, in our neighbourhood, in Europe. But it is so important that we have free cultural creators, that we have a free press and that we can basically say what we think and think – this without a huge power in our vicinity putting a straitjacket and gag on us. That is why I regard this debate today as a tribute to Ukraine. We support their struggle for a free culture, free press and a free people. Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media. The committee proposes that the Riksdag reject all motions on the basis of ongoing work. It's good that it's working with the arts and the culture creators' conditions, but it's going far too slowly. Not least now during the pandemic, we have seen how vulnerable our cultural creators are. Far too many people have had to leave their work in culture in order to quickly acquire other livelihoods, usually in a completely different field, in other industries and occupations. Now we need to see a clear improvement, and let us learn from all the shortcomings, problems and weaknesses that have emerged during the pandemic. The report is broad and covers a large area. I will concentrate on two areas: the conditions of the creators of culture and artistic freedom. Other moderate speakers will take up other parts of the report. Madam President, I shall begin with the conditions of the creators of culture. Thankfully, we are now beginning to see the light in the tunnel again, after two years of pandemic and closure of the cultural sector. The pandemic has revealed many weaknesses and shortcomings in our country, in many different areas. One area is precisely the conditions of the creators of culture. We must now really ensure that the conditions of our cultural creators are improved in the context of the post-pandemic re-launch. To achieve this, we need to find additional ways to make it easier to be a creator of culture while at the same time broadening the opportunities for income and income for the cultural sector. What needs to be done, Madam President? Well, we need to reduce administration and unnecessary bureaucracy for cultural practitioners – yes, perhaps for all entrepreneurs. A majority of all cultural practitioners carry on their business and are therefore hit by large amounts of red tape. A review of the administrative structure of the cultural sector should be carried out. Today, at least 23 authorities are involved in the cultural sector. This is not sustainable! During my time in the Committee on Culture, I have been appalled by how many different authorities are involved in the governance and opinion of cultural practitioners. The government structure in the field of culture – yes, probably in a very large number of areas – needs to be vigorously reviewed, and the aim must be that a smaller part of the budget goes to administration and a larger part to our cultural practitioners. In many other countries there are interesting tax deduction models. We propose that an inquiry be set up as soon as possible to develop a model for tax deductions for gifts and sponsorship to the cultural sector, with the aim of safeguarding and enabling a variety of funding bodies in the field of culture. Madam President, I would like Many cultural creators are self-employed. They lay the foundation for cultural diversity, create jobs and growth across the country and are one of the cornerstones of modern cultural policy. At the same time, it is of course important that cultural workers, regardless of their form of employment, have good and secure conditions. The road to self-sufficiency is one of the most important issues; cultural workers must be able to live more on their creation. A large proportion of cultural creators in Sweden are highly educated academics, but they lack sufficient education in entrepreneurship. That is why we want a review of higher education in the professions of culture, with the aim of including entrepreneurship as a subject. Madam President, I would like I would like to move on to the subject of artistic freedom. How free is art? We have seen in recent years that the state and authorities in various ways want a word in the creation of art or at least want to set up a wish list with some criteria to be able to grant grants – this in parallel with all politicians talking about arm's length. Not least from our latest Ministers of Culture, we have heard this belief. We want to review the regulatory letters and the state mandate relating to the national cultural objectives in order to reduce the political governance of the content of art and culture. Madam President, I would like In June last year, the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis presented the report So free is art. It is a somewhat frightening reading about how the public in various ways governs culture and art in a way that should prompt powerful changes in cultural policy. A future bourgeois minister of culture will put this high on the list of priorities. As we can read in the report, art is free to interfere, among other things, with the government's contribution to artistic freedom in several problematic ways. Questions asked on application forms have guided artists to design their work in a certain way to appease, for example, the Swedish Arts Council or the Film Institute. The report also shows that almost half of the artists and cultural creators in a survey respond that they have at some point adapted their artistic content, without actually, according to them, having increased the artistic quality but only with the aim of increasing the opportunities to be awarded grants. Madam President, I would like To conclude, I would like to summarise what I have said and what we Moderates want. We believe that Sweden needs a general review of the conditions for artists and cultural creators. We believe that the state should basically keep a proper arm's length distance from culture and cultural practitioners. Culture should be free from political infinity. We believe that the role of cultural operators as entrepreneurs must be strengthened and clarified. We want to see a new and time-appropriate cultural policy for the 2020s. We believe that the structure of government in the fields of art and culture needs to be reduced. The aim must be that a small part of the budget goes to administration and a larger part to cultural practitioners. Madam President, I would like Of course, I support all moderate motions and reservations, but I only support reservation 1. I am pleased that the Center Party has also supported our reservation.
i-NiUYxvX2bmWLfXAXF2BHkd	Madam President, I would like In the time we live in, there is only one country away from us. For this reason, I will make my speech shorter than usual. We see cultural creators and cultural workers fleeing. We could hear yesterday about a ballet teacher who made it to Sweden. Her students are still in Ukraine, and they told her: If we die tomorrow, I want you to know that you were our best ballet teacher. I will not avoid a debate. I shall begin by calling for reservation 12 on libraries. This report deals with the arts and the conditions of the creators of culture. Last year, we debated the letter submitted by the government describing the structure of the industry, the measures presented during the pandemic and also the complexity of the sector with different forms of employment that do not always fit in with existing health insurance systems and a ‐ cash. Nothing has been presented by the government since then that has reached our table for treatment. A study on cultural and creative industries has been set up. It is a step in the right direction, but that investigation should have been set up years ago. During the pandemic, the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis presented a report, So free is the art. It is a report on the principle of arm's length. In that report we were able to take note of massive criticism of how the culture has been governed by the government and the current regulatory framework. In the light of, inter alia, that report, some authorities amended their application forms for applicants for grants to their projects. It is once again a step in the right direction, but it is sad that it has taken so many years to change. We have put forward proposals for a major study on cultural policy, but also specifically on the working conditions of freelancers. Madam President, I would like I will devote the remainder of this speech to our motion on libraries – the reservation on this I have asked for. Since the last parliamentary term, we have received information from library staff that there is trouble and trouble in libraries. Youth gangs are disturbing and loud. It does not respect the heart of libraries – it is about the libraries being calm oasis where you show reverence for their function. Today, if you believe it or not, security officers meet in several libraries, which we have been able to read about in both national and local news. Respect for our institutions has been lost, and it is only to be regretted. With our policy, it would never have gone that far. We want to restore respect. Libraries are, in our view, part of our welfare system, because they are funded from public funds. Everyone is welcome there, as long as you show respect. It shouldn't be any harder than that. Libraries are not holiday homes, and they are not cultural houses. Our libraries are a place where we take in new knowledge and advance in the stories of the words. Madam President, I would like This is written in our motion discussed by the committee: anyone who generally sabotages the role of libraries as a silent oasis for studies, or who commits crimes in the library environment, has exhausted his right to stay at the library. They should be able to be subject to access bans. In parallel with our treatment, we have pushed through an announcement in the Riksdag that is now being discussed in the Committee on Justice on access to libraries. We hope that all parties will support the proposal, not just because it is a fundamental SD proposal, but because it is requested by libraries in the country. Although this proposal does not concern our area of responsibility, it will produce results. This is the case with legislation. Some things we decide in the Committee on Culture, and sometimes the Committee on Justice deals with issues that are close to us. With this conclusion, I hope that Parliament will give its approval to the bill so that the working environment and study books at libraries will improve this summer.
i-RCkQRVWatMJzrxtaVj4QGr	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1. The conditions of the creators of culture have been exposed under the coronapandemia that we hopefully will soon be through. Unfortunately, we now have new dark clouds in the sky through the terrible abuse Russia is committing in a free and democratic country in our vicinity. In addition to human suffering, this will most likely affect culture in various ways – from free expression and art practice to bombed cultural buildings. Many cultural workers have been severely affected by the coronapndemine. It sets the light on how the effects of the precarious economic conditions in parts of the cultural industry have become during the pandemic. There are ways of improving the conditions for cultural workers, and it is important that we do so. Access to public spaces throughout the country provides the opportunity for cultural creators in theatre, music and literature to get assignments and to reach new groups. Creative school also gives assignments to cultural workers all over the country. Many cultural workers are entrepreneurs. Sometimes they are involuntary, only to be able to send invoices and receive payments. We want to improve their access to security systems. There may also be a need for specific information measures for the involuntary, if I may call them so, entrepreneurs so that they can develop their business and do what is needed. We believe that the alliances – The Theatre Alliance, the Music Alliance and the Dance Alliance – are a form that should be developed. All these elements are important to work on in order to create greater security for cultural workers in the event of crises, which has become very clear in recent times. We also want to investigate the possibility of introducing a right of deduction for first-hand purchases of art for companies. It would be a way of creating a larger market for new art without government control. Culture will be freer if it stands on more legs. Public funding is needed in many cases – it may often not even be replaced. At the same time, however, opportunities for private funding should be improved. This concerns issues such as facilitating cultural sponsorship, lowering dance tape VAT and introducing the right to deduct art purchases, as I said. It is also about other forms of measures that promote private financing. Production incentives for film recordings are important and good. Measures such as these can also help to strengthen cultural and creative industries and free cultural life, which have suffered to a large extent during the pandemic, as I have said before, Madam President. In order to secure artistic freedom, art needs to be protected from direct influence when paid for by the public, what is commonly called the principle of arm's length. I think we need to discuss this all the time. We need to have this debate at local, regional and national level. In these contexts, models are also needed for how public and private can interact. We would like to see sponsorship where artistic freedom is protected at the same time. However, there is a need for fairer conditions for free culture and cultural and creative industries. It concerns everything from regulatory simplification to the review of tax rates. The stage alliances are the collective name for three modern security networks for freelancers in the performing arts area in Sweden, namely the Theatre Alliance, the Dance Alliance and the Musik Alliance. In 2012, an evaluation was carried out that showed that the performing arts alliances improved the security of the stage artists employed but also that there is room for development. Together with the Moderates, we believe that it is time for a new evaluation to be carried out. Madam President, I would like In the short time that I have been in the Committee on Culture, it is quite clear to me that we need to improve and strengthen the conditions and security of cultural creators. We do this best through a close dialogue between the various political parties and together with the creators of culture.
i-QExyshrXLZtRrPW3Kh2hHi	Madam President, I would like The title, the arts and the culture creators' conditions, can contain many different themes and suggestions. For the Left Party, it is important that we create good conditions for the country's cultural creators. Among other things, we need to adapt the social security system and the unemployment fund to the particular situation of many artists. We need to strengthen the performing alliances and the centres and provide support for studios and collective workshops around the country. We also want to see increased job security in public cultural institutions. I hope that the funds that have now been set aside for the re-launch of culture can begin to operate throughout the ecosystem of the cultural sector. Madam President, I would like In this report, the Left Party has several important proposals, such as improving the quality of Braille literature and reviewing support for literature. However, I choose to highlight our proposals relating to Sami culture and to call for the approval of reservation 16. The long-standing discrimination against Sami is a disgrace in Sweden's history. Unfortunately, knowledge of how the state has acted through the centuries is still not very widespread. I do not have the opportunity here today to explain the full extent of that oppression, but it will be a brief overview. From the last decades of the 19th century, racial biology influenced Swedish Sami politics. Politicians and researchers claimed and sought evidence that the Sami were born with certain racial characteristics that made them inferior to the rest of the population. Public research grants were used to measure and compare the shape of skulls in the Swedish majority population, Sami and Swedish finns. The measurement was made both on living people and by digging up graves. Long skulls were considered higher standing than short skulls, where Sami were counted. 1,300 living Sami were examined and photographed, adults and children, with and without clothing. Recently it was noted that it is 100 years since the publicly funded Rasbiological Institute was founded in Uppsala, the first in the world. The department had the politicians' mission to maintain high quality of the Swedish population, which meant that race mixture should be avoided. Although the Sami were not directly identified as a group that would be subjected to forced sterilisation, it is nevertheless clear that many Sami were subjected to these abuses carried out from the mid-30s to the mid-50s. One sign that our institutions and laws still do not grasp the scope of the abuse is that all of these around 12 000 photographs of different minorities that I mentioned are considered public documents and can be seen at Uppsala University for those who request them. SVT reported on this as late as February, and the Sameting has now said that it wants to take over responsibility for these images. Madam President, I would like Samers's rights have been strengthened in recent decades, but the abuses and discrimination that the Swedish state has subjected Sami to, and which are still ongoing on many levels, are unknown to many decision-makers and to the public. International bodies such as the UN and the Council of Europe point out recurring shortcomings in how Sweden respects Sami rights as indigenous peoples and how discrimination affects Sami peoples' situation. The Left Party has previously made proposals in the Committee on Culture for a Truth Commission on the State's actions. We have also raised the issue of the repatriation of Sami objects and remains. Madam President, I would like In today's report there are two other proposals that we support. One is a Sami language law, and the other is the establishment of a Sami national scene. The situation of the Sami languages in Sweden is very serious. Despite efforts to revitalise in recent decades, the five Sami languages North Sami, Lule Sami, Pitesame, Umesame and South Sami are still classified as threatened languages by UNESCO, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Language Organisation. Centuries of assimilation policy have meant that many Sami have never been taught their own language or have only been inadequately taught. The Association is responsible for leading the Sami language work, which spans a large geographical area, not infrequently with cross-border cooperation within Sápmi, while the personnel and financial resources of the Sami Parliament are very limited. Furthermore, I can mention that the Sami library, which is supposed to be a resource for the whole country, has only one mid-term position today. Madam President, I would like Since the Sami languages have been and are still under great pressure and under great threat for a long time, the need for different types of language support, strengthening, advisory and information-raising efforts is enormous both among the Sami community and in society at large. The Left Party therefore proposed in its budget exercise last autumn an investment of SEK 30 million for 2022 in order to give Sametinget more resources to work on language issues. We think that this initiative could also be used to strengthen the Sami library. The Act on National Minorities and Minority Languages contains provisions on administrative areas and regulates, inter alia, the right to use minority languages in administrative authorities and courts. The Sami also have a special position as indigenous peoples, and we think that this should be reflected in the legislation regarding the Sami languages. In order to make the Sami language work more visible and strengthen Sametingen's responsibility for the Sami language work as part of increased self-determination for the Sami people, we think that a special Sami language law is needed to strengthen the Sami people's linguistic rights based on Sweden's international legal obligations. Madam President, I would like Finally, I think it is time for us to move forward in the process of establishing a Sami national scene. Development work was done in 2017 – 2020 to investigate how Giron Sámi Teáhter could become a national scene. I understand that this work is stuck somewhere during the pandemic, but now it is really time to dust off the investigation and make sure that it becomes a workshop. This autumn's committee received information directly from the theatre that they are ready to get started. That is why I was very surprised that there were no more parties behind this today, but I hope that we can agree on it in the future.
i-Dae4pVBS8KYk8VJYCmrPmm	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 3 by the Christian Democrats. It is said that the fabric on the wall behind me consists of 200 varieties of grey. Now that I listen to the debate, almost everything is about different variations on the same theme, that is, freedom of art, except what we have just heard about the situation of the Sami people. My speech is about freedom in art. Art is an added value in life. This is also why it is important that artists and cultural creators who create works of art, pieces of music, dance works and books that we all enjoy are given decent living conditions and opportunities to practice their art without having to stand on the brink of ruin economically. Even before the pandemic, many artists had difficulty living. The years 2020 and 2021 with the pandemic have brought great difficulties for artists and cultural creators when many events were cancelled, many art and concert halls were closed and public gatherings were tightly regulated. In addition, forms of aid and conditions of insurance are not adapted to the specific working conditions and life situation of artists. In order for artists and cultural creators to achieve cultural freedom and diversity in Sweden, these shortcomings in the system need to be addressed and adjusted. It is beautiful to talk about artistic freedom – that a culturer enjoys the freedom to use his time to create what he or she wants and how. But I have to say that this freedom for the vast majority is a struggle for economic survival – simply to cope with everyday life. Political awareness is needed to make decisions that increase the conditions for cultural creators to experience security, especially as the labour market of artists differs from the labour market for the vast majority of other professions. If permanent work is the norm in the labour market at large, jobs in the cultural sector are usually temporary and unemployment is high. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats believe that it is important that cultural policy contributes to good basic conditions for the cultural sector, but that it is also important to maintain respect for artistic freedom and the principle of arm's length distance to culture. The Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis presented last June the report So free is the art, as we have heard from several speakers. It is precisely about the influence of political governance on artistic freedom. In particular, the focus would be on the application of the arm's length principle within operational control. I have mentioned this before, but I think it is so extremely important that I want to mention it again. In the report "How free art is" it is stated that parts of the state grant are governed and implemented with negative impact on artistic freedom, that the principle of arm's length is not possible to apply fully at regional and municipal level, and that at different levels, mainly regional, there is goal management that risks adversely affecting artistic freedom. The report states: Cultural analysis estimates that there is governance that cannot be justified on the basis of the objective of independence, but also on the basis of the cultural policy objectives as a whole. There is also a survey on the impact of governance on art and culture among artists and cultural creators who have applied for grants and support from the Arts Council, the Arts Board and the Film Institute. A total of 33 per cent of the artists and cultural creators surveyed replied that they have at some point refrained from applying for grants because of assessment criteria that they have experienced are in conflict with artistic freedom. We hear for ourselves that this is not artistic freedom, it is control. Let us then safeguard artistic freedom, even if there is a financial contribution to facilitate artistic creation. Within the Christian Democrats we believe in the possibility of private sponsorship and corporate sponsorship. It simply makes it beneficial for entrepreneurs to contribute. At the same time, maintaining arm's length is a challenge, so that the impact is sound and not incorrect. I note that it is a foundation for an artistic practitioner to experience artistic freedom without anyone looking behind his shoulder or listening secretly to influence what is created. I think it is so strong that cultural creators can create exactly what they want in freedom without anyone making charges. It is about so much democracy and so much good for the soul that can influence other people in a good direction. Madam President, I would like Now it's important to get people back into cultural life again – artists, stage workers, logistics and all possible people who have left what they liked so much. And not least, it's a matter of getting the audience back. We've seen a slowness. But hopefully it will release when it becomes natural to gather again. The longing is great, and the needs are many. This is to be dealt with, and it is a great responsibility to be a cultural politician in these revolutionary times. Finally, we need to instill hope in each other and start believing in a renaissance for the arts and the conditions for the creators of culture. As politicians, we have the opportunity to influence the situation and the situation, and we will try to do so in the best possible way. I would like to add that I also support the proposal by the chairman of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, Christer Nylander, to invite the government to hold talks on future cultural policy. I would like to take part in these talks for the good of all of us.
i-QSSyiB9Wvp4cwKDdx41xb7	Madam President, I would like Culture is one of the most important things we have. Being free to create and participate in art, culture, literature, film and much more makes our lives richer. We want to see a society where people and cultural expressions meet, where people are free to think and think according to their own head – where thoughts, visions and differences are respected and provide a breeding ground for creative thoughts, new ideas and initiatives. At this very moment, I cannot help but think that the freedom that we enjoy in our country is something that the Ukrainian people are risking their lives to defend. Authors are forced to trade the pen for rifles, architects build roadblocks instead of drawing houses and journalists work hard to depict what is happening to the outside world. In this dark time, we stand united in our solidarity with Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. I would like to thank our Minister for Culture, who has said that the main focus of the Ministry of Culture is to support culture and the media in Ukraine. Among other things, our authorities have a dialogue with the National Museum in Kiev to protect the cultural heritage and its collections. According to data, there are currently no collaborations between our state cultural institutions and official Russia. Let us return to the question of the conditions of the creators of culture in our country. Culture is nothing without those who create and convey art and culture. It is in the free cultural sector that artistic innovations arise that stretch the boundaries, develop art and create new forms of expression. In the long run, this contributes to research, innovation and education. The artistic development depends on professional artists and cultural creators having the opportunity to work under reasonable conditions throughout the country. It is, of course, for the sake of the operators themselves, but also for people to dare to seek the profession, so that we have a broad, vibrant and multifaceted cultural life throughout the country. For us environmental partners, it is important that public support and compensation systems are designed to contribute to this. The vast majority of professionals are either freelancers or combinators. Cultural life must function more as a secure labour market. I am pleased that the government set up an investigation to review the issue of adapting health insurance for freelancers. This has been an important issue for me and for the Green Party. It must be made easier for freelance cultural creators to receive sickness benefit where all income is included in SGI. Freelancers should also have the opportunity to become parents or sick leave. It is also important to strengthen support for cultural creators with their own firm. I hope that the investigation into unemployment insurance is now being prepared. Entrepreneurs who need to rest their firms should be able to take maintenance and marketing measures and take on individual assignments without losing their right to compensation. The Swedish Social Insurance Agency and the Swedish Tax Agency will be strengthened with special expertise on artists' conditions. Madam President, I would like We have clearly seen that the stage alliances during the pandemic have become increasingly important. They have been able to work to increase the social and economic security of freelance stage artists, relieve unemployment funds, develop matching and mediation, and stimulate artistic development. There are great gains to be made by further strengthening support for the alliances. The crisis of culture is not over. It will take several years for the labour market to recover from the pandemic. It is therefore reasonable that new funds have been invested in this year's budget to strengthen the conditions for artists as part of the re-launch of culture and that EUR 745 million has been earmarked for the promotion of culture in order to strengthen the internationalisation of cultural life and to strengthen state support for national minority languages and the culture of national minorities. For me and for the Green Party, the rights of the indigenous peoples of the Sami and other national minorities are a matter of concern. We have pushed for a consultation order, a truth commission and major language initiatives, which have now become a reality. The Sami language and the Sami culture have disappeared in many places in Sápmi in whole or in part. Sami children are hard hit by the fact that society is unable to meet the needs of preschool and education in and in Sami. Language centres for more Sami languages are needed. Further measures to revitalise and strengthen Sami languages in Sweden may be to indicate minority languages as a subject in the School Act and introduce new provisions on teaching in national minority languages for all the compulsory school forms as well as for upper secondary and upper secondary schools. It is important that minority languages are guaranteed more teaching time within the framework of the school day. Sweden should also extend bilingual education for Sami. However, the field of education alone cannot guarantee the survival of languages. Sami cultural institutions need a more secure economic basis and greater autonomy. More people need to contribute to the use of languages, and the public must provide relevant and accurate information on the linguistic rights of national minorities. We want to promote more Sami museums and cultural institutions by strengthening support for the Sameting. Finally, I would like to mention that a few weeks ago, the Parliament decided to increase crisis support for culture, sport and the event sector with broad political support. It is gratifying to see that more parties have realised that the relaunch and recovery will take time. Now we need political perseverance. The Green Party will continue to follow the government's work on the re-launch of culture and push for, among other things, better economic and social conditions for cultural creators. We need to remedy shortcomings in the structures on which art and culture depend in order to operate freely. I support the Green Party's reservations 4 and 17.
i-PfJWZFpKtrTjGhM9zHAyRJ	Madam President, I would like All thoughts are today with the people of Ukraine, but our work on democratic processes must continue. Madam President and everyone else who follows this debate! Do you know who Stefan Ferger is? He owns the Soundmaker in Säffle, which today provides complete solutions with total responsibility for sound, light and image for concerts, extensive tours and more. I had the opportunity to follow Stefan one day and see his work and also be able to contribute myself. We were in Borgvik outside Grums, where Sven-Ingvar-Ingvars would set up a concert. Did that sound good to you? It's another story. Do you know Liselotte Asbjörn's Asbjörnsdotter? She's the library manager at Grum's library. She gave me an insight into everyday life at a library. Getting a book in your hand is a special experience. For many, this is the best company; it was seen not least during the pandemic but also now during the great book sale. At the library, I learned all about book lending and much more. The highlight was still when Liselotte had reading aloud to the children and you could see their eyes tint. Have you heard of Ann-Ann-Sofie Pettersson? She is the chairman of Värmland's first and Sweden's largest homestead farm, Ransäter's homestead. Fredrik August Dahlgren's folklore game has been performed there since the premiere in 1954. In bright sun or pouring rain, this has been done for nearly 70 years in midsummer at an amphitheater that started to be built with the help of voluntary labor in 1953. I don't think you know who Vanja Persson is either. She runs Munkfors Association and Conference Centre. We met last Monday, when I visited and took part in their broad activities, such as discos and sports activities. Munkfors without Vanja would be like Tärnaby without Stenmark or Red Room without Strindberg. These are some of our unknown cultural workers who make concerts flourish, the theatre to enrich, books to spread or our young people to be caught up in good activities. Without these cultural carriers at least Värmland would stand still. And then I haven't even mentioned Ekshärad. Let me get back to you! Madam President, I would like I call for all reservations to be rejected and for the proposal to be approved in the committee's report. I could briefly refer to a sign that I usually put up outside the door at home when I want to be in peace: Work is in progress. There is a lot of work going on in strengthening artists' conditions, and the motions and reservations we are discussing today clearly show that more work is needed in this important area. Madam President, I would like I think we can all agree in this Chamber that culture should be a dynamic, challenging and unbounded force based on freedom of expression. That everyone should have the opportunity to participate in cultural life is a matter of course. That creativity, diversity and artistic quality should shape the development of our society, I think we are also very much in agreement in this House. This year, the National Council for Culture has also been commissioned by the Government to promote the development and accessibility of culture on the basis of national cultural policy objectives by distributing and monitoring state subsidies. This year's letter of regulation states in particular that the Council should protect artistic freedom and provide information on artists' conditions. I would particularly like to highlight the Arts Board's mission: to promote artists' opportunities to develop their artistry and to promote artistic development. I would also like to remind you that the Artists' Board has the task of awarding state scholarships, grants and grants to promote artists' opportunities to develop their artistry and to promote innovative culture through grants. Then does the board? It is sometimes not easy for us as laymen to know if the authority lives up to its mission, but I feel confident that its work follows Parliament's intentions. Madam President, I would like As previously active – and with my trade union experience and background – I can see that working conditions for cultural workers need to be improved. Culture affects us all and is a part of our everyday lives. A society must be able to afford to support cultural workers. Culture must cost. It enriches us. A society must provide cultural workers with good basic conditions, opportunities and conditions. Without cultural creators we have no culture, and without artists we have no art. I am therefore pleased, as many have said, that the Committee on Culture and its members are well aware of the need for improvement. I hope this will last. In addition to an increased financial framework for activities, I should like to mention the MU agreement, which aims to create better conditions for visual and design artists to be paid for work. The Government has announced that the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis will be tasked with monitoring compliance with the agreement and analysing whether an industry practice has been developed in this area, which will also benefit many cultural workers. I would also like to mention the Theatre Alliance, the Dance Alliance and the Music Alliance, which were established earlier. These alliances have brought economic improvements to freelance practitioners in their respective fields and constitute a good method for artists in these areas, as has already been noted. In this year's regulation letter for the National Council for Culture, we have added 30 million more to our alliances this year than last year. This means that more cultural workers can gain more security, which both the government and we Social Democrats are working for. Frankly, Madam President, I think everyone in this House agrees. Madam President, I would like I have spoken in previous debates about the possibility of James Bond steering his MG off the Tosseberg plain at home in Fryksdalen. This may now be possible, when we agree that funds should be set aside and that our beautiful country and Värmland should of course be more visible in future film productions. The film industry is a central part of the cultural and creative industries in Sweden and creates positive effects on both regional development and Swedish competitiveness. Madam President, I would like According to statistics from Arbetsförmedlingen, one in four cultural creators have left the industry during this time. The emergence of the Corona virus has meant that many people in cultural life simply cannot feed. A concert cannot be performed without, for example, a sound technician. Therefore, it is positive that the investigation Artist – regardless of conditions? Now we're getting ready. It addresses issues relating to the design of the social security systems of entrepreneurs, where cultural creators are largely self-employed and are particularly concerned by these issues. Madam President, I would like Spring will soon be here. We wish everyone this year to enjoy a physical Valborg, May Day and not least the music. In the near future, however, it may be difficult to enjoy wind music. It is therefore particularly gratifying that the Swedish Arts Council has been commissioned to work instead to stimulate the regrowth of wind musicians and to strengthen wind music as an art. Finally, I would like to return to my dear Ekshärad, as I promised in my introduction. I am not the only one who highlights Eksär, my home country. World photographer Pieter ten Hoopen has also found my small corner of Värmland and Sweden. The pictures at Värmland Museum speak for themselves. Welcome!
i-AND7XbXh2njFWfkhCFtrfW	Madam President, I would like I would like to repeat what was said by the previous speaker, Lars Mejern Larsson: From looking up your eyes in the morning to closing them for the evening are the thoughts of our brothers and sisters who are fighting for their existence and for their lives in Ukraine. But not for nothing must the work of this House continue. The work for the democracy for which they are fighting must continue in the great and the small. One of the most important arenas for democracy is the culture with all its components. The report that the Committee on Culture has to debate now, the Arts and the Conditions of Culture, can be called a smorgasbord of good proposals. We are both united and divided, but on the whole I believe that we share the fundamental view of the importance of all these elements for our society. Madam President, I would like As I have said, the report is entitled The Arts and the Conditions for Cultural Creators. An art in itself I think was exactly what was presented here by Lars Mejern Larsson at his amazingly beautiful singing Värmland. Languages and dialects – it is so vital that we preserve them. It really honors Lars Mejern Larsson that he gives his entire speech in this fine dialect. Languages and dialects are so strongly associated with the district we come from, with traditions, stories and phenomena, and are so incredibly important to preserve. Madam President, I would like I will concentrate on the part of the report dealing with Sami languages and a Sami national scene. It is important to preserve languages, with all the variations and special expressions that they have linked to their background, and to transfer them between generations. I have mentioned here before, Madam President, that I myself, like Mr Vasiliki, have a background with a migrant father. My father came from Hungary. I have unfortunately lost the understanding of many words and expressions over the years from having spoken fluent Hungarian. This means that I have lost a large part of my soul and a large part of a culture, which pains me because it is a part of me. That is why I very much understand that we must safeguard both our own ability to transfer languages and what is protected by law, that is to say, our minorities. Madam President, I would like The Moderates have been exercising for several years that more than the two Sami language centres currently in Östersund and Tärnaby are needed. As mentioned earlier, there are five variations: North Sami, South Sami, Lule Sami, Umesama and Pitesama. There is also a Nordic cooperation throughout Sápmi, which includes Norway and Finland. I was a member of the latest inquiry into minority issues, and here we really ensured and underlined the importance of languages. It is therefore gratifying that the government has finally heeded and understood the importance of this and commissioned the Sameting to expand the number of language centres, which I think is very important for all five variants. Madam President, I would like I'll also say a few words about a Sami national scene. No one who's seen Same blood can be unmoved. The same applies to those who have read the Ædnan, which now comes out as a film. There is a great need for forgiveness between non-sames and Sami. But there are more perspectives, and therefore recognition and the establishment of a Sami national scene is so important. It is about highlighting not only the wrongs but also the amazing wealth of Sami singing and dancing and the legends and stories connected to the ground, nature and animals. It is enriching and magical traditions in our country that we need to spread more knowledge about. Madam President, I would like Today there are the National Theatre and Royal Dramatic Theatre, which among other things has the task of reaching out to the country with their various performances. It should also be possible for a Sami national scene to do so in view of the rich Sami tradition. I am pleased that the Left Party has joined our motion, and I hope that we can get our thumbs out on Rosenbad so that when we stand here next time we can make decisions.
i-JszM9VkMyuvh9UvDK4ew7z	Madam President, I would like Swedish film has had a tough time both before and during the pandemic, although now after the pandemic light sparkles are visible. Despite Parliament's announcement from 2016, the government has not appointed a broad film investigation since the Red-Green Government in a DN debate with then Minister of Culture Alice Bah Kuhnke nationalised film policy. In Statskontoret's analysis From film agreements to government film policy from 2019, it emerges that the role of industry councils needs to be clarified and that there may be reason to use a different assessment system and to develop film statistics. The councils are a collaboration forum for the film industry and related actors, and the assessment systems form the basis for the productions to be supported by the Film Institute. However, the statistics currently collected are not sufficient and appropriate because the Film Institute is not entitled to collect comprehensive data. Among other things, this needs to be investigated. Earlier in the debate there has been talk of production incentives for film, and it is welcome that such a proposal is now being put on the table of Parliament because we have been waiting six years since Parliament's announcement. It is a major competitive disadvantage for Swedish films that most countries in our geographical vicinity have these incentives, which draw capital and competence out of Sweden. But now, at last, the government has proposed the introduction of production incentives. The budget bill for this year allocates SEK 100 million, but no form or model for the incentives is presented. We Moderates have proposed in the report that we would rather see a tax reduction model. Of course, it would be nice to get a Bond production to Sweden, which Lars Mejern Larsson was into, but he should probably consider Moderates' film politics instead. The seven seconds that the Bond film takes place in Norway cost NOK 47 million, which corresponds to half the Swedish production incentive budget. We Moderates have also proposed twice as much money for production incentives. My colleague Magnus described the freedom of art with merit, and this also carries on film. The film institute's objectives and governance have affected Swedish film policy and also the content of Swedish film productions. As my colleague said, it is frightening to hear that many filmmakers and directors feel compelled to influence the content of their films in order to access the funds. A while ago, the Minister of Culture of Svenska Dagbladet was interviewed, and she was similar to cultural politics to a painting. Politics should set the framework, but what's on the screen should politics not get into. I fully agree with that. The only problem is that when you set these frames they can get quite tight, and then there is not so much room on the screen. I would rather use Peter Wolodarski words in Dagens Nyheter that culture should not be a harsh bonsai but a wild-growing garden. I think we can all gather around this. Let us safeguard the freedom of culture and really keep the arm's length away from culture and not least the artistic content. Finally, let me mention something that is crucial in order to have a strong bioculture in Sweden, namely the bio-VAT. We Moderates were very critical of the increase in bioVAT from 6 to 25 percent. We therefore have a proposal in the report to harmonise cultural VAT to 6%. Otherwise, I agree with my colleagues' previous speeches and with Magnus Stuart's motion.
i-ULRTB7TtdczinLzHRiovFB	Madam President, I would like This debate is about a matter on which the European Union decides, and I would like to stress today how important the European Union is for peace and our cohesion against Putin. We must stand up for Europe. In recent years we have seen an EU resistance grow in Sweden. Above all, it has been a nationalism linked to forest policy. Climate policy is one of the EU's important tasks. When the climate negotiations took place in Glasgow, Sweden was represented by the EU. Sweden is behind the fundamental climate policy in the EU, and one of the priorities is to stop deforestation and to do so quickly. There is now a proposal for a law to make this possible. The Green Party does not share the committee's and the government's assessment of the application of the principle of subsidiarity in the proposal being debated in this House today. The Green Party believes that the government and parliament should welcome the bill and that the EU should be able to contribute to halting deforestation of rainforests. Although the Government expresses some concerns about the lack of clear definitions, there is no reason to misinterpret the purpose of the proposal so gravely that it is believed to be a major obstacle to Swedish forestry. Should vague arguments about Swedish forestry be allowed to stand against the protection of rainforests? There is now no deforestation in Sweden. The government itself tends to argue that forestry is sustainable, although the Green Party believes that more is needed to protect biodiversity, adapt climate and develop more level-free forestry methods in the future. We cannot quite understand the government's politicisation of this subsidiarity issue. The government should not consider forestry that is considered to comply with Swedish forestry law as a problem in this context. Only if the government assumes that forestry will violate reasonable rules for sustainability or environmental rules in the environmental code would there be reason to believe that definitions of sustainable logging or forest degradation could be a problem for Swedish forestry. We certainly do not hope that the Swedish Government assumes that it is a breach of the law that will define Swedish forestry. In particular, the government and the majority of the committee point out that the Commission's proposal contains definitions such as, for example, sustainable logging and forest degradation, which include a focus on minimizing large fellings. These examples are used as a basis for the conclusion that the orientation of the proposal as it stands will lead to detailed regulation of national forestry which is not in line with the principle of subsidiarity. In the debate on the Commission's proposal today, those parties who now want Sweden to submit a reasoned opinion to the Commission from a central point. The Commission's proposal is not an end to the discussion of the proposal. It's not a complete bill. The government has every opportunity in negotiations in the Council to influence the precise wording. On the other hand, Sweden's action risks seriously undermining the opportunities in the EU to actually do something concrete about the problems of rainforest deforestation. If all Member States were to act like Sweden in this situation, it would undermine the possibility of having effective legislation in place – quickly – which could contribute to a real solution to an acute problem. It is also important that management takes place urgently because the time factor plays a role here. We all know that the world does not have many years to reverse the parallel crises – the climate crisis and the natural crisis. And the rich countries of the world have a special responsibility to act quickly, resolutely and collectively. Let us use the strength of the cooperation of the Member States in a more constructive way. Madam President, I would like The Commission's proposal for a regulation concerns operators or traders making cocoa, coffee, palm oil, soya, wood and beef with several products which have a significant impact on deforestation. The proposal provides for these products to be regulated so that they do not enter the EU internal market or are exported from the Union. We in the European Union should not contribute to the impoverishment of rainforests or deforestation. There is and has been a broad debate on these issues in the EU context for over ten years. There is a great deal of support from many different companies, organisations and citizens about the need to step up efforts to stop the destruction of the rainforests. We would rather have seen a discussion here in Parliament about extending the bill. Fair climate change must ensure respect for indigenous peoples and safeguard the sustainable use of small farmers. This applies in particular to small-scale organic coffee and cocoa farmers. Tree farming should be developed as a climate measure and included in a clear way. The Green Party also believes that the rules should apply to biotopes other than rainforests, such as savannahs and steppes. There are many different natural environments that are threatened by plantation operations, such as agricultural products. The Commission's objective of the proposal is commendable and should be welcomed. It is also clear that there is a need for reinforced work at European level to address the problems. This is not something that Sweden has the ability to handle on its own. Reducing deforestation and the depletion of forests is crucial for the climate, and here the EU has both a great opportunity and a great responsibility to do everything in its power to reduce the climate and environmental impact caused by EU consumption and production. In this way, global greenhouse gas emissions can be reduced, as well as the loss of biodiversity. The IPCC report, presented on Monday, clearly shows the links between climate and nature protection. The EU's climate policy must cover all sectors of society: industry, transport, agriculture and forestry. This is something that we should accept, not reject. It is no wonder that EU climate policy affects Swedish forestry. The EU's climate policy will affect Swedish forestry. It's supposed to affect the whole community. It goes without saying that if we make demands on the outside world, we must meet the corresponding requirements ourselves. It is not so difficult to justify that if we are involved in saving the rainforests, we must at the same time ensure that the Swedish forest companies live up to the environmental legislation we have had in Sweden for decades. The EU and we living in Europe are jointly responsible for the deforestation that is taking place in the world's rainforests, and in order to have a real opportunity to influence developments at global level, the EU's production of corresponding products must have high credibility. Europe cannot ask anyone else to act if it does not. It is therefore necessary to set an example and work systematically on the issues. There must be synergy and a clear, common direction between the EU level and the national level. The government's work and the work we do here in Parliament should be fully focused in EU cooperation on producing concrete views and really contribute with competence and knowledge so that the details of the regulations that are designed will be very good instead of Sweden taking a position where you want to dismiss the regulation that can actually save the rain forests. Madam President, I would like We know the enormous importance of the European Union. Let us work together in Europe to achieve results for peace, climate and democracy. I support the Green Party's reservation.
i-2aCWZwdJLN8zNPkF1u23dm	Madam President, I would like The fact that we are committed to European issues and to a greater extent give reasoned opinions seems to us to be extremely reasonable. It may also be our duty – we have, of course, taken a position on membership of the European Union on certain premises, where some issues are common, but other issues belong to national self-determination. In this particular case, we have noted that there is reason to question some of the proposal for a regulation. Then we can take a very clear stand on measures to reduce deforestation and illegal activities, as well as measures concerning trade on the European market. However, with regard to the proposal that is now on the table, it is very unclear whether it is in danger of going into several areas of national self-determination. In that case, we believe that this is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. After all, this matter is not clear and therefore it is extremely reasonable to give a reasoned opinion. As far as imports are concerned, we believe that poverty reduction and food security in third countries must be taken into account. Poorer countries' access to the EU's internal market should not be unnecessarily restricted. It is important that the conditions of small farmers are taken into account, that we can ensure their long-term purchasing relations and that this is included in the trade we have with these countries. As the Green Party highlighted, we also want to mention the importance of tree farming, where trees are grown in combination with agriculture and on the same land. It increases productivity, ensures biomass, ensures food security, restores soils and provides ecosystem services. It is reasonable that we should also point out on this issue that we need to target aid. We need to use the EU's partnerships, programmes and financial tools to strengthen the ability of small-scale farmers to meet the EU's sustainability requirements. It is reasonable that we ensure reforestation on deforested surfaces, so that it is possible to live on and use those surfaces in a sustainable way. I myself have visited We Effects' agroforestry activities in Tanzania, Kenya, Rwanda and Palestine. I have seen with my own eyes how these projects have given women the tools to support not only themselves, but also their families and entire villages, while ensuring that soil erosion is not increased and that they contribute to sustainable exports. I think it is unnecessary to build new bureaucracy to ensure their continued existence. We and the Swedish Government will continue to pursue this. When it comes to national self-determination, there are several issues that we mean as much about our self-determination as the self-determination of Kenya, Tanzania and Rwanda. We are defending the WTO's trade rules. We can be concerned and think today about whether Russia should not be thrown out of the WTO trading system altogether. We can see that Brazil and China are not complying with the rules and that there is a need to take a strong stance in a number of areas. This combined with the fact that we have sustainable agriculture and forestry in Sweden, which produces many products that we want to continue to export, means that we believe that this part lies in national self-determination. We have a national responsibility to ensure that we do not deforest our own forests – something we have managed for over a hundred years – and then we must also give other countries the confidence to manage it. We do not want to build unnecessarily on the European bureaucracy in this area. I therefore support the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment's proposal in the MJU19 Opinion on Subsidiarity assessment of the Commission's proposal for a regulation concerning the placing on the Union's market and exports from the Union of certain raw materials and products linked to deforestation and forest degradation.
i-TdoNGiHAoqohHspzHnvRPf	Madam President, I would like I am very pleased that a Social Democrat here in the Swedish Parliament mentions small farmers and tree farms, i.e. agroforestry. As we have fought for the Social Democrats to see small farmers, tree farms and other things in the agricultural policy we have here in Sweden! I hope we will see this in the future. There's been a certain flaw there, I can tell you. I have a question for Isak From regarding the new regulation we are now discussing and how to deal with it from the Swedish side. In the subsidiarity test, we say no with regard to Swedish forestry. Does Isak From think that the forestry sector can be decoupled from climate policy in the EU in general? Does it also apply to other directives and regulations? I am thinking, for example, of RED II – are the Social Democrats thinking the same thing there?
i-6h1NiDqoUwar2thFQkbxt3	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions, Maria Gardfjell! Just as I began my speech with, I think there is reason for Parliament and the government to be more involved in European affairs. We have seen in a number of areas that concern Swedish forestry and agriculture and Swedish exports that the EU wants to take over in matters that are actually at the national level and on which we have agreed are within national self-determination. The fact that we have a common environmental and climate policy in Europe where we set common goals that nations have to follow is one thing. It is not comparable, and it should not be included in the EU's competence that the EU should build a new, large bureaucracy that should govern Swedish forestry. It is a matter of principle, and we intend to engage more in this.
i-Qkt8parpUACLefgWNLTN1o	Madam President, I would like There is no doubt that the EU is responsible for climate policy. There is no doubt that the EU is also responsible for biodiversity issues. In these policy areas, there is a policy that affects the whole of society – all sectors of society, including forestry. What would it look like if forestry were given a free pass from any concern about climate policy? Would we then be able to reach the Paris agreements? Doubtful! In this case, the regulation is about an opportunity to save the world's rainforests. If I heard correctly, Isak From thinks that we should be more involved in stopping this type of regulation, which could actually save the world's rainforests, given that we want to exploit Swedish forestry and develop it in a more environmentally damaging direction.
i-4ZCBT1UnMFdoCGT8BVN27D	Madam President, I would like I believe that we in Sweden agree that the forest is of great importance for achieving the climate goals. A growing forest binds carbon dioxide. We can use it to produce climate-smart products. We can build houses, make biofuels out of the residual products and continue to make paper and cardboard out of the thinning timber. I think we are seeing this in Sweden. We have seen for a very long time what a great opportunity Swedish forestry has to actually contribute in the climate transition. We want to ensure that. We think that this is unnecessary, and we think that the European Union is pushing national self-determination. As I said in my speech, this trial risks reducing the chances of small farmers supporting themselves. We need to talk a lot more about afforestation. Then Bolsonaros Brazil will not do what the EU wants or what Sweden wants at all. He also supports Putin, which only highlights the issue even more. There, quite different incentives are probably needed. For our part, we are quite clear on where the issue should be dealt with. The question of Swedish forestry is best dealt with in Sweden.
i-BK19m9yJtTbbB9iu2EGnWR	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to support the committee's proposal. This is a subsidiarity examination of a matter that I am not going to read the name of, because that is so far. Together, we have a majority in the Committee on the proposal which is similar to what the government thinks: this is a proposal which restricts subsidiarity. It restricts Swedish self-determination over the forest. That is why it is good that a majority has landed as we have. It is not that we do not think that the issue of global deforestation is an important issue; there are huge such concerns around the world. But this proposal, like very many other proposals that are currently coming from the EU linked to the forest, is some form of forest socialism, which we cannot support on the part of the Moderates. They want to go in and restrict the right to use, the right to decide and the right to property. They want to regulate in detail how individual forest owners should carry out their forestry activities. We can never accept that, Madam President. The document contains expressions such as deforestation-free, forest degradation and various other words. These are words that properly handled can be very important in this context. However, mishandling at EU level by, for example, EU Commissioners and the Commission as a whole can have quite the opposite effect, especially when linked to national self-determination. When we visited the EU Environment Commissioner, Sinkevičius, we talked about how Swedish forestry works. The forestry industry itself told us how Swedish forestry works. They explained how we have worked for a long, long time in Sweden with the sustainable use of privately owned forests and corporate forests. The Commissioner then says quite clearly: I do not believe this. Then it is clear that when this type of expression – deforestation-free, forest degradation and sustainable logging – is interpreted at the level of the European Commission, it can have quite the opposite effect to what we think and think of them. It is therefore important to point out that this is something that in some respects violates the principle of subsidiarity. The Treaty on European Union does not provide a legal basis for a common forestry policy. That is absolutely the case. On the other hand, there are climate policy and environmental policy, where we shall have greater and more important cooperation. But it must not lead us down to the level of forest owners, to take detailed control, to come up with foresticks and to say how to use our Swedish family forests, which we have used wisely for generations. That is why it is important, Madam President, that, as Isak From from the Social Democrats said here earlier, we mark that it is a strength when we can unite and send this back to the European Union, to the Commission, to the Council and to Parliament: in Sweden we do not want you to drive with us, because we have a long and important history of how we best use Swedish forests. We want to be a part of and help in the climate work, and we do that absolutely best by using the forest.
i-MW7vBsB33A7rTmgHCAQpqT	Madam President, I would like I have to ask John Widegren a question about a few things that emerged in his speech. Environment Commissioner Virginijus Sinkevičius was in Sweden and met us in the Environment and Agriculture Committee. I would like to say that what Mr Widegren claims Sinkevičius did not say at the meeting we had with him in committee. The Commissioner listened to us when we talked about how Swedish forestry works and was also very interested in hearing with us how we felt that individual forest owners could actually be better managed by the EU. Need more support? Is there a need for development in this area? He showed great interest in what was said in the Environment and Agriculture Committee and here in Parliament. John Widegren claims that what the EU is doing is forest socialism. He also claims that when it comes to climate and environmental policy, it is the EU's responsibility, but it must not affect Swedish forestry. My question to John Widegren is: how can it be that the Moderates approve of the EU's focus on combating deforestation when matters relating to climate policy are dealt with in other committees, such as the Committee on Foreign Affairs, but do not approve of it in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture?
i-XdWigHe68xxgLU8kx7BMhc	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions. With regard to Environment Commissioner Sinkevičius, he did not say this at the committee meeting, but that is what he said to the forestry industry when he met them after the meeting. I just said in my speech that both politics and the forestry industry had met him. I understand that the Green Party is so positive about this, because the Green Party is always positive when it comes to restricting ownership and use. We've learned that now. When it comes to the melody that is being heard from the EU and the Commission at the moment, which is about the desire to go in and regulate in detail and influence how we use our Swedish forests, the Green Party is cheering on. Because that is exactly what the Green Party wants to do; it wants to mess up the rights of use and property rights. I am fully aware that forests will be an important part of the EU's climate action. Actually, that's the way it is. But we don't want touch sticks about how we best use the forest here in Sweden, because we know that best here in Sweden. There are an incredible number of examples in the EU of countries that do not know at all how to use forests in a sustainable and long-term way. That is why I would like to stress once again the importance of allowing us to decide for ourselves how we operate and how we control our forestry in detail. Deforestation is a hugely important issue globally, but it is not the case that this whole issue is about whether we stand for or against deforestation and the importance of working actively in the EU with it. This is a test of subsidiarity, in which we believe that certain parts are involved in Swedish self-determination. Global deforestation is a serious problem, and we Moderates are prepared to work with it at all levels.
i-CeWv5GzWBRVAeCGaU9oWzw	Madam President, I would like The regulation concerns agricultural products. It concerns soya, beef, coffee, cocoa and many different types of products that we import into the EU from other countries. The production of these products contributes very strongly – most strongly – to deforestation. The regulation also deals with elements relating to the previous timber regulation. That is why it has been merged into a whole. But why have the Moderates not been clear that the parts related to agricultural production should not be a problem for Sweden?
i-VhCxeVLuVjkjfWUCLSJvUc	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. As I said, this is a subsidiarity test in which we have considered that certain elements violate the principle of subsidiarity, as we point out in the committee's position. This is a matter on which it will continue to work, and of course we will have to take a stand on it and cave down deeper in detail in it. When it comes to agricultural products and other things in deforestation areas, there must be a balance. I thought Isak From highlighted it very well in his line change earlier. It is not possible to just say that this and this is right, but this is wrong when it comes to deforestation and possible agricultural land. We can also have examples in Sweden where we choose to take down certain forest areas to farm the land as agricultural land. How, then, should you approach it? That's a very interesting question. I think we will have reason to come back to this matter as and when. Today it was the subsidiarity test that we discussed. As I said, I support the committee's position.
i-WjtTCKTQqggZsrmRzf6QNJ	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture's proposal for a subsidiarity review of parts of a proposal from the European Commission. It is about restricting the sale of raw materials and products that can be associated with deforestation and depletion of the world's forests. The background is that forests are disappearing at a worrying rate in many parts of the world. Some of the timber is exported, and forests are often replaced by crops whose products are also sometimes exported. There has therefore been an international movement for many years to ensure that products marketed do not come from or lead to deforestation. Oil palm products are a well-known example. We support this movement in principle. Now that the European Commission is taking initiatives to prevent forests from disappearing or not being managed sustainably, including Europe's forests in this, it is doing so in a way that is worrying, because it increases the possibilities for managing Member States' forestry in detail and imposes burdensome and unnecessary red tape on it. We have seen the same trends for years now, and on an increasing scale, despite the fact that forestry is the competence of the Member States and not that of the European Union. We believe that this is serious and unnecessary. Europe's forests have been developing in a positive direction for a long time. Unlike many areas of the earth, forest areas are growing very rapidly within the EU. Around 11 million hectares have been added only between 1990 and 2010, mostly due to the natural distribution of forests after grazing has been reduced but also due to conscious efforts. At the same time as the forest area increases, the timber is being taken to be more and more raw material efficient. So we make more useful products out of less timber. Sweden and Finland have been the leaders in this transition and continue to be so. Sweden's sharply reduced oil consumption over the last 50 years is mainly due to the rapid expansion of nuclear power around 1980, but almost as much due to a significant increase in the use of biofuels from the forest industry. According to the OECD's internationally accepted way of counting, Sweden's carbon dioxide emissions in 2019 were equal to 4,19 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalents per capita. The world average is higher, 4.93 tonnes. Germany's is more than twice as large, 8.52 tonnes. In the EU, only Latvia is actually as low as Sweden. Latvia also has a well-developed forest industry and uses a lot of forest fuel. Nevertheless, in its taxonomy for sustainable products, the European Commission has tried to limit the use of forest-based fuels at the longest. With the support of the same taxonomy for sustainable products, the Commission also tries to classify Swedish forestry as non-sustainable. We want to repeat from the Swedish Democrats what we have often said: Swedish forestry is in terms of economics, ecology and social issues one of the world's, if not the world's, most sustainable. Besides, things are getting better all the time. In the area of LULUCF, this Parliament last year offered the European Commission very generous benchmarks for how much carbon net Swedish forests should absorb. Now the European Commission, on its own initiative, wants to increase the demand for Swedish forests' net removals more than for other countries, so strongly that it risks leading to a reduction of Swedish fellings by more than 15 per cent. The consequences for Swedish rural areas would be unacceptable. In addition, there would be a significant decrease in interest in investing in Sweden continuing to lead the development of new bio-based products that can replace fossil-based products. The European Commission has also presented a proposal for a new forestry strategy for the EU in 2021. The proposal deviates from the principles of how such a strategy should be developed in collaboration with the Member States. This has been mentioned several times by leading forest countries in the EU, but we see very few signs that the Commission is taking on board the protests. On 5 July, the Austrian Minister for Forestry wrote a complaint to the European Commission about this, signed by eleven forest countries, including Finland. But Sweden did not sign. The Swedish Democrats wanted to create a committee initiative so that at least afterwards Sweden would fully agree with the letter, but this proposal did not get a majority in committee. We believe that so far the government has not acted sufficiently strongly to defend our national interests in relation to forestry issues. The forestry sector is not only one of our most important industrial industries, but also the industrial sector that is most important for our rural areas. In addition, the further up the country, forestry plays an increasingly important role in the combined agricultural and forestry sector and its economy. It is what keeps our fields, meadows and farms open that beautiful areas in the middle of the forests that otherwise cover almost the whole of our country. The economy of agriculture needs to be strengthened in order to increase our self-sufficiency in food, but also in terms of biodiversity. Again and again, wordings from the European Commission appear in different contexts aimed at Nordic forestry, such as not using planting trees as the main way of renewing forests or switching to so-called continuity forestry. But with the tree species that are completely dominant in the Nordic countries, Madam President, at this point we have a very long experience of what works well and what does not under our circumstances. Continuity forestry was even banned for a while because it had long proved to be impoverishing our forests. It is permitted today, but it would be an unnecessary detour to increase the biodiversity of Swedish forests to go back to continuity forest use over any major part of our forest land. Rather, by leaving representatives of the previous generation of trees much better results are achieved more quickly. Madam President, I would like The European Commission is not neutral on forestry issues and neither respects the Member States' right to decide on their own forestry or even their own knowledge and experience. This clearly shows how important it is for forestry to continue to be held as a national issue within the EU. With regard to the proposal now made by the European Commission, it is therefore a question of asking for a subsidiarity test in certain parts. We are talking about deforestation and the depletion of forests. With regard to the depletion of forests – I believe that in some places it has also been translated into a "destruction" – a definition is missing. It is not difficult to see, on the basis of what the European Commission has done in the past, that the European Commission could create definitions that mean that when a given forest batch is harvested it is considered depleted biologically, and products from there would then not be allowed to be sold. This would be an absurd approach and would make our forest management and industry impossible. The most important thing is that habitats over a larger area are not reduced. Towards the EU, Sweden is responsible for ensuring that the species living in our forests continue to do so. We are doing well today, and we do not need new bureaucratic burdens to do it even better in the future. Therefore, not only the proposal that is now on the table, but also future similar proposals from the European Commission that can be used against our forestry must be sent back with a clear note that they violate the principle of subsidiarity – preferably in collaboration with other forest countries, not least the Nordic and Baltic countries. We note that the Commission is now again opening up a very worthwhile effort, in this case to reduce deforestation in poor countries, and at the same time giving itself new tools to govern and bureaucracy the way in which the forest owners of the EU Member States are to manage their forests. We cannot accept that. If only the expression deforestation is left behind in the Commission's proposal, if deforestation is clearly defined as forest felling without being rejuvenated sufficiently and thus transformed into other land use, or unfortunately no land use, and if EU Member States with national statistics are allowed to do so vis-à-vis the EU and report on how it looks in the respective countries from year to year, then we in the Swedish Democrats could accept a proposal for a regulation. But this is just the beginning. Let me conclude by saying that we are living at a time when European unity is more important than ever. In order for the EU countries to have an opportunity to get through this difficult period together, it is necessary that the European Commission starts to respect the division of power better between the Member States' level and the common in a completely different way than it has shown so far on forestry and bioenergy issues. European cooperation which ignores the experience and knowledge of the Member States is not in a position to solve the problems we face. That is why we believe it is important to ensure that this proposal is recast so that it is not allowed to lead to increased governance and bureaucracy of our forestry.
i-NVkdhNAV3rszufhouWBJv7	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the subsidiarity test of the Commission's proposal for a regulation on the placing on the Union market and exports from the Union of certain raw materials and products associated with deforestation and forest degradation. Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in its opinion. The forest becomes far too polarized, which is something I usually come back to and will do even today. In the TV programme Swedish news last Friday, the program leader Kristoffer raised the issue of species protection and talked about either saving all crows or eradicating all crows, and then he exclaimed: Can't we just have it as usual in forestry matters! Madam President, I would like This is an ambition that we in the Liberals are striving for. Can't we just have it as usual? The aim of the proposal is to minimise the EU's contribution to deforestation and depletion of forests worldwide. We are, of course, talking about timber in the world, in third countries, but we are also talking about cocoa, coffee, palm oil and soya. We do not have such products in Sweden. That is not the problem you want. Of course, Sweden should have sustainable fellings, strive for more varied forestry and minimize large fellings. But this is something that we will be able to do at national level. Why? Because we have a very good forestry team that is adapted to our type of forest. We can solve and work for these issues in a very good way in Sweden. There could be a problem, Madam President, with the fact that we now have fields that were once planted again. We have many planted fields in Småland. One day we may want to open those fields again, but it says forest on them, so it would mean deforestation if we need more productive agricultural land in Småland. In these times, when we need to raise our food readiness and not lower it, we need to keep it in the back of our head. We also have a major housing shortage in our country, and the question arises as to where to build new residential areas. Many municipalities are not willing to build on agricultural land, which is good, but then we need to deforest in order to build many homes. There, too, may be problems. We have a very good example in Habo at home in Jönköping County. A residential area was deforested there, but housing was not built there, but the land was moved to the deforested land and a new field was built there and it was able to build homes where it used to be farmland. They made a trade. But what if we are not allowed to deforest our land? We also need to tie more carbon into the ground, and even there problems may arise when we want to re-weigh. We have absolutely protected forests to be preserved. We have our mountain forests. We have our Amazon to take care of. But I think we are wise to deal with these issues nationally. That is why we need to send a clear signal back to the Commission. It is not about them throwing this proposal into the trash basket, not at all. It is an extremely good proposal that allows us to influence our entire production in the world and specifically in third countries where large deforestation is a real problem. It is not what we are talking about today, but we are talking about Swedish forestry which is a national matter. We need to push the Commission here to adjust its proposal and urge them to think a little longer and make a difference between rainforest and a small planted field in Småland. The aim of the proposal is to minimise the EU's contribution to deforestation and depletion of forests in countries where it is really urgent. As far as Sweden is concerned, I would like to say: Can we not just have it as usual?
i-KUHQTxT9BssDsy8wmsb4Yp	Madam President, I would like Jakob Olofsgård says: Can't we just have it as usual? Then I think that what has been common for far too long is that the rainforests are impoverished, harvested and deforested. It's been common. I don't want to, and the Green Party doesn't want it to be as usual. We want change and improvement. The fact that we have to stop felling rain forests is not just because we think it is fine with rain forest species, animals and plants, but this is one of the most crucial issues for the climate. It was also included in the recent IPCC report that protection of forests against deforestation is an extremely important issue. Can't you just have it as usual? I would like to ask Jakob Olofsgård: Is it possible with business as usual if we are to cope with the climate crisis? Is it possible not to affect Swedish forestry at all if we are to meet climate policy objectives?
i-73RV7W9TZmZ1pTJqkayavZ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Gardfjell, for the question! I would like to clarify what the debate is about today. It is not about the rainforests primarily, it is about the Swedish forests. The answer is obvious that our Swedish forests are part of the climate and affect this. I do not quite grasp the question, because I thought I was clear in my speech that we need to distinguish between these two things. One is that we in Sweden have a forestry and a forestry law that I think the honourable Member also thinks is very good and good – parts of it anyway, I hope – that we need to work with and surely can improve in many ways and thus do good for the climate in Sweden. The second is that this is a question of addressing third countries with regard to the products produced there and what we import into our country. That is what this is about, and not about our Småland overgrown fields, that we may need to open up again to produce more food for our country.
i-AoRDLbWCwefVvE5zcxM8rv	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that if a spruce forest planted in a field in the 1950s were to be harvested today in order to make a tree farm, new pastures or similar, it would not be regarded as deforestation at all. But it might be a question to get into a little more. I would like to say that, if we are to demand from other countries that they meet the requirements that we want to see in Europe, we must of course be able to meet those requirements ourselves. It is about rhymes and reasonableness in trade and politics in the world. We cannot impose higher demands on others than those we ourselves live up to. At the same time, one might ask whether we in Sweden do not believe that we should be able to meet demands to avoid large-scale deforestation and to conduct sustainable forestry. Do we not think that we can adapt our forestry laws and regulations so that we can manage to manage our forestry in a way that is reasonable and comparable to the requirements we impose on Brazil and other countries not to devastate their rainforests?
i-3j1r4kRMqpyq9gAWNJ2hC8	Madam President, I would like Thank you, honourable Member, for repeating the same question. We have good opportunities to work and work with the forest in our country. We are not in the same situation as with the rain forests. The fact that I am saying that we would just like to have it as usual again has a lot to do with the polarisation that the Green Party has been involved in. During this term of office and the previous term of office there has been uncertainty about forestry issues, which has led to this polarisation. For precisely the reason that the Green Party is part of the polarisation that we see in precisely the forestry issues and that we do not wish to see, I use that expression. That's why we liberals are now in a very narrow middle, and there's a lot of wind in that forest right now. But we are clear that we do not want more polarisation on this issue, but we want to be able to reason together soundly.
i-XHSvb94KyGZBxJJ8tkeL3z	Madam President, I would like I have quickly and funnyly been thrown into the debate instead of my colleague Magnus Oscarsson. In addition, I have been sitting out in the chamber in a digital meeting with the Environment Committee and have therefore not heard what has been said in the debate. This is a question of subsidiarity. The EU Treaty is very clear; it contains nothing about our forests. So the EU should not be concerned about and detailed regulation of our forests. The forest is national competence and should be so. The detailed regulation that we note that the EU is repeatedly trying to implement must be stopped. We have therefore been very clear with regard to the government. Every time we have discussions on forestry issues, we want to get the position that the forest is national competence. We want it in every time, to really wear suspenders and belt. We have seen that the government has not always delivered. We have noted that the government has failed to attend meetings with like-minded forest countries in the EU. We have also noted that it has not signed letters that have been written by like-minded countries within the EU. That makes me a little worried. That's why we have to mark. Madam President, I would like As I said in a debate before Christmas, deforestation really is not a problem in the Swedish context. Our big problem in the countryside is that it is growing again. That's our challenge. This applies, as I said, to a subsidiarity test. That's what we're going to discuss. We are in favour of giving a reasoned opinion, because this is going too far. It does not comply with the principle of subsidiarity.
i-W97hRoFyG3RYG7cmZq1Jky	Madam President, I would like I support the Committee on Environment and Agriculture's proposal in its opinion. Normally we might not even have a debate on this subject. Nevertheless, it is an important subject to discuss. This is because many of us believe that the Commission takes too much freedom from Swedish forestry policy and the way in which we manage our forests. We have seen that this autumn has come and that there will be a large number of proposals concerning our forestry policy. Everyone agrees that forestry policy is a national matter. But the Commission and the EU are detouring through climate policy to influence Swedish forestry policy. That's the problem. One might imagine that it is good to have a common view of how we should manage the forest. The problem is we don't have a common forest. Forests do not look the same in Europe. It does not look the same in Italy, Spain, Germany or France as it does in Sweden and Finland. 70 per cent of Sweden's land area is forest. The Commissioner dealing with these issues comes from a country with 17% of forests. Shouldn't that Commissioner first ensure that his own country regenerates the forests before he demands that we in Sweden should not use our forests? In a hundred years we have doubled the forest in Sweden. Which other country has done so? We're in good control. We have forest taxiing on our forests, we manage our forests and we replant. This particular proposal concerns deforestation. I do not think any of us in this House think it is wrong to stop deforestation in South America and South-East Asia. But show some experience in how the Commission interprets its own proposals, many of us believe that this will be a blow to Swedish forestry. Perhaps not in this text, but in other texts relating to deforestation, we can read that it will be energetic that we will not be allowed to harvest the forest in the way we do today. It is clear that felling affects the forest. No one says it doesn't. But you have to look at the whole picture, look at it in a century's perspective and look at it at the landscape level. We harvest less than 1 per cent of the Swedish forest per year. We who are in the forest also see that it is not the scallop everywhere. Kalhyggena in Sweden is generally 4 – 5 hectares. It can be difficult to know how big 4 to 5 hectares are. It's smaller than the King's Garden. Then, for example, Sveaskog says that they have occasional fellings up in Norrland of 20 hectares. But that's not the picture that's being painted. It is painted a picture of us in Sweden also clearing our forests, which is not true. The interpretations that go through will have a major impact on Swedish forestry in the future. None of us, as I said, find it strange that we should stop the logging of rain forests or at least demand that the rain forests be reforested. But that has nothing to do with Swedish forestry.
i-NzG4GREXQmen6MeS5wPVwn	Madam President, I would like Peter Helander says that the Commission is detouring climate policy in order to access Sweden's forests, or something similar. In fact, deforestation is an important part of climate policy. In Glasgow, over 100 countries promised to stop deforestation before 2030. The EU is part of that group. Many EU Member States, including Sweden, have also signed the agreement reached at the Glasgow climate summit. If I know the Center Party correctly, it is a party that is still relatively close to the Green Party when it comes to the importance of achieving what we agreed in the Paris Agreement and in terms of climate targets. Does Peter Helander seriously mean that climate policy in the EU and globally must not in any way affect Swedish forestry?
i-Y61g12QXZtQAQerWF9zc2U	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Gardfjell, for the question. I'm saying no. The problem is that the Commission has lost its way in how best to take care of the climate. We use our forest to replace fossil products and processes. Why does the Commission not take this into account? If you are to take the climate threat seriously, you need to have a holistic perspective and see what the whole output is. The fact that Sweden and the EU are not responsible for deforestation in South America and South-East Asia is self-evident. But in Sweden we have no problem with deforestation. We replant and manage our forests, and we have twice as much forest today as a hundred years ago. I can agree with Mr Gardfjell that it is important that we manage the Paris Agreement. But here the Commission does not take into account all the parameters, and I find it incredibly regrettable that it does not. One forgets one part when it comes to combating the climate threat. I do not really know why, but the Commission has a basis for decision. When I have spoken to the WWF, as did Mr Gardfjell, they have said that they are not running their political campaign in Sweden anymore, but are running it at European level. That's how they can get to Sweden's forestry policy. This is what WWF says openly to me. They have great power and can certainly influence the Commission. Another thing is how Sweden reports how much forest we protect. Member Gardfjell and I have often talked about Sweden not reporting in the same way as other EU countries. If we did, we would go from protecting the least forest in the EU to perhaps protecting the most. This parameter has not been taken into account by the Commission. When we have met the Commissioners, we have noticed that they do not understand this.
i-Ap2KkBNjaPMkhnSWGPTm9M	Madam President, I would like Peter Helander says that we have no deforestation in Sweden and that we in Sweden do not have the problems that exist in the rain forests. What a regulation like this says, which is a kind of due diligence principle, is that the demands that we are making, for example, on Brazil that they should not deforest the rainforests, we ourselves should also live up to. But if we do not have problems with deforestation or serious degradations, as stated here, I wonder why this is a problem for Sweden. Why can't the Center Party say that you shouldn't exaggerate how the regulations will affect Sweden? Why is it that the Center Party claims that we must say no to this with reference to Swedish forestry if we do not have these problems? I do not make this mathematics go together, Madam President. I think this matter of Swedish forestry is beginning to look like excessive nationalism. We are a country in Europe. We must live up to EU climate and environmental legislation. We must give serious emphasis to knowledge and views in order to improve legislation in the European Union. But if you stand here and just say no, it will only lead to other countries defining for us what the legislation should look like. It does not get any better, Madam President.
i-HNoyuR8ChKSoZC1WtnTLtW	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your comments, Mr Gardfjell. I would argue that the European Union is doing the wrong thing. If we are to combat the climate threat, we must see this as a whole. Mr Gardfjell, like me, knows that the EU has views on how we use our forests in Sweden. It will be a limitation. This is not just about this proposal, it is the consequence of many other proposals where they have views on how to use our forest. This means that we cannot use the forest to combat the climate threat. The EU is missing the whole point. Other countries should not decide this. Of course you can set levels, but you should not regulate details in the way that the EU is doing now. The EU is the champion of the detailed regulation of the countries. We can't have it like that. When the Forest Board held its annual conference on the forest programme a while ago, an official said that the whole of the EU must have the same order. He was from Portugal. I understand he has a different view of the forest. It is not possible to compare the forests of Portugal with those of Sweden and Finland. We cannot have a common detailed regulation that governs all countries. If we are to regulate this, it must be done on a horizontal basis, and the countries themselves must be allowed to manage their own forestry policy.
i-BX5Nz1HPB65j15fwdbgVhJ	Madam President, I would like I apologise, but I forgot to endorse the committee's proposal. I would like to do so because there was so much consensus behind the proposal.
i-4QKG4FDCe85sUtHQ6C9US1	Madam President, I would like Society is undergoing change, and indeed our whole society is doing so these days. The labour market is also changing and has always been, but now it is happening at an accelerated pace due to digitalisation. We have a completely different labour market today than both 10 and 20 years ago. It is positive that societies are developing, and Europe must be involved in these developments and not be left out. Labour market change, of course, has social and labour law implications and challenges, and the proposal we are discussing today is about the Commission's proposal for a directive to regulate platform work. Rather, today we are examining the Commission's proposal in terms of subsidiarity. In its argument, the Commission raises a number of points which it believes are consistent with the principle of subsidiarity, such as the cross-border movement of platform services and the pursuit of unfair commercial practices by certain platforms. This is certainly correct, but it does not automatically mean that legislation at European level is most appropriate. The parties in the Swedish Parliament broadly agree on this. There are many good things about Europe. We've really seen that in the last few days. It has been made quite clear. I am proud that the European Union has demonstrated such a strong unity and so clearly condemned Russia's actions. Having a common single market with fair rules of play and fair competition are also self-evident EU communities. But that does not mean that the legislation needs or should be common in all areas. Let me repeat one thing that the Moderates have said countless times in this House. Our view is that labour market policy should be determined primarily nationally, in many cases even locally. Madam President, I cannot help but recall the risks that the Moderates saw with the social pillar. Let me be clear: this is another proposal from the social pillar. The fears we had called Prime Minister Stefan Löfven fog curtains, but they have now come true. The Moderates will continue to protect the Swedish model. As I said, we have a changing labour market, but all the Member States of the European Union also have different labour market models, which create different needs. The Moderates consider that each Member State is best placed to decide which rules are most appropriate for that Member State's labour market. Otherwise, we see a risk of businesses and jobs moving outside the EU rather than being created within the EU. We also see a great risk that the directive will make it more difficult for companies to operate their businesses and offer services because this would impose an unreasonable administrative burden. The proposal as a whole is therefore contrary to both the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality. Madam President, I would like The Commission's proposal is another one in the series of proposals in the field of labour market which threatens our Swedish labour market model, and we have specifically pointed out Article 4 of the proposal which in principle invalidates the Swedish concept of workers. We have warned against this even in other directives that we have had to deal with in this House. In conclusion, Madam President, Parliament has repeatedly stated in reasoned opinions that it is of the utmost importance that the EU respects the national competences of the Member States and instead focuses on the fact that we have a Europe that works in the areas where the EU does best. I commend our reservation.
i-5yUErGxvEaiVm6xhVJS59k	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the joint reservation in the report to be approved. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats share the concerns of several other parties about the proposal. It is a concern that we also share with the social partners. Labour market issues are usually linked to the traditions of labour law in each Member State and should then be based on national legislation and practice. For the Swedish Democrats, labour market policy is a national issue and certainly nothing to be ruled from Brussels. We have repeatedly pointed out in this House the negative consequences for Sweden and our Swedish model when the EU launches its directives and opposes the Member States' national competence in labour market matters. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats welcome the technological development that creates new jobs and services via digital platforms. This is part of the development of the increasingly digitised labour market. This is a development that Sweden must also adapt to, but then through our own model. The work now under way is part of the reformed labour market policy negotiated by the parties after a long process and which will soon be on Parliament's table. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by saying that it is of the utmost importance that the European Union respects the national competences of each Member State. When the EU crosses that border, which is now more the rule than the exception, it undermines confidence in the Commission and cohesion between the EU Member States, which can eventually be devastating. Labour market policy is a national issue. We will continue to oppose the initiatives of the European Union that we consider to be a threat to the Swedish labour market model that has served us so well for so many years.
i-MrcsUVM4XocEZKuQEHARcY	Madam President, I would like I am proud of the Europe we are now seeing. When Putin unprovoked, Ukraine is also invading the world order to which we have become accustomed. The structures that enabled us to live in peace and freedom have been broken down. The EU will step forward and show impressive leadership. It is a leadership based on unity and determination. Having said that, it seems a bit silly to talk today about working conditions for platform work. It is not because working conditions are unimportant, but because the directive we are debating is yet another example of a labour market issue that should not take up the EU's time. It should not be regulated at European level at all. The platform economy brings new jobs and growth. Of course, the social challenges that follow also require new solutions to the labour market. Instead, the Member States should be allowed to decide how it is regulated on the basis of their widely differing circumstances and situations. Both the opportunities and the challenges of the platform economy are very different in Sweden compared to, for example, Portugal. The Commission's attempt to regulate legislation throughout the EU is already doomed to failure. Madam President, I would like Centralist legislation risks failing such a fast-growing and incoherent area as the platform economy. It already holds everything from the food bids seen in the street image to experts in coding, for example. It goes without saying that a directive regulating both these groups of platform workers risks becoming rigid and hampering growth and European competitiveness. It is also the case that the most highly productive expert tasks in the platform economy are characterised by their being able to be carried out anywhere. If Member States are not in a position to respond quickly to the technological challenges that arise, development risks being halted. This, in turn, could mean that jobs move outside the EU. Within the EU we have absolutely much to learn from each other in this area. However, as we make clear in our reservation, we are opposed to more binding directives that destroy functioning labour market models. In recent years we have seen a series of initiatives from the European Commission that directly threaten the Swedish model. In the current proposal for a directive, we see this very clearly, not least in Article 4, which means that the concept of Swedish workers should be taken over more by EU law. The whole proposal is based on this presumption of employment, and the proposal is fundamentally wrong. The adoption of the proposal will have a long-term impact on the whole gig economy. Subsidiarity means that decisions should be taken at the lowest appropriate level. In this case, it is not the European level. I therefore support the reservation.
i-6JRutRjmRzBGLtpDHaTK1h	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. Over the last few days, we have seen how important it is for us to be interacted and to act well in our membership of the European Union. Like several speakers, I am proud of what we have managed to achieve within our European Community and our membership during the crisis that we are now in the midst of. We have a position on subsidiarity. The digital platform economy is growing rapidly. Today, it is estimated that around 28 million people in the EU are working in what is known as digital platforms. By 2025 it is expected to have risen to 43 million. According to the Commission, it is estimated that some 5 1⁄2 million of those working from this 43 million and of the 28 million today are wrongly assessed as self-employed. This means that it is important to be able to deal with this issue. What we now have to consider is whether this is being dealt with at the lowest level. What should be when it comes to employment relationships are minimum wages and if there are such, collective bargaining, regulation of working time, health protection, paid leave, protection against accidents at work and unemployment, sickness benefits and contribution-funded old-age pension. These are conditions that many of those who are currently employed in the Swedish labour market see as self-evident. However, this is not the case with those involved in platform work. As far as we are concerned, it is important to look at this issue. However, we are not satisfied with the proposal that has been made in dealing with this. With regard to the principle of subsidiarity, action should be taken at EU level only if it cannot be managed by the Member States themselves. We in the committee believe that the presumption of employment is the issue that is not compatible with the Commission's ambition in this part. Our proposal from the committee is that we give a reasoned opinion that the proposal is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity in relation to the question of the presumption of employment. Madam President, I would like With those words, I would like to support the committee's proposal.
i-28eFqm49wfDSDZdwizMZqS	Madam President, I would like On 15 September, the European Parliament voted on a proposal to call for stronger rights for workers in the platform economy. The gig companies have been severely criticised in recent years for poor conditions and low wages, and they are often based on arrangements where risks and overheads for which the employer is usually responsible are transferred to the workers. The proposal presented to the European Parliament was intended to remedy these problems, requiring, among other things, workers in gig companies to be regarded as employees until proven otherwise, as well as increased transparency of the algorithms used by the companies to control the work. The proposal was adopted by a large majority. Seventy-four per cent of Members voted for people working for digital platforms to benefit from the same rights as those with traditional jobs. Madam President, I would like However, Sweden stands out from the crowd. Only 9 of the 21 Swedish members voted in favour of increased rights for gigs and platform workers. This means that Sweden can boast of the dubious achievement of having the lowest support across the EU for strengthened rights among gig workers.
i-4pQhjn48bsH23ZqRkUCWfp	A benevolent interpretation is that the position of the five parties can be justified by the desire to protect the Swedish model against supranational influence. However, it is clear that the Swedish model is insufficient to respond to the emerging gig economy. The fact is that the false self-employments that the gig companies use completely eliminate the Swedish model. We have a distorted balance of power in the labour market that risks spreading the gig economy to even more sectors. When companies realise that there are loopholes around, for example, forms of employment that can be exploited, a race to the bottom of the labour market arises. Unless these loopholes are closed, there is a risk that the most ruthless employers will be given complete leeway. In practice, it is on the side of these employers that the bourgeois parties stand when they refuse to vote in favour of the proposal in the European Parliament. The emergence of the platform economy goes hand in hand with the right-wing policy of both the liberal and the conservative kind. On the one hand, the low thresholds of companies such as Foodora are hailed by Timbro. On the other hand, the bourgeois parties want to tighten up Sweden's already strict migration legislation, which is used as a weapon by the employer, in that foreign workers who dare to speak up are threatened with expulsion. Madam President, I would like The day-to-day economy that has completely exploded in recent years is quite exactly what the new ones were dreaming of more than a decade ago. Everywhere on the streets of major cities, various offers are seen in colourful uniforms rushing back and forth on bicycles and mopeds. Wages and working conditions are often under criticism. As it is said, it should pay off to work. Madam President, I would like The EU has proved to be an incredibly good force in recent days. But, in principle, the Left Party does not like the EU, and we are always clear about that. But the bourgeois parties that always talk a lot about European cooperation in time and without time, and so on, are, as happens, always against the Commission on the social pillar and other proposals aimed at improving the living conditions of people. Having said that, Madam President, the Left Party supports the government's position on the question of the subsidiarity test of platform work, and I call for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved.
i-BaNBp35EZsduszNyxVAyhs	Madam President, I would like Today it is difficult to think of anything other than the Ukrainian people's struggle for freedom and democracy. That is the freedom and democracy that we take for granted every day. The last week has been historic in many ways. One thing that has made me particularly warm about my heart is to see how the countries of the European Union have come together and demonstrated what the Union is essentially about, namely peace in Europe. The EU has also heeded Ukraine's desire to be part of the community of peace, freedom and free trade that it stands for in the future. From this point of view, it may seem a little silly to stand here and debate a question of subsidiarity in the current directives on better working conditions for platform work. At the same time, however, it is a favour because European cooperation is precisely about agreeing what we best do together and what we best decide for ourselves. In this case, we all agree that Sweden itself is best placed to decide how we define who is to be counted as an employee. It is within our national competence. This applies not least to Article 4 of the directive, which is very detailed and far-reaching. A well-functioning internal market within the EU is a priority for us liberals. Platform companies are a relatively new phenomenon, and we see that there may be a need for some common approach to platform companies because they often operate in several countries within the Union. That is why we are calling for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved. Madam President, I would like As the last speaker in today's last debate, I too would like to send my thoughts, and I believe everyone's thoughts, to Ukraine, the Ukrainian people and our counterparts in the Ukrainian Parliament. We are thinking of you and hope that you will soon be able to stand again in a speaker's seat, just like us, and discuss how you can develop your country and your democracy.
