i-TtPj7C46cZG4RTfzqEAZ9M	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me whether I and the government intend to reduce the tax on fuel so that the price of fuel in Sweden is in line with comparable countries in Europe. Fuel prices have risen sharply in recent times. The situation in the outside world is very serious, and high fuel prices are one of the consequences. However, the high fuel prices risk hitting hard on low-income households that depend on the car. On Monday 14 March, I presented the government's action package to meet the high prices of electricity and fuel, which we are now seeing as a result of the war in Ukraine. Part of the package is a proposal for a temporary reduction in taxes on petrol and diesel. The proposal means that the price at the pump is reduced by about SEK 1 and 30 öre. The tax on diesel is reduced to the EU minimum. The Government has also submitted a proposal to Parliament for a reduction in the energy tax on petrol and diesel, which means that the pump price will be reduced by 50 øre per litre from 1 May 2022. If there is an opening on the part of the European Union to look at the minimum levels of taxation, we are open to looking at it constructively. No such proposals have been presented so far. The government has also announced a support package for agriculture and forestry that includes a temporary increase in the refund of the tax on diesel. In addition to these tax reductions, the Government intends to propose a special fuel compensation that gives all car owners SEK 1 000, or SEK 1 500 for rural car owners, and that the reduction obligation be paused at 2022 reduction levels.
i-DcA2QiR3LxY7qyZjFJoYXe	Madam President, I would like Fuel prices have been the subject of debate on several occasions. Right now, there is a crisis in many sectors: agriculture, fishing, haulage, construction companies, forest contractors and so on. They depend on fuel to carry out their activities. Because of the increase in costs, many companies are currently on the brink of bankruptcy. I cannot believe that the government does not see the situation. The answer addresses the measures taken for private individuals. It's all right. But when companies do not make it, when costs are so high that companies risk going bankrupt and when food production is threatened, we are talking about a problem that lies in a completely different division. This morning I looked at what the diesel price is in Sweden. Today it says 24.37 SEK per litre. Let us compare with Denmark. Their price is 13,99 in Danish kroner. That will be 18.04 per litre of Swedish money. There's a difference of 6, 33. For a tank of 600 litres, which is common on a truck, the price difference is SEK 3 798. It is in this perspective that we have to put the discussion in. We put companies in a situation where they cannot compete. Anyone who has the slightest sense of business administration realizes that this is not going to last. The government is not taking a single step forward to do something about the situation. It's troubling. We are talking about measures that help private individuals. I don't have a problem with that. However, I have to say that you do not see the problem for businesses. And if the companies disappear, people don't have a job to go to. This is what we're talking about. The government is strongly in favour of building a high-speed railway. Is it the hack, the spit, the shovel and the wheelbarrow that apply then? If there is ever to be a workshop of the construction of new rail, there must be companies in the machine construction industry and haulage companies that can do the job, otherwise we will not see new rail at all in this country. The government is always treading wrong on the issue of fuel prices and does not understand the extent of what is happening. Earlier this week I was in contact with the care. That's interesting, because that's where we all end up sooner or later. We discussed transportation and how important they are for health care in order to care for patients, for surgery and for women who are going to have children. I was in a pretty big hospital. They would not be able to operate for a single day if the transports did not work. They need to have the equipment they need for their operations to support all health departments. They must also remove both waste and residues arising from health care operations. I know a lot of riders who transport medicine. Let us play with the idea of what happens on the day when the companies carrying out these transports stop. What are the consequences? It is this perspective that the government has lost, and it is time to focus on it.
i-VQTH1WqkydbKz2xnfXQZAd	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Morell, for an interpellation debate on an important issue, that is, the high fuel prices. I would really like to emphasise that we have exceptionally high prices now. This affects both businesses and individual households. Those who are most affected are those who have small economic margins and cannot do anything else. But businesses are also affected by the situation. Let me repeat what we have done. We have put forward proposals to reduce the price of pump from 1 May by 1.80 on diesel. It is reduced to the EU's minimum level of taxation on diesel. To say that we are not doing anything that concerns companies is strange, because we have tabled this proposal. We have also said that we will make a refund of the diesel costs for Sweden's agriculture. They will actually receive compensation for all the diesel costs they have during this period. We are making efforts here and now which, of course, also affect companies. It is also important to see that companies and households have a different situation. One household cannot pass the costs on to anyone else. If you are going to drive your child to school or go to work, the costs are yours. You can't invoice anyone else for that cost. That is why we are reforming the travel allowance and improving it. We make sure that it becomes transport neutral and that there is a difference between metropolitan and rural areas. It is a more long-term change we make to support households. Companies have a customer who has to pay for the costs that become. If input costs increase for a company, it is usually the case in our economy that it is companies that charge higher prices to customers for it. It is quite reasonable to do so, because otherwise the transports will be stopped. Then industry does not get the goods they need or the health care materials. They do not want to be involved in hospitals or industry, so they will have to pay fine for the transport that needs to be carried out. Otherwise, the transports will not be carried out. The customer wants his goods and therefore needs to pay for the transport. I know that there are companies that are stuck in long contracts and do not make price adjustments so often. They have a tougher situation right now, and I have full respect for it. But I have also seen that several industries and sectors are now shortening the agreements and ensuring that their contractual arrangements reflect their cost of carrying out the transport operations. I think it is a responsibility of a serious customer or a market operator to ensure that carriers are paid for the transport operations carried out. What, then, is Thomas Morell's suggestion in this? What is he suggesting? We propose that the tax on diesel be reduced to the EU's minimum level of taxation. What proposals does Thomas Morell think the government has completely lost?
i-2A2fTHgR7s49tNgQaTNjhs	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I have to start with precisely this if you are a serious customer. It is a little interesting that the Government says so, because among the worst to deal with in this context are state enterprises. You don't get the compensation you're supposed to get. You try to negotiate prices, and it'll be blank no. Don't shake your head, Prime Minister, 'cause I've been talking to truckers who have that worry. I think the government should talk to their state companies to make them serious. You can start there. Yes, I have suggestions. We can start by reducing the reduction obligation. It's not the government table. But you can take that discussion in the government, because then we will land on a price picture that is about the same level as in the rest of Europe. You can start there. Even Frans Timmermans has said that many parts of the fuel tax are decided nationally. Lower them first. Belgium, Germany and the Netherlands have reduced the national tax in the first situation. Should it not be enough, we will have to look further at this," says Frans Timmermans. He said that in an interview on 1 April on Swedish Radio. It may have been an April joke-- I don't know-- but it was that day anyway. We can look at, for example, how fishing is doing. There is a magazine called the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise that says that we are about to lose fishing in Sweden. It is a question of a purely economic estimate of how much it costs the fishermen to go fishing, how much fuel is spent and what the fuel costs. The fishing boats are not going out. Roger Thilander describes that about 10 to 15 fishing boats have remained in port in recent weeks. Finally, Sweden's supply of fish and shellfish is at stake. This is another sector that is facing enormous difficulties with these high fuel prices. In this respect, the government must realise that we are about to lay the hookbones for ourselves in terms of food production. Then it does not matter whether it is agriculture or fisheries, the transport of fish to and from agriculture, the transport of fish that has been withdrawn from the sea, the transport of fish to industry or the transport of fish to health care. They are about to be broken by the high prices. Something can be done about this, if only the will exists. But it must be possible to identify the situation of companies. It is bad, and the situation is also bad for ordinary individuals who find it difficult to get to and from work. You need to start reviewing this situation, Prime Minister. After all, we cannot kill our own companies, because if that happens, there will be no tax revenue at all, but only costs to society. It is time to act, and the transport companies are very clear about that. You can have a discussion with them to get a broad picture of what it looks like in several different transport sectors. If I remember correctly, Kronoberg Länstrafiken had a cost increase of 30 million to run bus services. It will not work, which will also affect people who use the bus. We have a very serious situation, and it is time for the government to do something about it.
i-WCjad7CT927STEgVLZFdCB	Madam President, I would like The government has acted, continues to act and will work on the issue of high fuel prices. We're lowering the tax to the minimum level, just like Timmermans is talking about. We are taking this national initiative. Furthermore, we have proposed a fuel compensation that the EU has nothing to do with. If our proposal goes through, all car owners will get SEK 1 000, or SEK 1 500 in sparsely populated and rural areas in assisted areas. If it is now not possible to reduce the tax on diesel more than to the EU minimum, does that mean that the Swedish Democrats will support the government's proposal for fuel compensation? We do not need European decisions there. There, 27 Member States do not have to vote in favour of a reduction below a minimum level of taxation in the EU. Are the Swedish Democrats then prepared to provide compensation to households? It may be the quickest way to compensate people with the high fuel costs. As far as the reduction obligation is concerned, I am not surprised, because what Thomas Morell is actually saying is that the reduction obligation, which has contributed to the reduction of CO2 emissions by 28% over the last ten years, should be abolished. It is the transport sector that is one of our major Achilles' hedges to achieve our climate goals. We need to reset. And here we happen to have a unique asset in Sweden's forest that can be used and which is already used to some extent to produce diesel, for example. If we get up domestic production of renewable fuels, we create both jobs and growth throughout Sweden, while reducing dependence on Putin's or Sheikh's oil. It is a way for Sweden to make us less dependent on the price fluctuations that are happening and that are hitting Swedish households and companies all the time. The Swedish Democrats do not really have a climate policy. You do not care about climate issues, Thomas Morell, and can then talk about such things as removing the reduction obligation. But what companies will be on our planet if we have a climate disaster? We have to cope with the climate, otherwise no companies or households can do anything in the future. It is very important from the Swedish Democrats that we should not have any climate policy in the field of transport. Or can Thomas Morell explain what concrete plan the Swedish democrats have for Sweden to meet the environmental objectives that we have set ourselves in this House and that means that emissions from the transport sector will be reduced by 70% by 2030? What are the Swedish Democrats' proposals that lead to this?
i-4nEwjydt1JL2dcJ1w1vaGt	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I must say that it is impressive to hear how far the government is from reality. We have not said that we should abolish the reduction obligation. We have said that we are going to lower it to the level of the EU, so that we lie down at the same level as the other EU countries, 5% and currently up to 14% by 2030. When it comes to not making ourselves dependent on Putin's oil, I say: Please come with me out one day and I will show you how it is done, Minister! The transport assignments that the Swedish haulage companies lose are taken over by the hauliers who drive illegally in Sweden, and there they smuggle in old East State diesel. You shouldn't discuss environmental goals if you don't know how it works. The price for old Russian diesel is about SEK 4 today. That's what we're talking about. Come out and join the game and see what's going to happen! We are removing the conditions for our own companies, which are at the forefront of environmental work, and bringing in those who drive on old Russian diesel. The government says we shouldn't make ourselves dependent on Putin, but that's exactly what's happening right under your nose. It's time to get out in the real world.
i-EeR5PUpyrt3WT63HSJZzLr	Madam President, I would like That was a very talking line. I did not get an answer to the question of how Sweden should achieve its climate goals – not anything. It is only increased emissions, no increased production of biofuels in Sweden that allows us to produce our own fuels that are not dependent on Putin or the Sheikhs, which create thousands of jobs around Sweden, in rural areas and in regions where we also have a lot of forest production. This is an opportunity for Sweden to manufacture our own fuels and also reduce emissions at the same time. I think it was Fossil-free Sweden that made a calculation of what would happen if the reduction obligation was reduced as strongly as the Swedish Democrats are talking about here. By 2030, a number of years, the change would mean more emissions than Sweden's total emissions over a full year in increased emissions. It is in a situation where we in Sweden, Europe and the world must reduce our CO2 emissions. If you are not able to deal with both these issues at the same time, I think you are getting lost on both the fuel issue and not least on the climate issue.
i-KAnrco6sacCy2bm65MzdmC	Madam President, I would like Niklas Wykman has asked me who should pay the contingency tax, whether I have a forecast for what effects the planned emergency tax can be expected to have on growth and employment and what I expect the emergency tax to bring to the state. The defence committee, including Niklas Wykman's party, agrees that the defence appropriations will increase to reach 2% of GDP in the long term as soon as practicable. When we strengthen Sweden's defence that strongly, it is important to ensure that the financing of the increased investments required is carried out in a responsible manner and is stable over time. This is also an important signal for security policy. The financing of the increase in defence spending will require further action unless other important public commitments are removed. Everyone in society must then contribute according to their abilities. We must also ensure that we find stable, long-term and solidarity-based financing for the expansion. The expansion must be based on a solid foundation for us to have a strong and secure defence. It is too early for me to speculate on the details of how the funding can take place and what it will have for the other effects. There is room for discussion with representatives of, among others, Niklas Wykman's party to reach as broad an agreement as possible on how we build Sweden stronger.
i-GDhqUms7HN3s3HeoSdbPdL	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. It has long been a great ambition and dream for the Social Democrats to reintroduce property tax, but they have not really known how to do it. Now it seems that the code for trying to reintroduce property tax has been broken. You should call it a contingency tax, and then you should start rolling out the tax increases in the millions of Swedish households. That is a little strange, Madam President. Mikael Damberg looks out at the great economy he is responsible for, the state economy. That's thousands of billions. He can't find a single penny for the defense. However, he looks into the kitchen windows of Swedish households and sees people sit and eat their dinner. They've cooked macaroni and fried the fur sausage. He's thinking, "I don't think that ketchup is necessary." We'll take that. Mikael Damberg's view of taxes, households, the Swedish economy and public finances cannot be understood in any other way when listening to the interpellation response. Not a single other public expenditure can be reduced in order to strengthen Swedish defence in this situation. It must be the Swedish households who pay. Madam President, I would like We talk about that we need about 0.7 or 0.8 percent more of the bnp to the defense in order to achieve our goal of strengthening the Swedish defence. This is an objective which the Moderates have now had for a long time but which Mikael Damberg has so far opposed – but which he has now awakened to be in favour, which I naturally welcome. This 0.7 or 0.8 percent Mikael Damberg cannot find anywhere in the state. He has to take them from the households. Households are now hard pressed by what is commonly called Damberg-expensive prices, when Mikael Damberg has made everything more expensive in Sweden by taxing various new things. The pensioner who goes to the store and shop sees that what previously cost SEK 10 now costs SEK 12 and that what previously cost SEK 100 now costs SEK 120. On point after point, Mikael Damberg has driven the policy that pushed up the higher prices. For the first time in a very long time, an ordinary LO family is now receiving the economic disadvantage due to a policy that Mikael Damberg is pursuing. But not anywhere in state expenditure– not on aid and not among subsidies, well, nowhere– there is the 0.7% to bring home. Mikael Damberg has made up his mind. It's normal people with regular jobs to pay. Mikael Damberg cannot imagine undertaking any review of the expenditure incurred by the state. Apparently, there are no subsidies to be reduced. There is no aid that could be cut back on. There is no high-speed train you could not build. There's no money anywhere in the state. However, Mikael Damberg sees large fortunes around the kitchen tables in Swedish homes, and it is they who should pay. Madam President, I would like It is something remarkable that a finance minister cannot find 0.7 or 0.8 percent of bnp anywhere in the state's business but is so completely convinced that it runs over with money in Swedish households that you can take it out there. You have promised to implement this emergency tax, or property tax that it is really about, and say that that is how you will finance the defense, Mikael Damberg. But you don't want to tell me how. Speaking of weakness and being weak as a nation: Is it not very strange to be a finance minister and not be able to tell how the defence should be financed?
i-4uTL95stn86G1mzn7ggyNB	Madam President, I would like It is a bit loud from Niklas Wykman because, historically, before we took office as a government, the Moderates had a period of cutbacks in defence spending while lowering taxes very sharply. It was a period when the defense was painted as a special interest and where the Moderates prioritised tax cuts before efforts for our preparedness or total defence. I think it is a good thing that we have now agreed in all political parties in the Swedish Parliament that we should reach 2% of GDP as soon as it is practically possible and we get defence from this. I believe that this is an important signal for security policy, and it is important that we do so together. This is an ambition that is placed on top of the defence decision that my government has been involved in pushing through. This means that we spend 85% more on the defense between 2014 and 2025. This is an increase of SEK 79 billion. Now this is on top of it. You should be serious about taking on a big new commitment in the public sector. This is a lot of money. We are not talking about negligible bets. That is why we have such a broad consensus on it, and that is why we need to discuss it. Then you also have to discuss: How is it to be financed? I've said two things. The first is that we cannot now at the same time pay off public debt at the rate we are doing in a situation where we are going to take on so much public expenditure. I can only say that Germany, which is expanding its defence expenditure, is doing the same. Denmark, which says that it will reach 2% of GDP in 2033, quite far ahead in the future, does so through a deficit target in the state budget that I do not advocate. I advocate a balance objective in the state budget. The Moderates say this will be expanded, but it won't cost. It's cheating people. Those sitting up there in the gallery may think it's easy to expand the defense without any consequences. I do not think that is responsible action. It would be a good signal from the Swedish Parliament for security policy if we could agree on a number of principles for funding. When we expanded the defence by 85%, as we have already decided to do, we decided to introduce a bank tax that then became a risk tax that finances parts of that expansion. It does not finance the whole but parts of the expansion. In the same way, it is reasonable to discuss: how are these expenditures to be borne in the long term? We must have an idea of this if it is to be serious and long-term funding. My problem with Moderate news is that they always point to someone else's politics and say: You can save in other areas! These are expenditures that the Moderates have not put into their budget so far. My big question is therefore: what expenditure is involved, and what tax cuts is it that Niklas Wykman does not want to implement? You always go forward with tax cuts; you only talk about taxes in this pulpit. What tax cuts are you postponing, abstaining or not going to implement in order to implement the armament of the defence? I am a little afraid that you have a secret agenda and that there are a number of savings to be made on welfare in the form of school and health care or state subsidies to the municipalities. Perhaps it should be about the poorest pensioners not receiving a guarantee supplement. I guess that'll be the first test. Is it the poorest pensioners who will pay for the Moderates' idea of expanding the defence? Or should we do it together in a community?
i-HvZ4HSaNmZ5Z47W5BMn8r5	Madam President, I would like When other people had work or studied economics at universities, Mikael Damberg really went all SSU's rhetoric schools. There are already five out of five stars on it; there is no more to prove there. What Mikael Damberg needs to prove is that he can take responsibility for the Swedish economy, where Mikael Damberg has so far proven to be very weak. Most of what Mikael Damberg has taken up in Swedish government has not gone so well. Growth has not gone so well, law enforcement has not gone so well, and now the economy is really not doing so well. What Mikael Damberg here is talking about is free fantasies or even pure lies. This isn't about it not being financed. This is a question of why Mikael Damberg necessarily thinks that Swedish households, who are already having a tough time, should pay even more when perhaps, perhaps, there is money in the state that could be used for defence instead of other things. Is it necessary to build new high-speed rail lines when we could instead renovate the defence? Do all Swedish aid money really do the benefit Mikael Damberg says they are doing, or could parts of them instead be used to rebuild the Swedish defence? Is it reasonable that it pays more to receive benefits than to work? Perhaps there are some austerity measures in the benefit system that could both help finance defence and get more people to work and thus improve their welfare, health and quality of life? Madam President, I would like However, Mikael Damberg does not have the imagination, the courage or the knowledge to ask these questions, but instead starts off from the fact that the defence is to be financed through dismantled shelters in public finances and that households should refrain even more. Sweden already has, Mikael Damberg, a third place in high taxes worldwide. If the third to fifth highest taxes in the world cannot pay for their defences, there may be reason, Mikael Damberg, to ask what the other expenditures in the state actually go to. It is a good question to ask yourself, and not only simply assume that you should remove the ketchup on the macaroni back home to be involved in paying for Mikael Damberg not wanting to review a single expense for the Swedish state. Mikael Damberg has already increased a wide range of taxes: increased employers' contributions for young people, increased petrol tax including indexation, reduced root and grid tax, abolished homework, reduced cut-off point, increased government income tax, increased savings tax, reduced job tax deduction, increased energy tax on electricity, increased resolution fee, new chemical tax, increased tax on tobacco, increased tax on alcohol, increased employer's tax rates on the elderly, reduced tax on interest on certain subordinated debt, increased vehicle tax on light vehicles, air tax, malus, abolished right to deduct meals, preferential tax on health insurance, reduced income tax rate on tax account, increased carbon dioxide tax, reduced tax exemption on certain biofuels, increased SINK for residents living abroad, increased tax on thermal power in nuclear power, and on natural gas and pesticides, increased limit on deductions on travel, increased bioms, abolished tax reduction on charities, increased tax on electric power, administrative expenditure, abolished tax exemption, increase in tax exemptions on taxes on delays and controls on foreign residents, increased tax on the thermal impact on nuclear power and on pesticides, increased tax on excise duty on excise duty on excise duty on energy, increased tax on excise duty on excise duty on excise duty on excise duty on excise duty on alcohol duty on electric power. But neither of these tax increases is apparently enough to pay for Swedish defence, but a further further tax increase is needed. Do you ever get enough, Mikael Damberg, from taking household money? Can't you try one of the public spending instead?
i-R5eNbYjkUiEJneuEcdyVaa	Madam President, I would like Speaking of just filling your speech with rhetoric and figures... It is only to be noted that when the Moderates ruled Sweden last, the tax was reduced by 140 billion. It went out on the defense. Apparently, the Moderates could not find any money in the public budget that led to even keeping the defence expenditure we had in Sweden. The military service was abolished and the defence was reduced while the tax was reduced. In real life, when you take responsibility for Sweden, you have to ensure that expenditure and the money that comes in balance. If you don't, you'll have budget deficits. Then you get a higher public debt, and then you get big financial problems. Sweden has a low public debt. We have strong public finances, but we do not have strong public finances. When we take on new expenditure, we also need to discuss how it is to be financed. It is clear that the Moderates no longer really have that governmental capacity after the years of opposition. You pretend: This is nothing – you don't have to think about this much, but it'll work out! But it's not that simple in real life. Those with a household budget at home know that when expenditure increases, you have to somehow increase revenue or cut something. And if you're going to cut back on something, you have to tell me what it is. Just take the example of the households now affected by higher inflation due to Russia's war. We have households that are going to have a very difficult time now. It is the poorest families with children and the poorest pensioners who find it even more difficult to get monthly income to last the whole month, for example when you need to buy food, which is now becoming more expensive as food prices rise. We have tabled a proposal which will mean that the poorest pensioners receive quite a lot more money in their wallets every month. Will the Moderates agree to this so that the poorest households will not be the ones to bear the increased expenditure in various areas? This is a classic conflict between the Moderates and the Social Democrats historically. It's always been like that. You are most willing to lower the tax for those who have high incomes, and we stand up for the ordinary households who have low incomes. Now we have a proposal that improves for the most deprived pensioners. I hope I'm wrong, because the Moderates don't want to tell me much about how this is going to be financed. However, my great suspicion is that the first point of saving you will put forward to finance the defence is to make it worse for the most deprived pensioners so that they do not get the improvement they need in this situation with higher food prices and higher inflation. I would be delighted if Niklas Wykman could say today: we support the guarantee supplement, which makes Sweden's poorest pensioners better off in this tough situation! Otherwise the reasoning becomes a little hollow if you start by saving those who have the most difficult in society.
i-Lp36KGgsXEKx69wqZnBk4q	Madam President, I would like What worries when Mikael Damberg speaks is that it may not only be rhetoric but that Mikael Damberg may believe what he says. Mikael Damberg has very little experience and knowledge of the economy, and he may not understand the reforms he reviews. The job tax deduction reduced the tax most for LO groups and not for the richest. In recent budgets, the Moderates have always had more for pensioners with the lowest pensions than the Social Democrats have presented. Mikael Damberg is trapped in an SSU-lingo that he has learned at Bommersvik. But Mikael Damberg needs to learn about the Swedish economy and Swedish economic history of how companies and market economies function, because it's not exactly what he learned at that SSU course. The Social Democrats have announced a series of new tax increases. In addition to the emergency tax, it has announced mileage taxes for trucks, one-off taxes and taxes on clothing and shoes. There has been talk of reinvigorated wealth tax and reduced interest rates, increased tax on ISK savings and new restrictions on the box draw, increased tax on capital and increased tax on few-person companies. It never ends in the Social Democratic tax-raiser bingo. But, Mikael Damberg, it's not just the state that's having a hard time getting its economy together. Swedish households have that too. Just because Mikael Damberg finds it tough and difficult to reduce expenditure in the state, such as aid and high-speed trains, does not mean that there are several thousands to collect from Swedish households. They say no to Mikael Damberg's new property tax, or whatever the emergency tax is. Damberg-expensive, some say. Families with children will soon find that Mikael Damberg's new taxes will make it Greta Gris-expensive to be Swedish.
i-14JoMVLhZ8qfkm9R6maCwH	Madam President, I would like It is precisely because ordinary households and people on low incomes should not have to pay for the new savings of Moderates that I think it is important to discuss the financing of defence expansion. We have shown that it was possible to expand the defence forcefully, by 85%, during this defence decision-making period. We did so partly by financing it with a risk tax, a tax on banks, to ensure that the funding was sustainable over time. Now we are facing an even greater expansion of the defence. Then it is reasonable to discuss: How is this to be financed? What conditions should apply? In many countries where it has been said that they are now going to increase their defence spending, they are moving towards deficit targets in public finances. I don't want to do it. I want to move towards a balance goal. But if you're not serious about these issues, it's other expenses that should be pushed away. Niklas Wykman is clinically clear that he does not want to respond to what the Moderates think about improving for the most deprived pensioners. I can therefore only conclude, Madam President, that the first saving and financing of the expansion of defence – on which we agree – are apparently borne by the poorest pensioners in Moderate Sweden. I find it very unfortunate.
i-LUVYTuz58rJfmDGLLGLBYK	Madam President, I would like Maria Ferm has asked me if it is my line and that of the government to abolish the right to live in their own homes. Maria Ferm has also asked me if I and the government will change the regulations regarding their own accommodation, which means that you get rid of your daily allowance if you arrange accommodation with relatives and friends in special districts. The Government is now taking urgent measures to facilitate reception and to enable the Migration Agency to provide accommodation for persons seeking protection in Sweden fleeing Ukraine. The Government has also allocated SEK 30 million to civil society for humanitarian operations such as the provision of temporary shelter over the head. The government intends to return with further measures in the spring economic bill. People who come to Sweden from Ukraine, for example, have the opportunity to arrange accommodation on their own, so called EBO. It is true that the government's line is to eventually phase out the possibility of living in one's own home while maintaining daily allowance. The Government has therefore decided on an additional directive for the investigation An organised initial reception of asylum seekers, which includes the investigator proposing measures in the form of sanctions and incentives for people to choose to live in the Migration Agency's accommodations throughout the asylum period. Dismantling EBO remains an important reform to reduce segregation problems and improve the conditions for integration. Although we are now facing a refugee crisis, we need to think long-term and prepare for the future system. The additional directives mean that the government will be given a preparation basis to be able to phase out EBO in the future once the situation has stabilised and it is deemed appropriate. It is also part of the investigator's task to analyse whether exceptions are needed in specific situations.
i-Ru2ZkrfcEwi4fYCPy94B5J	Madam President, I would like I thank Anders Ygeman for his reply. Over 4 million people are already fleeing Ukraine, and 10 million are internally displaced within its borders. Russia's invasion of Ukraine has already brought terrible human suffering. The attacks on children's hospitals and housing and mass killings of civilians are nothing more than barbarism. All those responsible must be held accountable for these suspected serious war crimes. These are despicable scenes that have been set and continue to take place in Ukraine. We need to continue to support the country in Sweden and in the EU. We also need to stop fattening Putin's financing of the war. All imports of Russian oil and gas need to be stopped immediately, just as President Zelenskyj urged Sweden to do in this House a few weeks ago. Thus, in the wake of the war, millions of people are forced to flee. The vast majority flee to neighbouring countries, as it usually is when wars break out and people hope to be able to return soon. Some have also made it to Sweden. It is important that Sweden and all the other Member States of the European Union should help each other with the reception of refugees when so many have now been forced to leave everything they have and leave. Many who come to Sweden have family and friends here. Approximately 70 per cent do not live in the Finnish Immigration Service's quickly procured residential housing, but in so-called own housing, which often means that they simply live at home with someone they know or someone who wants to help them. This is something the Migration Agency has asked for, for example, because it is difficult in terms of capacity to do it otherwise. It is also quite obvious that it is a safer place, at least right at the beginning, than being bused to some facility housing in some place you do not know. Many in Sweden have already got a new classmate or neighbor from Ukraine. I am extremely grateful to all those who have opened their homes and who in various ways help with reception, not least because refugees from Ukraine have fewer rights than other refugees with residence permits. At the same time, the Social Democrats have long tried to tighten up the possibility of their own housing. The government has changed the regulations so that those who move into certain vulnerable districts lose their daily allowance. The Green Party has been and is critical of this and does not see that it will lead to anything other than that new arrivals become even more poor and have more difficulty in coping. Previous reforms to encourage people not to organise their own housing have only led to more poverty, not to fewer people choosing their own housing. That is exactly what we are seeing now also for families from Ukraine who move in with relatives who happen to live at the wrong address. They simply get rid of the small compensation they are entitled to. The Social Democratic Government also announced in January that it wants to phase out the right to its own housing and instead force all refugees to live in civil housing. The move is particularly remarkable in view of Russia's war in Ukraine and the need for all available accommodation for Ukrainian refugees. It is likely that the government did not see that more refugees would again come to Sweden and thus had no preparedness for this. Instead, proposals were made that would rather reduce preparedness at a time where many people need to flee at the same time. However, the question now arises as to whether the government has reconsidered in the light of the many who are now on the run in Europe. Even if the factual arguments regarding own living about fundamental rights or good integration do not bite, we are now in a situation where own accommodation clearly fulfils a very important function in the reception. It is also absurd that refugees from Ukraine who settle with relatives or friends in certain neighbourhoods should lose their daily allowance. Would it really be better if, in this situation, they were forced into the shelters of the Migration Agency, which are often very remote from the contacts that refugees already have?
i-TTRzje1PUwzNbtWKwgBNbJ	Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats and the Green Party have had and have good cooperation. However, I believe that this is one of the points on which we disagree. The future asylum reception that I see before me is that you come to Sweden and get your case tested quickly, and in the meantime you live in a reception centre. Those who are refused their application – today it is well 70 – 80 % – should return quickly, and those who are granted their application should quickly enter the establishment, out into a municipality and get their own permanent residence. We simply have to shrink the time at the beginning to get the most effective system. And in that system, I don't see a place for my own living. Then it is a matter of one month or two being on a residence under the direction of the Finnish Immigration Service. Unfortunately, we see how our own accommodation has contributed to the segregation of our largest cities. It is no secret that many of the local politicians in these cities have been begging for the government to abolish EBO. That is why it is also our line that we should do this. But we are not doing it now, but we are doing it through an investigation and in a controlled way so that we first get these other things in place. Then one might ask: If we were to have a refugee crisis from this magnitude again, will we have to make exceptions for our own living? Yeah, maybe you'll have to do that. The investigation will have to answer that question.
i-FXhuLXeXRQLMEbK7HkbH7h	Madam President, I would like The truth is that the Social Democrats have been completely unprepared that many people would again flee to Sweden in a short time. They have not prioritised building a readiness or rigging systems for this to work better than it did in 2015. Then there were many things that fell. It was about the lack of solidarity between the EU Member States and the fact that country after country closed the borders and tried to foreclose themselves from the outside world, and also about bureaucratic obstacles in Sweden that put obstacles in the way of good reception. People got stuck in cities of arrival and were bused around to various camps. And premises could not be used to rigid rules shut the door for it. In the wake of 2015 the Social Democrats have played följa John with the Moderates, who have imitated the Swedish Democrats. Instead of standing up for humanism and increasing preparedness in society, most other parties have just focused on talking about how the asylum acquis will be narrower and how Sweden will become a less attractive country to go to. They have talked about volume targets and how the expulsions should increase, just as if you haven't seen before that people could have to flee here from war again. Apart from the lack of humanity, it is for me unimaginably short-sighted. Well, what S has been trying to build is a system where everyone who comes to Sweden will gather in the arrival centre or departure centre near the border. There you should be able to see who should be quickly rejected, and people should wait there before they can move on out to a municipality for establishment. S does not want people to be able to live with loved ones or choose where they want to live, but wants to force everyone into these facilities at the borders. You don't have to be very smart to understand that it won't work, especially in times like these when many people flee at the same time and people also have a lot of contacts that are established in society. The Minister for Migration himself pointed out that this could happen again. Of course, there are other aspects that make it bad to live away from the rest of society, but there is another five. This is, in any case, a typical example of how the Social Democrats are trying to build systems that seem to be able to work in practice but which do not start from how people actually are and what people actually do. It is also based on some idea that escape can be arranged, which is not the case. That's the opposite. Those fleeing from Ukraine today are now being extradited either to the Finnish Immigration Service's facilities or to living with family and friends. None of that is satisfactory. It may work for a short time, but unfortunately we must take heights because Russia's invasion of Ukraine is not a temporary parenthesis but a long-term one. People fleeing here must be able to get into society for real. Their lives must not be put on hold for years. The Green Party wants them to have the same rights as others who have fled and been granted a residence permit on grounds of protection. They must have the right to establishment, the right to SFI, the right to municipal placement so that we get an equal distribution in all Swedish municipalities and the full right to healthcare. All Swedish municipalities need to be helped together. Hopefully, many can return to their homeland if not for too long. However, should this not be the case, we as a society must prevent them from going through years of passivity, exclusion and poverty here.
i-DJ3m18c5dvAcFDAWHAtcgs	Madam President, I would like It is possible that escape cannot take place in an orderly manner. But a reception in Sweden can take place in an orderly manner. It stands for the government. Maria Ferm says that refugees should be allowed to choose where to live. That's fine, but only after they've been found to be refugees. This is where the dividing line goes. We want it to be examined quickly whether they have refugee status or not. If they do not have refugee status, they will return. If they have refugee status, they should receive integration efforts, enter Swedish society and choose where to live. What distinguishes us from you in the Green Party, Maria Ferm, is that you want them to choose where to live before it has been established that they have refugee status. And even if they have received a no on their asylum application, they should have the right to choose where to live. There are two points where our views differ. I look forward to hearing the results of the investigation.
i-8NCJsu2JpsyqTW6pvHhoQR	Madam President, I would like If it was only in terms of people's free will that we differ, but the fact is that in this situation we in the Green Party see that people who have been found to have protection reasons and have a residence permit in Sweden still do not get sufficient rights in the same way as others. People who are fleeing Ukraine today are not entitled to SFI. They do not have the right to start-up or start-up payments, but can live on the very low daily allowance. It can also be removed if they choose to live with loved ones in the wrong area of the city. There are many major problems right now for the group that are being forced to flee Ukraine. I understand that the Social Democrats want to do a few things on the margins, but they do not want to correct the fact that people should live in these facilities or be extradited to family and friends. But they should not be able to get out in a municipality and get a real start on life or for that matter get real education so that they can take jobs and get into the community, but they should be able to manage a bit best they can. I think this is a huge problem. I see a great risk that in the coming winter we will have mothers who cannot afford to buy winter clothes or winter shoes for their children if they are forced to live on the Migration Board's daily allowance year in and out. In addition, it could be that people who had been able to get into work could not do so because they neither get help with trauma care when they come here, start-up efforts so that they can find the right job or enough support to learn Swedish. There are things we need to deal with. We can't just hope it works out, because it won't. An orderly reception is required.
i-8x1ZoHqsuXkz7LFwHsBsNj	Madam President, I would like Well, it is the European Council that has decided that the mass refugee directive should be applied. And how it should be applied in Swedish legislation was voted on in the Swedish Parliament 20 years ago. As I understand it, the Green Party has voted for both the implementation of the mass refugee directive in Swedish law and for us to use the mass refugee directive and not asylum. If we had used asylum and if asylum had been granted, we would have followed the path that Maria Ferm is now expressing. Instead, we have chosen to grant everyone the right to temporary protection without trial until 3 March next year. Then you don't get registered, and these other things apply. Then it can be discussed what we should build on if this were to be more long-term than the European Council expresses. However, the legal basis decided by the Parliament and decided by the European Council is temporary protection and the rules resulting from it. We will do everything we can to ensure that the people who have fled from the atrocities of war will get to work and be well cared for in the Swedish local community and given the opportunity to return to a free Ukraine. I think that's what we all want.
i-5ZuT3eELXTyc4LfZsojwYM	Madam President, I would like Angelika Bengtsson has asked me what I will do to facilitate an elite career while studying, a so-called double career, and whether we will set up an investigation that will review the income system so that scholarships and sponsorship, for example, will become sickness benefit and pension foundation. Furthermore, Angelika Bengtsson has asked me what I will do to ensure that the right conditions are given from politics to sport so that we will have at least as many elite athletes as today. Let me begin by agreeing that we owe our popular movement sports to the successful athletes we have. It is voluntary commitment and a strong sports movement that gives the individual or team the opportunity to reach all the way. The ability to combine post-secondary studies with an elite initiative is made possible by, among other things, the sports movement's work with r ikssportsuniversities and e litsports-friendly universities. The current framework for sickness benefit-based income is not fully adapted to labour market conditions with a wide variety of forms of employment and assignments. The Government has therefore assigned a special investigator to review the regulatory framework. Finally, let me say that the regular state aid for sport amounts to almost SEK 2 billion annually, including support for activities that strengthen the international competitiveness of sportsmen and women. The government has also contributed SEK 4.275 billion in extra support to the entire sports movement during the pandemic, both in crisis support and in restarting support.
i-BU26yqqXuYwm1qmfGaSZ11	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, in recent years, the elite initiative in Sweden has not received much attention from politics. It is now evident in sport. Although we have left the Olympics and the Paralympic Games behind us with a record number of medals, and although today we have many elite athletes in the absolute world summit, we get reports that the future does not look as bright – hence my interpellation. I am convinced that all parties in this House want sport well. We want to see both outdoor athletes and elite athletes. We generally agree on the orientation and objectives of sport. We have no major conflicts with regard to sport, regardless of which party or ideology we belong to. For this reason, we should also agree that the alarm reports that we are now receiving from the Swedish Sports Federation are worrying. And we should do something about the negative trend we hear about, because we are at an early stage of the negative trend. Madam President, I would like Fewer and fewer people today choose to make an elite venture. It is becoming increasingly difficult to make a double career, i.e. to adapt the pace of study while making an elite career. Another reason is the deterioration of the industry. It is good that the government has set up an investigation that now reviews sponsorship and other income, so that it becomes sickness benefit and pension-based. During the pandemic, the artists' situation – they have a similar situation with scholarships – has been recognised. A similar solution should also be found in this sector. Sport policy objectives have not been updated for a very long time. Maybe it's time to do it. The Culture Committee carried out a follow-up, which can be seen as an evaluation of the policy objectives. It was presented in April 2017. But what has happened since then? On the occasion of this debate, I would like to put the following questions to Minister Ygeman: will Ygeman work and work towards a broad political dialogue to improve the conditions for athletes who choose to invest in their sport at the elite level? Sport policy objectives today say very vaguely and very broad about how to reach the top. Is the Government prepared to review those objectives?
i-N3MhSdftfk9AmPo2qw6AC9	Madam President, I would like Angelika Bengtsson asks me two questions, except for those that were asked in the interpellation. The answer to the first question is yes. On the second question, I would also say yes. But we must also be honest and say: It is probably not the sports policy objectives that determine whether Sweden will be successful or not, but it is hard work by a lot of association leaders and athletes out there that is behind Sweden's success. It is also about the opportunity to have good association support and to have good financial conditions for their sports. That is why we are shooting at 2 billion annually. That is why we have raised over SEK 4 billion during the pandemic in order to restart sport. It is after all so, even if we are to have elite efforts, that a large breadth is a prerequisite for getting a successful elite. Madam President, I would like We have a successful elite. As Angelika Bengtsson said, we have had the most successful Olympic Games ever. According to Greatest Sporting Nation, the annual ranking, Sweden is the third most successful sports nation in the world. Never before has Sweden been ranked as high as elite nation. Never before have we been so successful in the Olympic Games. Then, Madam President, I can think that it is a bit meagre that Angelika Bengtsson is talking about breaking a negative trend. It's the other way around, Angelika Bengtsson. We will continue the positive trend. Sweden is doing well. In fact, Sweden has never done so well. It is perhaps about time that even Swedish democrats could rejoice a little about Sweden's successes and not just find faults. Rejoice with Sweden, Angelika Bengtsson!
i-DPGMgm2Sxxj77BJ2WE5ejh	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I guess that's exactly what I'm doing. I am delighted that we have so many elite athletes at the absolute international peak. But I also get reports that we may not have that in a few years' time. That is why I think it is important to draw attention to a problem that exists in the industry. The industry points to a trend that goes in a different direction from the positive one. I want this interpellation debate so that we can continue to enjoy and cheer for gold medals and all other medals in major international championships. In the sport policy objectives, which currently govern sport, we can read the following sentence:- Support can also be given to activities that strengthen the international competitiveness of sportsmen and women. ..................................................... I take that as a rather vague sentence. I would like to see a greater commitment and a greater objective in the cultural policy objectives in terms of how to reach the international peak. And, as I said, the targets have not been updated in quite a few years. Maybe it's time for an update. The previous government chose to end the elite venture in 2012. The Centre for Sport Research has found that this initiative was an important resource addition for the many national teams of the sports movement. In particular, the effort was made for parasporters. In addition, the coordination of the overall support for parasports and Swedish elite sports was improved. Given how good the then elite initiative was and how positive it had, I would like to ask: Are we prepared to make a new elite effort to achieve equally good and high performance among our athletes? Today we see the impact of the bet made at that time. Since we do not have the same stake today, I fear that we will not have as many elite athletes at the absolute world summit in the future. They don't have the same conditions. This is precisely what we are hearing reports today from the industry – hence this interpellation debate.
i-DpJiuGh8xNyse3YQ12TrRz	Madam President, I would like We sit together with SOK, the Swedish Olympic Committee, and RF, the Swedish Sports Federation, and discuss their image of the elite initiative in 2035. I think it is important to say that we should be a part of it, but the most important thing we can do as politicians is to ensure that there are good conditions throughout the country to sport and to sport a bit up in our teens. Sweden is a small country with 10 million inhabitants. The key to Sweden becoming a successful sports nation is that as many of our young people as possible try out sports and try out several different sports – preferably several different branches. That is what makes it possible to invest in an elite sport career. If we do not have the good popular movement that we have and if there are no opportunities to try out sports in schools and associations, it does not matter how big an elite effort we have. In that case, those who would be the subject of those elite ventures would do quite different things instead. We will have good conditions for those who want to invest in an elite sports career in Sweden. We will have a good discussion with the Swedish Sports Federation and the Swedish Olympic Committee on how this is designed. But the most important political contribution we can make is to ensure that all the people who are working hard in our society and who are behind our huge successes have the best conditions. I can only thank them for the work they do. Without them, it would not have been possible to be the third highest ranked country in the world – a small, small country at the top of the north. And without them it would not have been possible to make our most successful Olympic games ever.
i-GY23vg25u6XbFPQBZsk45E	Madam President, I would like We share the view that sport at large is incredibly important. It is central to the sports movement that many of us have been part of, including me. But there too we see a worrying development, not least after the pandemic. Many children and young people have given up sports. Many leaders and trainers are no longer part of sport. They have left the sport and made up other fun things to do. It worries me. I am also a little concerned that the Minister for Sport seems to take this issue quite lightly. I find that boring. We see a worrying development, but he does not feel the same concern. We shall provide the right conditions for association life, and, just as I started my speech, we are generally agreed in politics on this. We generally agree that sport should be broad but that it should also be possible to make an elite career. I am convinced that, from politics, we can do more to provide better conditions for our athletes so that they can continue to play sports and so that sports clubs can bring back children and young people. I also look forward to cheering up Swedish championship medals in the future, but then politics must also show that we support them and give them the right conditions. Hopefully this is not the last thing we hear and see in the discussion about elite action, but the beginning of it. Given that next week it's non-stop, I'd like to end by wishing everyone a really nice Easter!
i-3gEQ7vHNip26AkPfQ2nttK	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, we seem to agree on the importance of outdoor sports, the importance of elite initiatives and the joy of Sweden's success. With that I wish the President and Angelika Bengtsson a happy Easter!
i-UQ3nBuxe61Lr2RX8YYb5QV	Madam President, I would like Ola Johansson has asked me what measures I and the government are prepared to take quickly to speed up and facilitate the licensing processes for lime mining in Slite or prepare Sweden for increased imports of cement from abroad. On 6 July 2021, the Land and Environmental Court of Appeal rejected Cementa AB's application for permission to continue limestone extraction in Slite on Gotland. The plant represents the production of limestone corresponding to approximately 70 per cent of Sweden's needs for cement production. I note that in the foreseeable future Sweden needs cement for, among other things, housing construction and infrastructure development. A drop in cement production in Slite can have major social consequences. Since the beginning of July, the Government Office has worked intensively to follow the issue and analyse the consequences that are expected to arise. The Government has ongoing contact with Cementa and the relevant industries on how the situation develops.
i-Pgq4uYXLFFjbPG16jw9TDg	Two government missions were left at the end of last year. One task involves carrying out an in-depth analysis and mapping of the demand for cement, the availability of limestone and cement, and the logistical conditions for imports. The second assignment for the mapping of existing testing and testing activities has been finalized by the Swedish Innovation Agency Vinnov a. The mission's conclusions show that there is a risk that the availability of testing and testing activities for cement and concrete will be a bottleneck, even without stopping at the Slite factory. This is due, among other things, to the development of environmental concrete that needs to be tested. The environmental assessment process is a priority. In recent years, the government has taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental permit process is modern and effective, while at the same time achieving a high level of environmental protection. Since autumn 2020, a study has been working with the aim of proposing horizontal changes in the environmental test to facilitate environmental and climate improvement investments and to achieve faster and simpler environmental testing processes while maintaining environmental protection. The report of the investigation shall be submitted by 31 May 2022 at the latest. In order to allow for a more efficient handling of cases and cases, additional funds were allocated to licensing authorities in the 2022 budget. In order to allow more efficient use of resources, the composition rules for land and environmental courts were also amended in 2021. The Government has commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the County Administrative Boards for 2022, in consultation with the Swedish National Courts Authority, to carry out a preliminary study with the aim of reviewing the conditions for developing an authority-wide guidance for the environmental permit assessment, in order to harmonise the application of the legislation and convey knowledge to both review authorities and operators. The County Administrative Boards have also been tasked with developing methods and forms of collaboration to promote an effective consultation process according to the Environmental Code, which can accelerate the climate change of the business community. In addition, the Government has decided on assignments to the county administrative boards and the National Courts Board to evaluate whether there are conditions to develop one or more digital services for one or more types of permit applications according to the Environmental Code, with the aim of making the process more efficient. Madam President, I would like There is a very intensive work going on from the government on environmental permit processes. We continue to monitor the development of Sweden's cement supply closely and do not exclude further measures.
i-6ycDtrMetCK7UBNXKtaHbU	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The imminent risk of cement deficiency is indeed serious for Sweden. My colleague, Ola Johansson, who is unable to participate in today's debate, has made this interpellation on the basis of a concern about missing and delayed infrastructure investments, not least in West Sweden, such as the West Link. As an ostgöte, I am equally concerned about possible delays in the construction of the Ostlink and other smaller but very important infrastructure projects in our county when and if a cement shortage stops the construction works. I think that everyone understands that there is a risk of serious consequences for the whole country and for the Swedish economy if the closure or closure of Cementa's plant in Slite sends storm waves across the country, into the economy, and at worst results in a serious material shortage on construction sites and in infrastructure projects. Madam President, I would like I am not only concerned about the economic and social consequences that follow if we have a stoppage in Slite. I am also concerned about the effects on the climate. Cementa is the world leader in the production of low-emission cement. By 2030 they have set out to have the world's first climate-neutral cement factory in Slite. I do not think that most people who listen to this interpellation debate understand what this means, but it is revolutionary. It is crucial for us in Sweden to achieve our climate targets, but it is also crucial for a large number of Swedish companies to be able to show that they are actually able to reduce their emissions. If the factory in Slite does not get a permit and cannot continue its operations but has to close, yes, then it looks as if we have cut Swedish emissions. Let's get them out of here. In practice, however, we are totally dependent on a much dirtier cement production, not least in China, where we do not have the same high environmental and climate requirements, nor do we have the same employment conditions or social sustainability requirements in production. In addition, in yet another area, we are increasing our strategic dependence on Chinese products. It is not wrong for us to deal with the countries of the world, but we should not put ourselves in a strategic dependence on countries like China. This is therefore not only bad for the economy; it is also bad for the climate, and I also think it has a negative effect on Swedish security. Now the government, with the time-limited state announced at the end of 2022, has gone in with what I would call a state equivalent to artificial respiration. The Government also presented a series of measures to make the permit process more manageable for the applicant. I think that's right. There is nothing wrong with the measures being taken. The big question is whether that's enough. Does this solve the basic problem and secure the possibilities for a renewed environmental permit in Slite? It is not that we can stand here and promise that you will get a given permit. However, we must be able to ensure that the possibility of obtaining the environmental permit exists, and when I sum up the measures listed by the Government, I would not dare to go out and promise the voters that we have secured the possibility of obtaining the type of environmental permit that is needed in order to continue production in the longer term. Does Karl-Petter-Petter Thorwaldsson mean that the government has done what is necessary, or does he think we are even closer to a full-scale cement crisis at the end of the year? How can we be sure this is actually going to work out? We make it easier to search, but here we have a basic problem that makes it impossible to allow environmental permits. I don't want to stand here and yell at the lawyers in the Mark and Environment Court. They're trying to do their job and follow the laws and rules we've set up. But we can see that practice has drifted in the wrong direction. Legal interpretations in the courts have become increasingly stricter and less flexible. It is not possible in the same way to weigh different benefits, for example between the environment and climate, the environment and Swedish jobs as well as other infrastructure projects. Does the Government think we can solve this, or are we facing a new cement crisis at the end of the year?
i-73pSUm6fYRqYcCAcnKnvEm	Madam President, I would like I thank Magnus Ek for further questions. The assessment made by the Government Office is that this is an extremely complex matter. It's hard to handle. It is only to be noted that, without the good cooperation between the Government Office and the Riksdag last year, the temporary solution would not have been in place. I can express my gratitude for the work of both the Government and the Riksdag last autumn for resolving this. A unanimous parliament has also put its finger on the need for a long-term solution. It was an important signal to the industry itself and to the specific case. It must be a lasting solution for cement production at the Cementa plant in Slite. 70 per cent of Swedish concrete comes from there. However, the government cannot go in and decide how a court should deal with a case, but the courts must comply with the law adopted by the Swedish Parliament. Our assessment is that, on the basis of the evidence available, the court took the decision it could last summer, and Cementa has now started an intensive work to find a way forward. I believe that I have attended some ten meetings on the future of Cementa in the months I have been Minister of Economic Affairs, and it is evident that everyone understands the seriousness of the situation. Cementa has presented a strategy to split its permit to two occasions. One is more short-lived in four years to be sure you can handle the long condition. It is related to what Magnus Ek mentioned in his post, namely to start separating carbon dioxide from cement production and be one of the first plants in the world to produce cement fossil-free, which would be fantastic and a guide for the rest of the world. When one has managed to get through its shorter permit in four years, one should examine the possibilities for long permits, as a prerequisite for the multi-billion-dollar investment Heidelberg Group must make in order to be able to separate carbon dioxide at the installation in Slite. In addition, the Government has held consultations with Norway to build more infrastructure together with Norway in order to be able to depress previous sources of natural gas. There is intensive work going on for the whole system. Last week, Sweden received two support from the EU in order to move forward. One of them is about carbon storage at our district heating plant in Stockholm. It is also part of the Cementa system and the situation in Slite. Today, the situation is solved partly by having raised enough stone to pass a period, partly through Nordkalk's deposits on Gotland and partly through imports from Estonia. 5 - 15% of the concrete produced today comes from sources other than the difficult one in Slite. There it is about the groundwater on Gotland. After running-in problems – it was difficult to bring other lime into the plant – the company feels that the process is improving, and the production can be secured as long as it is permitted to continue at Nordkalk and the local import. The answer I can give today is as follows: no, the question has not yet been resolved, but I believe that Mrs Cementa has taken a major step forward in terms of the state of affairs in the year that has passed. The last of these days is being prepared to submit the application for the four-year permit, which would secure cement production and concrete production in the coming years.
i-RfzCds3ikhTF4ZrKWzfLdf	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its extended response. I have no doubt that the Government understands the seriousness and that he is working to find solutions where politics is a part of it. We cannot solve this, and we cannot engage in alexander. That's not how it works in Swedish politics. But we know this. That's not how it works. Our role is to see that when investments and facilities that are important to the Swedish economy get stuck in court trials, we should be able to try to prepare in a drastic and effective way to do our job, namely to screw this up too, to change the legislation. It is no news that the Swedish Environmental Code and other legislation are not designed to deal with different conflicts of interest between different values that we think are important. This is one of the problems with legislation. It becomes particularly clear when new investments are made with steel production and fossil-free steel in northern Sweden. It becomes clear when investments are made in new water treatment plants and it clashes with EU legislation, and it becomes clear to Cementa in Slite. This is beyond the remit of Minister Thorwaldsson, but the Minister for Economic Affairs also has an extremely important role to play in trying to bring up the problems, bring them to the government and think about how we can move forward. It's refreshing honestly to be clear that you haven't made it. Now it's about once again – I was about to say magic with my knees, it might be hard – trying to sort out a situation temporarily. It wouldn't have to be like this in the best of all worlds. It would not have to be the case that we need to sew together temporary solutions and divide permit processes. This is not where the Swedish permit granting should be. It should be predictable and allow space to get in place important investments for the Swedish economy, for the environment and for the climate. We're not there today. Let's get back to the case. We could have been in a different situation. When the alliance government lost the 2014 elections, one of the things we said we were going to do during the 2014– 2018 term was just to review the environmental code to introduce a green track, which hopefully is on the way with the investigation that will be submitting its final report in May. There, however, we have unfortunately seen a meekness from the S-MP governments and from the Social Democrats over the years. I think it is good that we are now beginning to move forward, but that I am standing here in the interpellation debate is about keeping up the pressure on the government and the Social Democrats. It cannot be that we put the question in any length of benches. Here we need to move forward. I hope that the study that will leave its final report at the end of May will give us a green trail. However, we know that we will not be able to implement any legislative changes before the end of the year. The choice comes between us. We don't know how long government formation will take-- hopefully smoother than last time, but nobody knows that. It is the voters who decide in September. With this in mind, how can we work on? What does the Government think we can do more today? We have noted that we cannot be sure that this is enough. We hope that this means that for a few more years we can temporarily allow for cement production in Slite. I also note what the Government says about the possibility of increasing imports. It may be something that will be absolutely crucial, but it is an absolute second position. It is not the optimal situation to cover up with imports. Can the Minister say what the government wants to do more if you have renewed confidence in the next term of office to improve the situation?
i-J5ssqYJd9LirYLXaGKHPP5	Madam President, I would like The broader issue of environmental testing and the laws that need to be amended to include climate benefits, for example, in an overall environmental assessment will come in May. With the pressure on Sweden today to make a green transition faster than any other country in the world, it would have been desirable for the legislation to have been in place earlier. But now the situation is as it is, and then we must speed up as much as we can. The study was set up in 2020 and will present its final report at the end of May this year. It is simply a question of taking more issues into account in environmental testing. For example, it is about climate benefits and societal benefits. It is also an important part, not least for Cementa in the future, of building infrastructure and ensuring that we can secure cement and concrete production in the long term. I think that Cementa's strategy of doing so in two rounds is because they are simply concerned about what the environmental test itself is about. Here you have to be careful, Magnus Ek. Even if we change the environmental code to bring in climate benefits and social benefits, we must never forget what the debate is about, namely about Gotland's groundwater. It is clear that there must be a rock hard environmental test in the case. The Environmental Court said last summer that Cementa has not been able to show that the large operation on Gotland does not affect the groundwater on Gotland. Of course, this must also be reflected in a balance of this kind. It cannot be said that we can adopt rules and laws in Parliament that would jeopardise the citizens' access to drinking water. I don't think that Parliament's majority wants to decide on this in the same way as it did with the temporary permit last year. I believe that Cementa's strategy is based on obtaining a permit for the activities that are being carried out today but during the period up to the long permit can make a proper investigation and guidance for the future so that it does not affect groundwater on Gotland. After all, that is what environmental testing is all about. We have the same kind of problems with environmental legislation. The environmental code has, however, served Sweden very well. It came in 1997, and my assessment is that the environmental code is one of the prerequisites that Swedish companies today take precedence over other countries in the world. It is a very hard environmental test, but it has also made Swedish companies ready for hard environmental testing. And the trend has partly been the opposite – today companies are running faster than the environmental code. The environmental code is, unfortunately, an obstacle to further speeding up climate change and making things better in companies. My hope, of course, is that the government can write a bill quickly and that we will find a good starting point in the investigation so that we can get back to Parliament as soon as possible and adopt legislation where you can take in the assessment of climate benefits and societal benefits in a combined environmental review – but, to be very clear, do not blur on the environmental assessment. It must be the world's hardest, because that is what makes businesses so far ahead. It's a balance. It's supposed to be effective. As I said in my initial reply, we have four or five more jobs to make this better and more predictable for companies. It's kind of messy to get a permit today. Many companies are reluctant to seek a new permit. They'd rather work with the old, more release, than with a new one because they're afraid they won't get to keep doing what they're doing today. We must, of course, correct this.
i-86AiGnGCRS4WLFQVpWb7hz	Madam President, I would like The last thing there is one of the big points with the green tracks – not to get caught in the old state. This isn't a new situation either, but we've known for a long time that you're still here. We have an environmental code that should be the hardest in the world but which, at the same time, hinders this kind of improvement. That's the problem, isn't it? When you wrote it, around when I was born, you didn't really think we'd get better all the time. We will be more sustainable. It is in this direction that not only politics but also companies want to go. It is extremely gratifying that we are in that situation now. We weren't there when I started politics a decade ago. However, as the Government says, it is in many ways companies that are running this, and then we cannot have an environmental code that would protect the environment but has moved towards being, in some parts, not environmental, but vice versa. I guess there's one thing we're supposed to take with us as politicians. What we would like is environmental legislation that is actually environmental governance, which constantly pushes us in the better direction and is not just defensive or static. Society isn't static. Environmental work is not static. Climate work absolutely cannot afford to be static, not if we are to cope with the pressure that exists on us through international agreements that we have entered into and not if we are to be able to seize the opportunity to be the best in the world and world leader – which, among other things, is Cementa in cement and concrete production. This is what will create Swedish jobs and continue to build the Swedish economy strong. It is innovation, but it is also a Swedish production that is best in the world in terms of the environment and climate. There's a piece left. I do not think anyone needs to be concerned that I or – hopefully – anyone else in this House wants to ruin the drinking water of the Gotlanders. The problem is that lawyers have to sit and balance. When the legislation does not allow for that balance, you get caught up in what may be a manageable risk, or you end up in a situation where it is impossible to prove that you actually get over this. That is exactly what needs to be done, and I will continue to pursue the Government in order for us to achieve this.
i-D8CtYSkCH7NNvn7GSu9M1B	Madam President, I would like Really as far as Magnus Ek goes here about environmental testing, I'm not prepared to go. We know that there have been problems with groundwater issues on Gotland. It should be a hard test to be careful about the groundwater on Gotland. We already have problems with sufficient water on Gotland today, so I think that the environmental court makes the right assessment. Cementa, the company applying for a permit, must be able to show that the activities carried out on Gotland do not affect drinking water for the Gotlanders. Otherwise, Madam President, I agree with Magnus Ek. I also think it is an incredibly funny development that customers' demands for fossil-free products make companies today more money on the converted product than they did on their previous product. This has also become a way for Sweden to increase employment. Only a few years ago there was a lot of talk in this House about how many jobs would disappear because of all the demands for us to become the world's first fossil-free welfare nation. Today we are talking more about how many jobs this creates. It also provides lots of jobs in locations in Sweden where it has previously been difficult to create jobs, so the whole situation is win-win. There have been many visits to Västerbotten and Norrbotten in the past month. The self-image has changed in two counties that we previously had crisis packages for every two years. Today Västerbotten has Sweden's lowest unemployment rate and Norrbotten Sweden's second lowest unemployment rate. It is the upside-down world that this green industrial transition has led to. And of course, Magnus Ek, we will make sure that environmental legislation is adapted to this new period.
i-Vnhcgi12cudf53131gTpgj	Madam President, I would like Jonas Andersson has asked me what proposals I intend to present to the Riksdag to ensure that Islamic actors and similar social dangerous forces are stopped from receiving state subsidies intended for civil society. He has also asked me how I intend to deal with the problem of Islamist actors and similar social dangerous forces currently strengthening and advancing their positions by receiving contributions intended for civil society from municipalities and regions in Sweden. First of all, our tax money should not go to violent extremism or other anti-democratic movements. The Government plans to submit a bill to the Riksdag prior to the elections, presenting new democracy conditions for support to the religions and other civil society. It is important to have clear, legally secure and uniform democracy conditions on the ground. We need to ensure that authorities and organisations that allocate support to civil society have well-functioning tools to prevent funds going to activities that are not compatible with the fundamental values of society. D firstly, to ensure that tax funds do not go to vehement extremism or other anti-democratic movements that want to divide our society or that they are channeled into organised crime. This is part of the government's work to reverse every stone in order to fight crime one. It is in the interest of both public and civil society to safeguard the legitimacy of benefit systems, including through legally secure grant management. If an organisation carries out an activity that is contrary to the fundamental values of society or if it otherwise misuses the trust it has been given, public funds shall not go to the organisation. That is why the government lays down conditions for aid. A free and independent civil society with a diversity of organisations, activities and voices is a prerequisite for a well-functioning democracy. That is why the government supports civil society. Of that support, each chandelier shall go to those who maintain democracy. Municipal self-government means that municipalities and regions themselves choose what their contribution should be. In the government's view, however, there are good reasons also for municipalities and regions to make use of democratic conditions in the grant. Whether the government intends to further support municipalities and regions in their work on democracy conditions is something that I will have to return to after the bill has been discussed in the Riksdag and we have new conditions on the ground. However, the support material already exists Democracy conditions for contributions to civil society – Guidance for Administrators (SOU 2019:35), which the Democracy Condition Investigation has developed as part of its investigation work. The guide can be used by municipalities as well as regions.
i-HiNSgJYV8GLsud3JnU6yeA	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for Culture for the answer to the interpellation. This is a very topical subject that we are debating here today. Public contributions to Islamic actors and other socially dangerous forces have gained an increasing media focus in recent years. The situation in Sweden is now that organisations with links to Islamism and other social dangerous forces have been able to stop pockets full of taxpayers' money. One example that has been very mediated is the state-granted study association Ibn Rushd, which I mention in my interpellation. A number of recognized researchers have been able to demonstrate Ibn Rushd's connection to the Islamic network Muslim Brotherhood and other Islamism aimed at creating a kind of Islamic parallel society. The connections with the Brotherhood are not only at a formal, statutory level but also seen to which one invites and in different ways provides a platform in the organization. Other social debaters and some political parties have also raised the problem of contributions to Islamism and the like for years, in the media and elsewhere in the social debate. Here in Parliament, it is not least the Swedish Democrats who have pushed for us to put an end to this. It should be a matter of course that a business like this should not have our tax money. But with the Social Democrats in the government, Ibn Rushd has been able to usurp tens of millions of dollars a year in state grants. Over the almost eight years the Social Democrats have been in government, it is about hundreds of millions of dollars. The Social Democrats have thus fueled the emergence of the parallel societies that this type of organisation wants to build. Madam President, I would like Around Sweden, more and more municipalities are choosing to stop the study association Ibn Rushd from taking part in taxpayers' money. The City of Gothenburg has stopped the grants, as has the municipality of Eskilstuna. In Linköping municipality, where I live, the council only decided in January to freeze the grants. This happened after the Swedish Democrats pushed and put forward a motion on this. The difference between the Social Democrats and the Swedish Democrats on this issue is that you are making contributions to the Islamists, and we are stopping the contributions. Speaking of the City of Gothenburg, Ibn Rushd has appealed against the municipality's decision from February to withdraw the grants. They want to take the municipality to the administrative court on the matter. The government's failure to put its foot down is a major problem for the municipalities, because they are now allowed to spend resources fighting for grants to organisations that should not be able to receive grants from the outset – it should not be on the map. The desire to put an end to the roll of subsidies is in many places out in the municipalities. But the government's passivity makes it difficult for the municipalities and makes the issue of contributions to Islamist-linked and similar organisations a permanent circus and sequel in the media, council assemblies and so on. Responsible governments do not leave the municipalities in the lurch and let them take the fight on their own against this type of organisation, which challenges everything our country stands for. I think it's a very cowardly act by the government. If you put your foot down nationally on the issue, with strong democratic conditions and other measures, the municipalities will be able to relate to this and have better tools to deal with it. I wonder and would like to ask the Minister for Culture: why has the government left the municipalities in the lurch so that they themselves can fight against this type of Islamist-linked organisations, rather than come up with a solution nationally? And why have the Social Democrats not been able to deliver a solution after having been in government for almost eight years? Then we could have avoided this circus.
i-FzAh8FH6Tz9pNG8RqWgmj9	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to make it clear to Jonas Andersson that our tax money should not go to violent extremism or other anti-democratic movements. As Jonas Andersson knows, since he sits as a member of the Committee on Culture, he is given support to civil society, and that support should be given to those who maintain democracy. However, I must start by saying that it is a bit strange to debate against a Swedish democrat about support to go to those who maintain democracy, because of the historical background of the Swedish democrats, which cannot be associated with democracy. This is particularly strange given that the party leader of the Swedish Democrats has often not wanted to choose between a democratically elected president and a non-democratic president. I am thinking of 2018, when the choice was between Macron and Putin, and now in February, when the choice was between Biden and Putin. Enough about that! As regards support for Ibn Rushd, I would first of all like to say that the government should not have views on decisions made by an individual municipality, in this case the City of Gothenburg, within its area of competence. I note that the decision of the Gothenburg Social Welfare Board to refuse Ibn Rushd's contribution has been appealed to the Administrative Court by Ibn Rushd. I welcome the fact that the issue is being examined in court. It is the Folkbildningsrådet, not the government, that makes decisions on which study associations can take part in the state's support for peoples' education. It is also the Folkbildningsrådet that monitors and evaluates the activities for which the state grant has been submitted. The Folkbildningsrådet also has the possibility to recover state aid if, for example, it has been wrongly granted or if the funds have been used for purposes other than those for which they have been granted. Secondly, in the case of aid to municipalities and regions, the government cannot and should not govern the grant of municipalities and regions. The municipal autonomy, which I think Jonas Andersson supports, means that municipalities and regions themselves choose what their contribution should be. The government, however, can offer support in this work. Already today, there is a guide for administrators that the Democracy Condition Investigation has developed as part of its investigation work. The guide can be used by municipalities as well as regions. The way in which the government can support municipalities and regions in their work on democracy conditions is something that I will return to after the bill has been discussed in the Riksdag, where Jonas Andersson sits, when we have new conditions in place.
i-68nNnLaX6uz3wBbQoTNqgZ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Culture, for the answer, I'll start by saying. It was interesting to see how the minister changes the subject and very much shifts the focus when she starts talking about Putin and the like. It was because Stefan Löfven, who was the party chairman of the Minister's Party Social Democrats, got this question before the elections 2018. Then he could not choose between Donald Trump and Vladimir Putin either. That was the point – I think it was very interesting in this context. I was going to dwell a little on what the Minister of Culture initially said in his response to the interpellation. I reacted to quite a lot there. Among other things, they say that every tax chandelier should go to those who maintain democracy. Those are beautiful words. But what is the reality? Does every chandelier go to those who uphold democracy, with this government's civil society policy? No, no, no. It is as far from reality as you can get, and I think that a lot of people in this country see this very clearly. Today, organisations such as the Islamist-linked study association Ibn Rushd receive tens of millions of SEK a year in state grants. How does this rhyme with the Minister for Culture's own words that every crown of tax should go to those who uphold democracy? In his response to the interpellation, the Minister also mentions that municipalities and regions should choose their own contribution. To answer the question of municipal self-government, I naturally think that it is a very important part of Swedish democracy and something that we should basically protect. Then the reality is that Säpo, among other things in its consultation on Democracy Conditions for contributions to civil society, SOU 2019:35, has stated that not only the state but also municipalities are distributing support to organisations with links to extremist environments and that this contributes to increased radicalisation and the growth of violent environments. It is not difficult to imagine that many of the municipalities that contribute to radicalisation and the growth of violent environments have social democratic governance in view of the predicament that seems to exist in the minister's party to distribute that kind of contribution. Madam President, I would like Should it be optional for municipalities to contribute to organisations that have been confirmed to contribute to increased radicalisation and the growth of violent environments in Sweden? I do not think so, but it seems that the Minister for Culture is making a different assessment on this issue. If a state-level organisation has been deemed to contribute to radicalisation, violent extremism and the like that can be considered a security problem for our country, it is hardly reasonable for it to continue to receive public funding locally. It is an issue that goes beyond civil society policy and, in the long run, can be a matter of national security, if it wants to harm itself. When the Social Democrats rule, they are happy to engage in municipal self-government. After all, you have forced the municipalities to accept migrants, for example through the residence law and in other ways, after you have pursued an extremely irresponsible migration policy yourself. This has caused enormous social and economic problems for our country. You are also in the process of embarking on municipal self-government in order to push forward the expansion of wind power, something that many certainly do not want in the municipalities. Then it's all right to do that. I would therefore like to put a question to the Minister for Culture: why is it that we blame local self-government as a reason why it would not be possible to stop these contributions to Islamists and similar socially dangerous forces in municipalities and regions when we are happy to restrict local self-government when it comes to immigration or wind power?
i-YZJs6fYy4e6MCXYK3a2fy3	Madam President, I would like Yes, Jonas Andersson, talk about mixing the cards away! Suddenly, the settlement law and wind power came into the law. I mentioned that the party leader of the Swedish Democrats had difficulty choosing between Biden and Putin as late as February. But I can promise Jonas Andersson that we are working towards equalization between the municipalities, even when it comes to the issues he has raised. Once again, I would like to make it clear that it is in the interests of both public and civil society to safeguard the legitimacy of benefit systems. A free and independent civil society with a diversity of organisations, activities and voices is a prerequisite for a well-functioning democracy. That's why the government supports civil society. For the government, democracy, freedom of expression and other issues are extremely important. To say that organisations are stopping pockets full of money is almost rude to those youth organisations and others who are receiving these subsidies, which are extremely important for our democracy in the future. I would like to point out once again that the government cannot and will not govern the funding of municipalities and regions. Municipal self-government, which is extremely important, means that municipalities and regions themselves choose what their contribution should be. Once again, with regard to support for Ibn Rushd, I very much welcome the fact that this is being tried in court. I will, of course, follow it with great interest. In conclusion, I would like to mention that the government offers support in the work on how to allocate aid, including in municipalities and regions. But municipal self-government is a matter of course for me.
i-KP8ES3mChszschwBZdEstm	Madam President, I would like Unlike the minister, I'm not mixing the cards here. In fact, local self-government is an important part of the debate that we have here today, I think. A crucial issue for the legitimacy of Swedish civil society policy is that contributions from state, municipalities and regions should not go to various social dangerous forces. That is why I think this debate is important. The study association Ibn Rushd was mentioned here earlier. For example, the same network of organisations as the Student Union also includes the Stockholm Mosque. I noted that the minister visited that mosque the other week. The mosque has highlighted this in social media. The Minister did this in the framework of his mission as Minister of State, I suppose. This is, of course, a mosque that is actually part of the same networks and organisations and similar things as Ibn Rushd. Among other things, reports have been ordered by Swedish authorities such as MSB, where it is concluded that the mosque has a connection with the Muslim Brotherhood. Representatives of the mosque have also spoken about this link in the Swedish media themselves. The very kind of Islamist-linked organisations and religious communities that democratic conditions in the grant should stop receiving grants are, therefore, ministers now out to meet. I see a risk that the bill that will come and that many have high expectations of will be ineffective and that different organisations with these kinds of links will rather be legitimised by the government's proposals. It could be so-called whitewashing. How does the Minister of Culture mean that the government will succeed in the new conditions of democracy when it simultaneously interacts with, legitimises and meets the very Islamic forces that all serious democrats in terms of funding should stop?
i-8mMTBk87ynhpjPfKD4hT1i	Madam President, I would like As Jonas Andersson knows, since he is a member of the Committee on Culture, the Minister for Culture is responsible for the religions of Sweden. That is why I have had meetings with the Church of Sweden and the Jewish Central Council and the religious community. Therefore, it was natural for me to visit one of our large Muslim congregations in Stockholm. The Stockholm mosque belongs to the state-subsidised religion Fifs. Fifs, as well as all religious communities that receive government subsidies, should follow the rules that exist. As far as I know, the government has not received any signals that Fifs is acting in breach of the regulations. The government has made it clear that we will turn every stone to fight crime. Tax money shall be used for what it is intended for. I would also like to make that clear. No funds should go to violent extremists or anti-democratic movements. That is why it is important to have legally secure and well-functioning democracy conditions in place. In this important discussion, it is easy to forget that the vast majority of the organisations receiving support keep democracy alive by their commitment and by being a democracy school that strengthens our society. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to emphasise that the involvement of civil society is something that we should be wise enough to appreciate and not take for granted. Every day, meaningful activities are created for children, young people and all of us. People are involved and involved. I look forward to continuing this important debate when the bill comes to Parliament. As it is now Friday for Easter week, I would like to take this opportunity to wish the President a very happy Easter, and also to Jonas Andersson and others who are in the Chamber.
