i-QGHL6mHqyz7H2xwY1fx18Y	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the proposal to be approved in the report by the Committee on Taxation, Public Health and Consumer Protection, Sku22, to increase the turnover limit for exemption from VAT. The report states that the committee supports the Government's proposal for an increased turnover limit for VAT exemption, i.e. VAT. The proposal increases the turnover limit from today's 30 000 to 80 000 SEK per tax year. The increase means that companies with a turnover of up to SEK 80 000 no longer need to be registered for or declare VAT. The proposal, which introduces amendments to the VAT Act, aims to simplify the situation for small businesses and other small operators. The amendment is proposed to enter into force on 1 July 2022. Mr President, I would like to It is important that companies compete on equal terms. VAT should therefore be taken as a starting point regardless of the size of a company and not affect companies in different ways. However, for companies with very low turnover, the administration of VAT is a considerable workload in relation to turnover. In a number of contexts, the government has stressed the need to simplify matters for the smallest companies. One way to do this is to give more opportunities to be exempt from VAT. The proposed increase in the turnover limit will therefore simplify for even more smaller companies which therefore no longer need to be registered for and declare VAT. In addition, the Tax Agency does not need to administer declarations and payments from those who use this option. An increased turnover limit may therefore mean simplification. At the same time, a greater increase could create negative effects, such as distortions of competition, and increase the risk of tax evasion. We believe that the government has struck a reasonable balance between the positive effects of reducing administrative costs on the one hand and the overall negative effects on the other. Mr President, I would like to The report contains two specific opinions, one from the Moderates and one from the Christian Democrats. In these opinions, the parties argue that the government's proposed increase in the turnover limit is too low, but that the proposal is nevertheless supported. Unlike the Moderates, the Christian Democrats have been honest that their position with an opinion rather than a reservation is due to the fact that it is the M-SD-KD budget that forms the basis of the level of increase. It would have been desirable for the Moderates to make the same point clearly in their opinion. Well, all the parties in the committee support the government's proposal and, therefore, the tax committee's proposal, which I once again call for.
i-Bi4vbMWMx6Bpvo5JyxmS7T	Mr President, I would like to Value added tax, or VAT, as we say in everyday language, is the second largest revenue the state has – 550 billion annually. It's not gonna get any smaller this year. With an inflation rate of 6%, VAT will become an even greater revenue for the state. Here in the Riksdag, issues about VAT are often about taking a position on exemptions and reductions in VAT on various services. The next item is just one. It's both bad and unfortunate. Policies often mix VAT with business costs. It will be wrong, because VAT is always government money. It is a tax on consumption that the state receives. The companies, on the other hand, administer VAT free of charge or without compensation. If you want companies to have lower costs for a product and service, it is the companies' other taxes to be reduced, not the VAT. In 1996, Göran Persson reduced the VAT on food from 25 per cent to 12 per cent in order for families with children to get lower food prices – a laudable attempt that was completely wrong. Prices went down by 2 - 3 per cent. The other 10 per cent ended up in other pockets, not with families with children. A well-functioning competition is the basis for the right pricing of goods and services. Now the government is proposing an increase in the floor to account for VAT on turnover from 30 000 to 80 000 per year for smaller companies. Mr President, I would like to This is a step in the right direction. However, it is far too little. The cut in the EU is 300 000. Sweden always wants to be the country in the EU that is the best in the class to comply with EU directives and proposals – but not in terms of conditions for small businesses. Reasonably, we should raise the limit to European level. This would also make it easier to start up new businesses. After all, for many who start their first company, women and perhaps younger people who have had a job and want to try their wings, it is complicated. It's not that simple. The first problem is when to register with the Swedish Companies Registration Office. It's not straightforward, I can tell you... and I've been running a business for 26 years, so I know what's going on. It must be easier to start up new businesses, and then the regulatory framework must be simplified. It also needs to be made more transparent with equal competition within the EU. If we want to get Sweden moving, lower taxes on labour are needed, not lower VAT. I refer to the specific opinion of the Moderates on this matter.
i-8QRNKUYK5yXZkVUNXCntdw	Mr President, I would like to Kjell Jansson says two things in his speech that I cannot really reconcile. On the one hand, he says that it is wrong to reduce VAT. On the other hand, he refers to an opinion in which it is felt that the reduction should be even greater. I was going to ask Kjell Jansson how he makes this argument go together.
i-8q7Jaoc1USg2kRgyTxDHUP	Mr President, I would like to After all, even if you are not liable for VAT, you will have to pay VAT on the goods, but you cannot regulate it with your income, so the state always receives its money. That's how clever the VAT is. So this does not mean a reduction for the state. It means less red tape for smaller companies to increase the VAT accounting limit.
i-V749K1kUTTKXTomQbAihkM	Mr President, I would like to I'm not quite sure Kjell Jansson understood my question. At least he didn't answer it. As I referred to in my speech, the Christian Democrats are talking about the reason why they have a specific opinion being that they really want a higher turnover limit. But since it is their budget that is the basis for this, they have renounced a reservation. The Moderates have not done so, and in his speech Kjell Jansson says, on the one hand, that you should raise and, on the other hand, that you should not reduce VAT. I still don't understand how he gets his reasoning together.
i-ESAWefG4Php2zJCJkJ43WQ	Mr President, I would like to Firstly, we have not reserved ourselves, but we have a specific opinion. Number two: m omsen get the state into the goods sold. This is about smaller companies not having to account for VAT – it goes directly in when you buy goods. On the other hand, the State loses its share of the service side of the company, but it is marginal. It's about getting new businesses started. The root of society is small businesses, not to charge high taxes. VAT should be fundamentally uniform. On the other hand, there may be exemptions for smaller companies when it comes to accounting for VAT.
i-8mPEXyvtQkNcv285gNRTz7	Mr President, I would like to We are discussing today an increased turnover limit for VAT exemption. The proposal raises the turnover limit for the exemption from 30 000 to 80 000. A further increase in the turnover limit would update notification procedures for goods and services under EU Directive 2015/1535. The reason for the limit of 80 000 annual turnover is that it is included in the 2006 EU VAT Directive, which allows countries to exempt companies under a certain turnover. The aim of exempting small businesses is to reduce the administrative costs of VAT. The advantage is greatest for companies working directly towards the final consumer. The companies exempt from VAT can reduce the price or, now that inflation is rising and all prices are rising, avoid increasing the price. The change also means that VAT paid by the company cannot be deducted. A taxable person exempt from tax may choose to apply the general VAT rules. This is often the case for start-ups and for companies selling to other companies that are not exempt from VAT. Mr President, I would like to The referral bodies have made their views known. The Economic Institute, FAR, LRF, the Federation of Small Enterprises and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise are doubtful about the proposal as they believe it would have been dealt with together with the report Microbusiness Account – flat-rate income taxation for the smallest companies, SOU 2021:55. If that had happened, the result might have been different. More needs to be done to allow small businesses to grow. Mr President, I would like to It is estimated that 80 000 companies meet the conditions. Nearly 80% of these companies are private, individual traders. Of these companies that can be exempt from VAT, 60 000 companies have to apply to be exempt from VAT. It is estimated that 20 000 new companies will receive automatic relief in the year the rules are introduced. Which sectors are the most favoured? Yes, it is agriculture, forestry and fisheries, which account for 27%. Number two is law, economics and science, with 18%. Finally, we support the Government's proposals and look forward to an evaluation. We see this proposal as a first step and look forward with anticipation to the next step.
i-AzYfv7GmXGsZ6rJoF5XFzJ	Mr President, I would like to This case involves raising the limit on which companies should be exempt from VAT. Today, VAT is exempt from VAT if you have a turnover of less than SEK 30 000 per year, but with the decision that we will take today, the limit is increased to SEK 80 000 per year. We Christian Democrats welcome and support this increase, which will simplify the regulatory framework for the smallest companies. This is a step in the right direction, but further steps will be needed along this road. It is worth noting that Sweden's turnover limit is low in relation to that of many other EU countries. Our turnover limit will be low even after the increase being made now. The average turnover limit in the EU is more than EUR 30 000, i.e. more than SEK 300 000. It is ten times higher than the limit that applies in Sweden today and almost four times higher than the limit that will apply from mid-year. This is the average limit, Mr President. There are 14 EU countries with turnover limits above average. There are 2 EU countries with no turnover limit at all, but of the other 25 with turnover limits, Sweden is the lowest. After the increase that we are deciding on here today, Sweden will be the second lowest. This means that the tax conditions in Sweden are worse than in many other EU countries. This means more trouble in Sweden than in many other EU countries for the smallest companies. This is detrimental to Sweden's competitiveness. We cannot have worse conditions for companies than other EU countries. Therefore, the step taken today must be followed by more steps so that the conditions for starting and running small businesses in Sweden are no worse than in other EU countries. We Christian Democrats today say yes to the committee's proposal, but we will work for this issue to be reviewed again in order to raise the VAT turnover limit further.
i-68Mx4Aiz4MERmL8yW5yiEh	Mr President, I would like to The Liberals also support the Government's proposal and welcome the changes proposed in the proposal for an increased turnover limit for VAT exemption. It removes a huge burden from small businesses when the financial and administrative burden is reduced. But I would like to emphasise that much more needs to be done in order for more people to have the courage to start a business and for existing companies to grow. Despite the changes now being made to raise the turnover limit from today's 30 000 to 80 000 SEK, Sweden will continue to have a significantly lower VAT exemption limit than most other EU countries, as pointed out by other Members. That is why we Liberals, as well as the Moderates, believe that there needs to be a review of how the turnover limit can be raised even further. Mr President, I would like to If Sweden is to be a competitive country and if our companies are to be able to compete on equal terms in the global market, we need to strengthen the Swedish business community considerably in the coming years in order to create greater attractiveness for entrepreneurship in Sweden. Today, many businesses, not least small businesses, face a very heavy administrative burden. It is therefore important to continue reducing the administrative burden. During this term of office, the Liberals have contributed to many important changes in order to strengthen not least the Swedish business community. We have extended the expert tax, and it has been done in a combination of reduced corporate tax with a new deduction for investments. We have extended the FOU deduction and reduced employers' contributions considerably, and many other things have been done. We believe that it is through a good business environment that new companies can be set up, existing companies can grow and large companies can become more competitive internationally. Mr President, I would like to More structural reforms are needed. Tax relief for companies and relief of administrative burdens are needed. There are three pieces of evidence that we liberals are working on. Much will also be done in the next parliamentary term. I would like to support the committee's proposal.
i-XWH2D9dfcDUKDZgoubAHB8	Mr President, I would like to What we are going to discuss here today is one thing that can be difficult for the smallest entrepreneurs, namely turnover tax and the obligation to account for it. We know it's not government agencies that create jobs in this country. It is people – people who have an idea, who choose to invest in it, who start a business and are passionate about the basic idea they have and to try to help others with what they are doing. In order for more people to dare to do this, it is of course incredibly important that we do everything in our power to make it easier for people to just take this step and dare to become entrepreneurs. It's about daring to apply for F-tax, although it may seem a little scary. It is not the task of the state to put obstacles in the way. Of course, the state should always try to treat all its citizens equally. There is a good idea that the same tax rules should apply regardless of who you are and which company you run. However, we cannot ignore the fact that many complicated rules place a disproportionate burden on the smallest companies. That is why the Center Party, like many others here, feels it is important that we raise the turnover limit, preferably even further. But it is not in our power to do this alone, but it is also a question of being a driving force at European level to change the regulatory framework. The Center Party therefore strongly supports the fact that we are raising the turnover limit today and continue to work to raise it even in the long term.
i-S1kddBCTndSeFZdzF3RmCL	Mr President, I would like to Yesterday, the Tax Committee visited one of its favorite authorities, namely the tax authorities. The tax authorities are of the utmost importance in ensuring that competition is not distorted. I understood that Hanna Wagenius said that public authorities do not create jobs, but they do at least create good competition by helping to get rid of businesses that do dirty money and do not stick to rules in terms of emissions, climate or the labour market. I just want a comment from Hanna Wagenius: do you need some authorities too?
i-WHtsJdUmPyajhieRPidewP	Mr President, I would like to Of course we need authorities! It is a matter of having a regulatory framework that works, which is clear to everyone and which ensures that those who compete on unsound terms have no opportunity to do so. I do not think that this proposal will mean that anyone will be able to compete to a greater extent on unfair terms, but it is about lifting a burden from the very smallest companies and making it a little easier to dare to take the first step for those who want to start a business.
i-2oFEem7vLGtjQ8ChwTfFFo	Mr President, I would like to As I said in my speech, that is precisely the assessment that the government has made. A reasonable balance has been found in the proposal between, on the one hand, reducing the problem and, on the other hand, not distorting competition. The Swedish Tax Agency is doing a fantastic job in ensuring that we get rid of unhealthy companies that compete on unreasonable terms in relation to the companies that are serious.
i-AB7uhvYT5FVsREczq2CNVd	Mr President, I would like to The IRS is doing a very important job there. The basis for their work is that we have sound and good legislation, established here in Parliament, so that they can enforce this. We agree on that.
i-84XudVyLXtVMT4mC48WV6W	Mr President, I would like to Some view private enterprise as a dangerous tiger to be shot, others consider it to be a cow for milking. Too few people realize it's the horse that pulls the load. The quote comes from Winston Churchill, one of my role models. Sweden has the world's fourth highest tax burden. The central government's total tax revenue is SEK 2,200 billion annually. Many of our residents pay up to 70 percent of their income in taxes, and many of them are in the Stockholm region, which is the engine in Sweden and accounts for about 45 percent of Sweden's GDP. The municipal tax is 30 per cent, if you do not live in Österåker, then you pay a little less. You pay 22% in government income tax if you earn above the cut-off point. In addition, there is VAT and all these excise duties. These are congestion taxes. It's treasure on everything! There's a tax on plastic bags on Ica. Treasures are huge! The state is the winner of successful people and people who work hard in the clocks and showers. Personally, I believe that the only tax on labour should be municipal tax and nothing more. Then we all have excise duties, so the state could at least finance its activities. Moreover, State income tax is only EUR 52 billion, which in this context is a very small part of the state's total budget. Every misused tax crown is a theft from the people, should the Social Democratic engineer Gustav Möller have said. Unfortunately, I believe that the Social Democrats have forgotten that thesis in today's policy. What gives the state legitimacy to levy such high taxes? That question should be asked by several of us. The answer is that since the 1950s Sweden has had a policy that has had an over-confidence that the state should manage things in society that can be made more efficient, better and of higher quality in the private sector. Above all, taxes on labour should be reduced. Mr President, I would like to Our great industrial legend Nicolin Nicolin said: The lower taxes the higher the growth. The wealth formation of individuals increases with lower taxes. People who risk money and build businesses must be rewarded more. Those were wise words of Nicolin Nicolin. It was in the 1970s he said this. Mr President, I would like to For decades, Parliament and government have built up an enormous state apparatus. Today we have 465 authorities with 230 000 employees. Many authorities are needed for Sweden to be a functioning country and a secure rule of law, such as the Swedish Tax Agency, which was mentioned here. However, let us be clear that all the authorities are costing money. They don't bring in a penny. They are the ones we finance with the taxes. Over the past eight years, the government has formed 50 new agencies and increased 46 taxes – this while several central authorities are underfunded and fail to perform their tasks satisfactorily. I am thinking, first and foremost, of the police and customs, who need reinforcements in order to carry out their mission and to face the current violence and the drug trafficking that is taking place through well-organised crime. In addition, several authorities pursue policies. Weak regulatory letters allow for that. Then I am thinking primarily of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Forest Agency, which annex private forests that have been managed for generations by families. The government does not rule its authorities in a legally secure way. Mr President, I would like to The export industry is an engine in the Swedish economy. 52% of bnp comes from the export industry. Corporate taxation is a large part of government revenue. Employers' contributions are 670 billion, the largest revenue for the state. Corporate tax is 135 billion. Self-charges for small companies that are not under company form are 13 billion. Special payroll tax is 55 billion. It is not accounted for; it disappears well into the black hole. That treasure is obscure. The provision for the pension scheme is 42 billion. One might then consider whether the special wage tax could be used to strengthen the Swedish pension system rather than going in with money alongside the pension system to strengthen pensions for some people and not the entire pension system. The sales tax when you sell your house or apartment is 22%– it is very high. This makes moving chains difficult. You could have worked your whole life. You could have had a family. A villa has been built, and you have saved money by amortizing your villa. It's like pension insurance. In the early years, children may have moved out and formed their own families. Maybe you want to move to something smaller. This makes many older people hesitate to sell their villas – it disappears about 22% of what you have left the villa. It may be bought for 200 000 – 300 000, and today you may get 5 – 6 million for it. This treasure is way too high, I think. I think it should be reduced in order to stimulate mobility and dynamism in the housing market. The stamp tax is also an interesting tax, which is paid for registration when the property is changed. It gives the state no less than 14 billion. The government doesn't have much of a cost for us buying properties from each other, does it? Dividends of taxed capital, 3:12, in limited liability companies are 30 percent. The tax on investment savings accounts is also 30 per cent of the flat-rate income. Return tax on capital insurance is 5 billion, 30 per cent of flat-rate income. Tax on pension funds is 15 per cent. Mr President, I would like to If the tax on capital were to be reduced from 30% to 20%, 35 000 new jobs would be created in Sweden. That would be 3% higher GDP and 6% higher private investment in the economy. And tax revenue would increase by 81⁄2 billion. Thus, 10 percentage points lower capital tax would result in 81⁄2 billion higher revenues. Mr President, I would like to The property tax is disputed and was largely abolished by the Reinfeldt Government. Nowadays we have a property fee, which is then limited. Previously, 1.2 per cent of the tax value was paid. Today, 1 percent is paid for unbuilt plots, but a maximum of 8 500 - 9,000 is paid for built-up properties. The property tax annually provides 35 billion. We sincerely hope – if the evil or bad luck is there, so that there will not be a change of government – that Magdalena Andersson will not have room to reintroduce the property tax. It is a great concern that we have.
i-BX6C13BWKdGkzAzJ9PfHC4	Mr President, I would like to Current taxation of companies, capital and real estate should continue to be a great deal of improvement and efficiency potential. Sweden needs, not least, to have a tax system that makes it attractive for entrepreneurs to locate and develop their business in Sweden. The Riksdag has more to do here. In this report, we particularly want to see modernised and clarified legislation to enable holders to participate in more new issues. We thus want to ensure that holders of investment savings accounts through all banks and financial institutions are allowed to participate in stock exchanges with issues of both newly issued and existing shares. In the wake of the financial aftermath of the pandemic, we also see it as valuable to change today's system for a company's earnings compensation over the years. As the regulatory framework stands today, companies can only offset losses against potential future profits. It can sometimes affect companies to create long-term conditions for maintaining a viable business. We therefore want to set up an investigation to examine the possibility of introducing a so-called carryback, which is already used in the US, the United Kingdom and Canada, among other things, to allow companies to offset losses against previous years' profits. Companies are the backbone of the tax base, i.e. companies' activities are the ones that bear the economic burden on society. Therefore, the conditions and opportunities for businesses to operate must also be taken into account. We believe that investment leads to employment and development. Our vision is that our country will generate prosperity for the benefit of society as a whole. An important component of this is that it should be profitable to invest in new ideas and industrial concepts. Here we believe that the investor deduction is a good tool for directing venture capital towards smaller companies, which would probably have been less interesting to invest in without the deduction. We also intend to further develop the investor deduction taking into account the level of the deduction, the possibility for legal persons to use the deduction and the possibility of allowing the public to make use of it for investments in venture capital funds investing in small businesses. We therefore propose that the possibility for legal persons to use the investor credit be investigated and that the level of the investor credit be increased. In order to make it easier for small businesses, we also want to see a simpler and more understandable system for the few-man company tax system. We are therefore in favour of an investigation into the few-person corporation tax system. Mr President, I would like to In 2004, a study was set up to review the tax and contribution situation of associations. The study New tax rules for sport, SOU 2006:23, contained a number of suggestions on how taxation can be adapted to the modern sports movement. Despite concrete proposals on how to simplify and clarify the tax situation of sports associations, the political will to address the issue seems to be lacking. Instead of following up the investigation with a bill, the then government set up a new investigation, SOU 2009:65, to investigate the taxation of non-profit associations. This investigation did not result in a government proposal either. The Swedish Sports Federation is now expressing concern that the Swedish Tax Agency has begun to apply the regulations, so that professional sport, among other things, is not regarded as a public service activity and that the income of associations from professional activities is subject to unlimited tax. In addition, the Swedish Tax Agency has changed its practice in the taxation of second-hand sales of associations. The Swedish Sports Federation believes that the Swedish Tax Agency's interpretation has a negative impact on the activities of associations for children and young people. We therefore propose that the government submit a proposal for improved tax rules for sport as soon as possible. Mr President, I would like to It is also the view of the Swedish Democrats that the interest rebates need to be reformed in order to be phased out in the long term. An economy that rewards loans and increases the tax on savings helps to put financial stability at risk in the long term. We have also seen that historically. At the same time, we understand that households are acting on the basis of current regulations. We therefore propose, on the one hand, a very slow phasing-out of interest rebates by 1% per year over the next five years and, on the other hand, a reduction in the tax on ISK, investment savings accounts. When the investment savings account was introduced, none of the current eight parties in the Riksdag had any other idea of how flat-rate income from the investment savings account would be calculated. It is said to have been a clear signal to the small savers who opened the account that there were long-term and predictable rules on how their holdings would be taxed and in what forms this would take place. In the 2016 budget proposal, however, the Red-Green Government chose to change the conditions for the savings fund only four years after its introduction by adding a supplement of 0.75% of the entire fee base. Then the tax has been raised one more time. Our view is that the tax rules on the calculation of the fee base should be restored, when the public finances allow, to the rules that were in force before 2018 – in particular because increased interest rates lead to higher ISK fees. Mr President, I would like to For property taxes, pensioners or those receiving sickness or activity benefits have a ceiling limit on how much of their income they have to pay in property tax. We propose that the property fee for vulnerable groups, such as pensioners or those receiving sick or activity benefits, should be further reduced. The current system lacks the possibility to allocate untaxed funds to future maintenance. So-called speculative transactions in vacant land, which were sold with capital gains but without a building permit application having been registered, should be subject to higher capital gains taxation. In order to promote the opportunity for everyone to study, the property fee for student housing should be reduced or exempted. We also propose that investigations be set up to investigate how rural areas can benefit from tax exemptions in connection with the renovation of desert houses. Furthermore, it should be examined whether a deduction for repairs to residential and economic buildings on agricultural units can be introduced. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to stress the importance of developing near-coastal shipping, in particular tonnage taxation and the revision of the stamp duty for Swedish-flagged ships. If Swedish shipping companies compete with the rest of the world, Sweden cannot tax investments on environmental technology higher than other countries through stamp duty on mortgages. It is also important that more equal conditions in relation to other nations need to be developed. We therefore see a need to investigate how further Swedish vessels can be subject to the tonnage tax in order to simplify the tax rules for shipping. I am pleased to note that the Swedish Democrats and the Riksdag have now decided to implement parts of this. Mr President, I would like to Having said that, I support all our reservations, but for time winning I only agree to reservation number 2.
i-QJEgWupqG8epudg8DaxjNm	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The report contains many crucial issues for companies in Sweden. It is the companies that create four out of five jobs, and these are important issues for the competitiveness of Swedish companies to be further strengthened and for companies to dare to develop and take risks. I will focus on some of these points. The deduction for research and development is an important instrument for this very thing. It is also important, I believe, that digital development can provide a basis for deductions. The Center Party believes that the deduction for research and development must be reviewed and strengthened for that very reason. Today, investment in climate compensation is deductible for companies only if it is clearly visible in their marketing. There may indeed be other drivers and benefits of climate compensation that are not always linked to marketing. We therefore want to extend the right of deduction to all companies, even if the expenditure is not directly linked to marketing. Mr President, I would like to There is a housing shortage around Sweden. In fact, this is true both in rural and urban areas. Around the country there are many houses that stand desolate and premises that are empty – even in the city. This is one of many examples of poor use of existing housing stock. It is clear that for many of the houses there is a significant need for renovation, but in order to lower the threshold for people who want to take on this type of house and thus contribute to more housing being put into use, the Center Party has previously proposed a study to abolish the property fee for the first five years for those who take over a building that is not used for permanent housing. Other obstacles to tax legislation that make premises empty also need to be reviewed. All the incentives that can be created to increase housing supply are important. We have discussed this in other reports and other decisions that we have taken here. Mr President, I would like to Let me say a few words about forests and forestry, which are also dealt with in this report. According to the Center Party, forestry is the most important industry for the transition to a fossil-free society. It is a nutrient that can replace fossil fuel and fossil materials, such as plastics, and that can replace less climate-smart building materials. At the same time, we know that it is an industry that has an enormous impact on Sweden's economy and net exports. Swedish tax legislation currently contains something called a forest account and forest damage account. This means that money from a felling, which is done once during the forest's rotation, 80 years or more, may be available over time and not collected and taxed at the time of felling. These are wise economic conditions for Sweden's forest owners, which are crucial for the forest owner's economy. It is good that the Forest investigation led to the bill that we adopted last year, that is, that the procedure should also be investigated for the form of protection that is called nature conservation agreement and that runs for over 50 years. Those funds should also be able to be deposited in a forest account. This is not the case today, but the landowner receives a financial compensation for the restrictions on use imposed by the contract. That compensation is provided as a lump sum at the beginning of the contract period. Not infrequently, landowners and private individuals, or traders, face a situation in which they lease the right to use part of a property for all time but retain ownership. The type example is the lease of land for a power line or road right for a public road. Landowners still own the land, but the use is managed by someone else. It's called all-future acquisition. The Center Party believes that there is also a need to look at how large amounts can be distributed over several years in the future in order to avoid taxation at an individual time. Mr President, I would like to We are making decisions on some issues this afternoon that can make a real difference for different target groups. Firstly, it is the announcements mentioned in the report, and secondly it is the question of sustainable and equal sponsorship, for which we actually seem to have a majority – although the report before us cannot be interpreted. The fact that companies sponsor sport and culture is good and crucial for the economy of associations. For many companies, it is first of all a strategic decision to contribute to sport. We talk about social sustainability, which is becoming increasingly common for companies to want to be associated with and be involved in. But sponsorship today is governed by the Income Tax Act. That law lays down specific rules on deductions for representation, which we have mentioned from the speaker's seat. Rather, we have also mentioned deductions for research and development. However, there are no specific rules in the Income Tax Act for the deduction of sponsorship. Hear and marvel! It's strange because it's not a small sum we're talking about. I don't have a recent figure, but by 2020 the ten largest affiliated sponsor revenues of over SEK 500 million together. How does it work today? Well, associations that receive sponsor support must provide a consideration to the company, either for commercial purposes or through advertising and marketing. The trade mark must therefore be made visible. It's a good system, if that's how it works in a satisfactory way. And here we come to the heart of the matter, for how is the value of marketing and advertising calculated? This is, of course, what the companies and associations involved must report to the Swedish Tax Agency in order to get the deduction approved. Mr President, I would like to Here is the criticism that the Center Party is making against the current regulatory framework – and not just us, but basically the entire sports movement, not least women's sport. Please also note that I say a lot of regulations, because there are no writings specifically about sponsorship in the legal text. Today's system is based on a patchwork of interpretations and precedents in judgments. It may be okay for it to be decided in court if there is disagreement, but then we should be sure that it does not lead to an unequal or unequal outcome, which is a fact today. Why is the value of sold tickets used for a football match used when we know that there is a big difference in audience numbers between women's football and men's football? And is it not equally important to promote the sponsorship of youth sport versus elite sport, where there is also a big difference in audience numbers? Why is the value of a sign in the arena or an advertisement appreciated in a programme sheet, to the extent that it even exists nowadays, but not, for example, the visibility in social media? In fact, today's system benefits arena sports more than, for example, running competitions and orientations — why? These are questions to which I would like the Moderates and the Social Democrats to answer, because they are the only parties that do not want this to change and to be reviewed. I wonder why. They can also respond if they really support what the report says. The committee also notes that it is an important part of a functioning tax system that the rules on deductions for sponsorship are general and clear. It is also one of the underlying principles behind tax policy. In the Committee's view, therefore, the issues of a more equal sport or of sponsorship of culture should not be resolved by way of exemptions from the tax rules. ..................................................... This is exactly what they are not today. The fact that they are decided in court is a sign that they are not clear. And I do not know what to say about the issue of equal sponsorship not being settled by an exemption in the tax rules. It's okay that we have general rules-- I'm fine with that-- but if the effect of the rules is an unwanted result, you have to do something about it. If it leads to unequal or unequal sport, it must be addressed, or are the Social Democrats and the Moderates perfectly okay with these effects occurring? Mr President, I would like to Inequality in sport begins with the first, crunchy trainings on the bones of young children. Today we are pointing to sponsorship, but the truth is that the distribution of public funds going to sport is still about 80/ 20 to men and women's sport – and I am talking about public support. These are problems that are multiplied over time, including through the outdated rules of sponsorship. Developing solutions that highlight obvious tax barriers that stand in the way of equal sport should be at the top of the priority list for everyone in this House. We can't duck for this anymore. Women's sport needs working conditions now – a system for the 2020s and beyond. I'm in favour of reservation 23.
i-PbWbCfvYn5s5pVAsKoJdCV	Mr President, I would like to I am in this debate with the Committee on Taxation today, so it will be a brief speech. I want to lift reservation number 21 on behalf of the Left Party. It is about how we solve the extensive renovation needs that exist in today's rental portfolio. Under the current rules, owners of small-scale houses and tenant-owners' associations can make provisions for future maintenance without tax consequences, while provisions for future maintenance of rental properties can be taxed at 22%. This makes it difficult to maintain rental properties and is one of several examples of rental dwellings being tax-disadvantaged compared to owned dwellings. The Tenants' Association has long demanded fair terms between owned and rented accommodation, and they have therefore proposed so-called tax-free maintenance funds to ensure resources for periodic maintenance and renovation of rental housing. I share the Tenant's view and therefore propose an investigation into how tax-free maintenance funds can be used. Thank you for me!
i-KZwaYiUoZqVLdTxmmqPrX4	Yes, that's right!
i-B2izTxggxWPdeM8i7BXSLJ	Mr. Old President! Today is a good day, because today the Parliament will decide on an announcement to the government to evaluate and propose measures to develop coastal shipping and the tonnage taxation system. In addition, the Riksdag will address an announcement to the Government to review the stamp duty on ship mortgages. It is a united tax committee that puts forward both of these proposals. I am very happy about this, because these are things that I have repeatedly highlighted throughout the parliamentary term – in motions, in debates and in questions to the government. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all my colleagues in the committee for their good work on these issues. Someone may wonder what tonnage taxation really is. It is a flat-rate taxation that helps to improve the conditions for Swedish shipping. It is a simple taxation model that makes it more attractive to have Swedish flagged ships, and as a result it has probably contributed to increasing the number of Swedish flagged ships in recent years. But these developments can and must be strengthened. It is important to have Swedish shipping in particular. Swedish shipping gives tax revenue, and Swedish shipping gives Sweden weight in international contexts – weight that can be used at global level to, for example, push for tougher environmental requirements and better working conditions. But it is also important from a national security and preparedness perspective; a large and diversified Swedish merchant fleet is a prerequisite for necessary transport in the event of a crisis or war. Then we cannot rely on others to lend us their ships. We Christian Democrats have been pushing Sweden for years to start developing the tonnage tax system, reviewing the limitations that exist and minimising the uncertainties that exist for shipping companies in the current system. Now the Riksdag finally decides that the tonnage tax system should be evaluated, but also that measures should be proposed to develop it. I hope that the government is ready and that the matter is addressed immediately. Mr. Old President! Today, Parliament will also decide to review the stamp duty on ship mortgages. The stamp duty is a problem because it has an inhibitory effect on investment. Investing in ships requires a great deal of capital, and often this means that a loan is needed. A loan requires a security guaranteed by a pledge and, when a pledge is issued, a stamp duty is charged. When it comes to investments of hundreds of millions of crowns, the stamp duty becomes a significant amount. Moreover, stamp duty acts as a penalty tax on climate-smart investments because technology at the forefront is often more expensive than conventional technology. This also increases the cost of investment, and it drives up the tax. So it works exactly the opposite of how it should work. Mr. Old President! It is foolish that we have a tax on investments, but it is actually difficult to find words for how stupid it is to pay more tax on an environmentally friendly investment. We Christian Democrats want to remove the stamp tax on ship mortgages, and in our budget we have financed this. We continue to believe that this should be done directly, but today's announcement is, after all, a major step in the right direction. This, too, must be addressed immediately by the government. Mr. Old President! We just heard Helena Vilhelmsson talk about sustainable and equal sponsorship. It appears in the report that there will not be an announcement, but now it seems that it will be. That is, of course, very positive. The Christian Democrats support this announcement, and I hope that the government will immediately address this important issue as well. Mr. Old President! In the tax debates, I and many colleagues tend to point out that there is much in the tax field in Sweden that needs to be improved, but it is also important to say that not everything is negative in Sweden today. There are a wide range of world-renowned companies that have been started here in recent years; some examples are King, Spotify and Zettle. Sweden is actually one of the world's most innovative countries, and we in Sweden should be proud of that. There are many reasons why companies are emerging here in Sweden. One of them is that after gift taxes, inheritance taxes and wealth taxes have been removed, there are conditions for retaining and reinvesting capital here in Sweden. It is extremely valuable to Swedish society both now and in the long term. It is therefore worrying when there is talk from the left of new or higher taxes on capital. This would be against investment in new businesses and thus also against the jobs of the future and the well-being of the future. The Christian Democrats' response is the opposite. The tax rules that have provided the conditions for all these companies to emerge here are to be protected and conditions must be improved. Sweden's tax system should be competitive to operate companies in and attract investment. If tax conditions are good, through tax rules that encourage investment, tax rules that are easy to understand and tax rules and levels that are competitive, the conditions for more jobs to emerge will also be improved. More jobs give more tax revenue. These tax revenues can be used to improve health care, care for the elderly and the police, just to mention a few things. Mr. Old President! Of course, I support all the Christian Democratic reservations contained in the report, but in order to gain time at voting time, I only call for reservation 5.
i-9MHXuN3y4c8jpkMw9CXvA6	Mr. Old President! Today, exactly 131 days remain until the Parliamentary elections. It is an important choice in many respects. Depending on the result of the elections and the distribution of seats here in Parliament, it will lay the foundation for two alternative ways to take Sweden into the future. Either it will continue to be left-wing politics, which will affect the Swedish economy, growth and competitiveness in a negative way, or there will be a shift of power and a bourgeois government that takes up and runs a market-liberal policy that facilitates entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship, which rewards hard work, progress and people's own responsibility for their economy and future, which does not impose penalties on entrepreneurship and creates more new jobs, so that the gap between those who work and those who are not. This obviously holds Sweden together. That is what I call a fair distribution policy. Mr. Old President! The work line must be restored. Today we have 1.3 million people who do not support themselves. That is the ultimate proof of the government's failure. They have had eight years to reverse the trend, but exclusion has only continued to grow year by year. The equation is very simple: our years of common welfare presupposes that we become more people who work and are involved in paying taxes to our tax system. Only then can we make substantial investments in school, care for the elderly, the police, social services and other important sectors of society. In Sweden of the Social Democrats, hard work, hard work, improvement and responsibility do not mean much. The proposals put forward by the government over the past year, in good company with the Left Party and the Green Party, mean a decline to the confiscation taxes of the 1970s. It will affect ordinary people and make Sweden a poorer, less entrepreneurial and less innovative country. If the left side decides, everything that moves must be taxed. On the agenda are strong capital tax increases and reinstated military tax, which I am proud that my party was involved in abolishing at the beginning of this term of office. A millionaire's tax is to be introduced, which the then Minister of Finance – and today's Prime Minister – Magdalena Andersson is the architect behind. Strongly increased taxation on ISK accounts is waiting, which will hit all small savers hard. They also want to increase the tax rate for small businesses – small businesses that work hard and struggle every day to get the business going. This they do in the belief that their proposal for shock-raised taxes will hit hard on the so-called greedy millionaires, but I promise that the millionaires will survive these shock taxes. Capital is possibly once again disappearing from Sweden – capital that is today necessary for investments and growing companies, which in turn contribute to the creation of new jobs. Those who, on the other hand, will take the bill for this left turn are the broad middle class. It is all small savers who save a few cents a month for a cash bet, for their children or their own future pension. It is all small businessmen who struggle and work hard every day so as not to be burdened by society but to be able to fend for themselves. Mr. Old President! Everyone loses from Sweden becoming a country where toil and ambition are punished, where companies and innovations flee abroad and where small businesses are allowed to spend more of their time on regulatory issues instead of developing their own business. The Left calls this a fair distribution policy, but it is false marketing. Of course you can feel that it is good for the moment to solve problems with populist proposals, but in the long term it is devastating for Swedish growth, economy and competitiveness and for the individual's own responsibility for their economy and their future. We Liberals have strong proposals, which I will of course be in favour of. We want to make strong tax reliefs in ISK accounts, and we want the first 300 000 saved crowns to be tax-free. This proposal would mean a huge amount for women's ability to seriously build up the security buffer that many people today find difficult to achieve. It is no secret that women have both lower wages and lower wage developments than men. This is persecuting a lot of people during a full career. Women work part-time more than men. Women take the greatest responsibility for unpaid work for homes and children. Women take most of the parental leave and more than men in their first years of life. Anyone who is familiar with gender equality and feminist issues understands that this is where the foundation is laid for the unequal conditions that men and women suffer in different ways. This not only contributes to lower pensions for women, but also has smaller margins to save. This is the harshest reality in one of the world's most equal countries, and we cannot continue to have it. While the Swedish feminist government continues to put more obstacles in the way of women, we liberals take responsibility for women's economic independence. It is feminism in concrete action. Mr. Old President! It is becoming increasingly clear to voters that a vote for the government and its support parties is a vote for a return to a tax system that many at this point thought we had left behind. Our message is clear. We stand up for the hard work n the middle class, for women's right to become financially independent, to strengthen Swedish companies, for education to be rewarded and for those who work and pay taxes to have more money left in their wallet. Of course, I support all of our reservations, but for time winning at the vote, I only ask for reservation 6.
i-5QCC5ExaPNpq5XhtP8x3Yp	Mr. Old President! We are debating taxation here today. This time the focus is on companies, property and capital. As usual, we hear from the right all about how different taxes are harmful, should be lowered and perhaps should preferably be removed. In this area in particular, it is common to hear how reduced taxes would motivate those who benefit from tremendous levels of efficiency and willingness to work. Mr. Old President! In other debates, however, we hear the same right say that there are too few policemen, prison places, care places, teachers, customs officials, judges and so on. The latest is of course the Swedish Armed Forces that need more resources in the situation we are in. It has, of course, needed it for a very long time. At one time, however, tax cuts were prioritised rather than military defence, for example. What the right is saying is, of course, true – more resources are needed for health care, school, care, the judiciary, defence and other important parts of our society that are funded through the tax bill. But it's when we get here, to what finances everything, that the right's project collapses like a house of cards. For the right hand, there is virtually nowhere to take in the taxes that are needed. Perhaps the right wants to abolish a few deductions, for example for the unemployment fund, or reduce the compensation for those who have been injured at work. At best, they want to increase the tax on harmful things. People are going to work, not get drunk, like Anders Borg said. It is a matter of taxing what is harmful to people or to society. The problem with that philosophy is that there will be less revenue to the state when the penalty taxation works. You cannot shift stable tax bases away and try to compensate with taxes on what you want away from. It just doesn't work. If we want something, we have to pay for it too. Mr. Old President! We need to tax all parts of society fairly equally, for my part preferably progressively and in terms of viability. It is simply not good enough to say that labour and entrepreneurship are good and lower taxes on it, but to replace this with taxation of other tax bases that are equally stable and work to bear the burden of society, such as various forms of taxation of the financial economy, which is heavily under-taxed today. Work carries Sweden, Mr. Age President, no matter how it is organized. Self-employed, preschool staff, industrial workers, librarians – all contribute to Sweden and Sweden's livelihood. Should we be able to support them and ensure that they have a decent working situation and enough colleagues, and also support those industries and people who now during the disgusting war in Ukraine suffer from problems with increased prices and risk that their entire life's work is in decline because they can't afford inputs – then the money must come from somewhere. Of course you can borrow a lot at this stage. We have done that during the pandemic, and we have done it well. But at some point this is to be repaid, and the state is nothing but all of our collective resources and wills. We will all be involved in paying if we have not paid in advance for these eventualities. Although we had a very good situation before the pandemic, debts have increased. Although it was worth it, it is not possible to pretend that tax cuts are the answer to future public sector needs and to build a new economic buffer to cope with future crises. Mr. Old President! If we are to move forward and develop Sweden for the future, we need to distribute taxes more fairly than today. We can begin by not extending the deductions and benefits for companies and people who are already making substantial profits, as many of the proposals we have in this report would do. If we are to strengthen Sweden's defence by over 40 billion a year, they must come from somewhere. It is only this expenditure that we all agree on in this House. We are not reducing this tax to the financing of. Whether the Moderates' dream tax cut could bring 8 billion, it is not even enough to finance the expansion of the defense. At the same time, we know that crime must be further combated and the school strengthened. Health care needs to be increased, perhaps especially the psychiatric care of people's mental health. Of course, this doesn't just require money. It requires, in particular, trained staff who can take the jobs, which also costs through the state treasury. That is why I propose rejecting all motions, Mr. President-in-Office. Sweden can really do better than this. I would also like to take this opportunity to ask some questions to previous speakers in this House. From Moderate Kjell Jansson we heard a quote from an old Social Democrat: Every misused tax crown is a theft from the people. Kjell Jansson claimed that we have forgotten this. That's not true. On the other hand, we may have different views on what is misused tax money. To lower taxes for those who already have substantial amounts and those who don't have very great needs that they can't meet and instead to pick on those who have a hard time in life and who need an education to be able to take a job and support and finance Sweden – we think that is clearly the misused tax money. Kjell Jansson also claimed that authorities are not doing their job and that they are activist and violate rules and laws. Then I simply wonder: Has Kjell or someone else made a complaint about this? For example, has the KU been notified that the authorities are not properly controlled? It's usually very popular to report things in time and out of time, but this hasn't happened at all, has it? Nevertheless, it is said here that it is indeed this way. But nothing has been done about it. I find that very strange, I must say. It was also claimed that the general wage levy is very high and that it could reduce the burden on companies in Sweden. The truth is that the Moderates have already used the general wage levy to introduce job tax deductions and reduce taxes on labour. This was a change of pace. Is it possible to use this money again? It is money that today funds such things as tax cuts for those who actually already have decent income. Then they shifted from health insurance to the general salary fee. So money was actually taken from those who were on sick leave and needed to heal to get back to work. They were turned on and made sure that they had a worse situation. The general wage bill was increased and taxes were reduced for those who still had jobs. This is clearly not a policy for the future. We have to stick together. We must ensure that everyone pays what is needed to meet the common challenges that we have in Sweden in the future – after this election and after the upcoming elections.
i-Dniko3fVSG35jRmhoAHk5A	Mr. Old President! Member Patrik Lundqvist raised the defence in his opening speech. I think that was a good thing because there is an enormous need, not least in view of the disgusting war of invasion against Ukraine, for Sweden, too, in the new security policy situation we are living in, to equip itself with its defence to defend the borders of our country if we are affected in the way that Ukraine and its people are affected. Member Patrik Lundqvist also talked about the need to make a lot of tax increases to finance the defence. Here, too, we have agreed that 2% of GDP will be set aside for rehabilitation in the coming years, and that is very important and not a day too soon. I have a few questions for Mr Lundqvist. In addition to the tax increases that you intend to make if you are allowed to continue to govern Sweden for four more years, you must of course have a financing plan for the defence. What sacrifices are the Social Democrats prepared to make in order for us to be able to rebuild the Swedish defence? Are the Social Democrats ready to set aside their meaningless family week? Do you have a plan for how more people will get into work and pay taxes so that we can strengthen our defence, perhaps with more than 2% of the bnp? It would be interesting to hear what your funding plan is, in addition to continuing to tax those who already pay a great deal.
i-7TpcyiwhDcAeJx9gbBvx2k	Mr. Old President! The defense is a question that is close to me. Because I am employed in the defence at times, so I am doing my job not only in this House but also with the readiness to try to defend Sweden as much as possible with the resources we have. I therefore welcome the increase in defence envelopes. I am thinking here and now not establishing what financing models we can imagine; that is not our melody. We are trying to create broad alliances and agree on something that can last over time. That is our primary objective on these issues. In general, the problem is not to get along with us, but that everyone else will manage to get on with some little heart issue and perhaps need to compromise a little. We do not really have a reputation for wanting to hold back, but many others do. You mentioned that Magdalena had been the architect of a millionaire tax. It sounds like an exciting idea, but I've never heard it before. Nor did I say anything in my opening statement on tax increases. I have just talked about the fact that, at this point, there is no point in doing a lot of tax cuts because we all know that revenue needs to increase.
i-MN63xXReXBmBfm3miCuJTB	Mr. Old President! The defense is also close to my heart, and that is why I have signed up for the Home Guard during this terrible period. Hopefully, then I too will be able to do my little bit to defend Sweden in the event that it would be necessary. Member Patrik Lundqvist did not answer my question. Of course, all parties will have to compromise in one way or another, but a compromise cannot mean that we should all have to deal with the Social Democrats. I am therefore repeating my question, which is important and relevant, not least now that we are going to present a serious plan for how the defence is to be financed. What sacrifices are the Social Democrats prepared to make in order for this to end? I agree that, at this point, a broad palette of tax cuts is relevant, but the solution cannot be the huge tax shocks on which the Social Democrats are going to elections. I would therefore appreciate it if Mr Lundqvist would reply to my simple question: what sacrifices are the Social Democrats prepared to make to finance the defence?
i-NBqxCbyaRUazLJDmWcRkLa	Mr. Old President! The sacrifices that Sweden needs to make are to pay the tax money needed to finance the defense. We are not going to elections on any broad palette of tax increases. That's what the Gulan has made up. She must have looked somewhere at the Liberals' party and found out about the attacks against the Social Democrats, for those tax increases are not there. We are prepared to review the entire tax system in order to achieve fair and equal taxation in Sweden. We had an agreement with the Liberals on that, but you broke it. It would have been a good start to get the tax revenue we need to finance the defence and all the other things that you want to do too. But it is more fun to accuse us of wanting to make massive tax increases that destroy a lot of things than to take these issues seriously and look at what we can and must do to secure Sweden. It should be in focus now and for a long time to come. I am also not convinced that 2% is the right level in the end, but it is at least a first step.
i-YLEfxdRPaQgzBNVqErfRYR	Mr. Old President! I was going to address the question I put to the Social Democrats in my speech but which the honourable Member chose not to raise, namely the deduction of sponsorship. I can understand that it may be a little confusing, because in the negotiations for today's vote it seems that the proposal may not go through. However, all of us in committee know that it was a false majority and that the Green Party was always in the committee to look at this issue. I therefore assume that the vote follows the majority in committee and in this House. I asked the question whether the Social Democrats think today's rules work in an acceptable way. If you do, I would like an explanation of why you think so. It is important to have both sport in the widest sense and to have an elite sport, but today elite sport in terms of sponsorship as well as men's sport benefits over women's sport. How is it that the Social Democrats think that an advertising sign in an arena is something to value when it comes to compensation while they barely take into account advertisements on social media, web pages and so on? Why should arena sports be easier to sponsor than, for example, orientation or other outdoor sports? Do the Social Democrats think that today's system is good from an equality and gender perspective when companies and associations are allowed to act as tax experts instead of doing what they are good at, namely sport?
i-Y8T5Tj2wLALFQQyWNx9mbu	Mr. Old President! I have no real point of view on how these values are made. As I understand it, you need a quid pro quo to be able to make your deductions. However, I am not so sure that you always have to make deductions. Should it be needed to support sports you care about? It is, of course, more a philosophical issue than the issue of the tax system. I am also convinced that this can actually be handled within our systems in the Swedish Tax Agency and other authorities that make the assessment of what is reasonable and what is not. I think, unlike what Helena Vilhelmsson said, that it can sometimes be good to have more or less transparent rules that can be interpreted and adapted to how it can work best for each individual activity, instead of us in this House creating detailed rules that are never tried in court or anywhere else based on how they land for different stakeholders.
i-TxMbFoUvuTjjoXDpdASfD	Mr. Old President! Thank you for your answer. I find it very boring to hear that you do not have a point of view on these values and that you ask the question why you should have deductions. This means, of course, that the Social Democrats are satisfied with the system that is today, while the club after the club with which I have spoken screams at change because the system is neither equal nor equal. I would almost have thought that the honourable Member would say that if you are going to look at this, it needs to be included in a general tax review, which would be a good thing, because I do not really think that you should patch and fix a regulatory framework either. However, if the regulatory framework today has obvious undesirable effects, something must be done about it. The Social Democrats have done so in other cases. A few weeks ago, we made a decision in this House about an announcement to the government to review internal VAT. Then it went well but not in this case. There are also clear rules in the legislation today on, for example, deductions for representation, research and development, but not on sponsorship, as I mentioned. Like I said, I can buy that sometimes it's good if things go to court. However, if one finds that the effects of the current system are not good, one does not have to wait for a court because they do not actually take into account whether it is unequal or unequal. It is a political issue – a political issue which the Social Democrats obviously do not think is important. Why don't you think so?
i-3oGWLx7kAVdyq6RXK4PCxw	Mr. Old President! Of course, I basically agree with what Helena Vilhelmsson said and perhaps did not think it needed to be said, namely that we need a tax system that is sustainable at all levels and that we have patched and fixed in the system an eternal number of times and made it extremely difficult and complicated in some places and also very different. I said in my speech that we need a tax system that is equal for everyone, that is predictable and that is fair. The problem is that sometimes it resists opportunities to cheat, opportunities to make deductions that no one thought or create structures that no one had anticipated and that make you get away with. That's one reason to patch and fix. Another is the constant demand for different exemptions and reductions for individual industries or activities. All these are dissonances in our tax system, and I think that we may not ever be able to get away from them completely. But, as far as possible, we will of course reduce all possibilities of making up our own abrovines. You shouldn't have to work yourself to death to understand what to do at all. We absolutely share this ambition, but to approve this kind of motion at the moment is not the best way to use the resources available.
i-GgaftWFmg6Ah7yS5fZaNyg	Mr. Old President! Member Lundqvist apostrophes signed, and it is as usual: The Social Democrats will solve everything, all of Sweden's problems, by raising taxes. Always raised treasure! When I was a councillor and we made the budget we always started by looking at the expenditure side first, before we even started talking about raising the tax etcetera. It was always a matter of prioritising to stay within the framework – always. I do not think that is the intention of the honourable Member, Mr Lundqvist. Tax increases are the answer to everything. Therefore, my question to Lundqvist is: do you intend to reintroduce property tax and drive people from house and home? That's what you did when it existed. People had to sell and move. Do you intend to keep the family week for 11 billion? If we are now to add EUR 40 billion to the defence, which I think the House is quite in agreement on – do you still want to have the family week left? Are you prepared to review aid amounting to 60 billion? The aid receives more money than the entire legal system in Sweden. I checked with Parliament's investigation service, and of this EUR 60 billion, I get an answer of EUR 14 billion. They account for 14 billion, 46 billion they can't account for, but there are black holes at Sida, I get in response. Are the sossies prepared to reconsider it in order to finance the defense list? The authorities referred to Mr Lundqvist. Then it's like this: I myself sit on the building board of my home municipality. A united building committee with the Social Democrats, the Green Party, all want to give permission for people to build a bridge where there has been a bridge before. You might have to rebuild it after 80 years. But then the county administrative board, which unlike us in the building committee has no local knowledge whatsoever, enters and clears the decision.
i-PcqSDhs3XSxvb84pPPm8AD	Mr. Old President! It is nevertheless exciting to hear the honourable Member talk about the need to look at expenditure first. I had the impression that he is an entrepreneur, and most companies actually invest where profits can be made. You borrow money to invest for future profits. It's a very well-established way. This can also be done in the state. You can invest to get more out of the money in the future. It is a well-used way here too, but of course you do not want to use it because you want the market and the private side to do as much as possible. Let's see how it goes. The school's broken. It cheats the iron in the care of the elderly, because market forces have been unleashed, villains, bandits and villains released in our public activities with more or less free drawing rights on tax money. Of course, this is what we are working towards and trying to curb and ensure that it ends as soon as possible. All cheating and all criminality in both the public and private sectors should be curbed, partly because it benefits our country because we then get people who get a decent income legally and partly because order and order provide stable public finances. We can be accused of too much, but probably 17 we also look at expenditure in the Swedish state. We're not just raising taxes to solve problems. On the other hand, it has been Moderate mantra for a very long time: Lowered taxes and a rollover of activities in the private part of society will solve most things. That it doesn't work, we've seen.
i-6E21vPTTXaDZx4CSW6C7Ek	Mr. Old President! We have completely different views on this, Mr Lundqvist and myself. I want a freer society, and Lundqvist wants a stronger state – nothing strange. Public activities cannot be compared with companies. Companies run their business to make money. The government spends money. The government makes money in the form of taxes, nothing else. This is what it is all about. Therefore, it is necessary first to pursue costs in public activities, not always first to increase revenues in the form of increased taxes. That's the difference. It is interesting that the Lundqvist Member calls entrepreneurs who run retirement homes and nice free schools for villains and bandits. I've had my boy in a free school myself. It was great. The family, not the county officials, had to choose where the kid would go. You want to eliminate that. It's an attack on the freedom of choice system you're after. That's what we're gonna bring with us. What you're looking for is a monopoly of production. You want the state and the municipalities to do as much as possible. In the past, municipal companies competed with private companies in the municipalities, which is why the Government formed Bildt's Public Procurement Act. The government had to do it to get rid of this. There's corruption! Anders Borg reduced taxes by SEK 280 billion, and the government received SEK 45 billion more because more came into work and pressure was also put on people to start working and not be at home because they have pain in the little toe.
i-LrRT8PP4jHBDsNswPYW9C	Mr. Old President! It is true, as Kjell Jansson says, that I want a strong state. I want a strong state because it guarantees free individuals who have opportunities in society. It is counterproductive for those who already have and who use those who do not have that much resources. We see a society that is emerging today where people are exploited on construction sites and sometimes even have to pay back what they get paid for it to look nice in the accounts that are made to the authorities. We know this, and we know that it has come from the fact that the strong state went back in favour of market forces and the people who can buy rights before others in society. I want a strong state because people are free of it. People can be built by a proper school where they get the knowledge and opportunities they need in a modern society. We cannot do that by competing and claiming that people are at home because they have a little pain in their toe. At the same time, the honourable Member is trying to say that when I talk about villains and bandits in publicly funded activities, I'm talking about all the companies. Of course I don't. But here we have a person who can ralli over people who get hurt and get sick at work and accuse them of having a little pain in their toe. I think that is a rather distasteful argument from the honourable Member, Mr President-in-Office.
i-Hyxrh9qQzjfQM1BtZ5SQYi	Mr. Old President! I should just like to add that the Moderates are in favour of reservation 1 in the report.
i-WZpAfNhjD12zFEhx6SsNHU	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen. Civil defence needs to be strengthened. In recent times, many of us have strongly criticised the government's work on civil defence. This is quite serious, especially when we are in the current deteriorating security situation. The problem is that this has been investigated and investigated but that the government will never get to grips with it. A special investigator, Barbro Holmberg, was tasked with analysing and proposing a structure for responsibility, management and coordination in civil defence at central, regional and local level. It was handed over to the government over a year ago. But it seems only now that the government has come to the conclusion that it has been given. This is serious. In referrals to the investigation, the Swedish Armed Forces, for example, pointed out that it is a prerequisite that civil defence is strengthened in order for the military defence to function. Mr. Old President! Sweden must be well equipped to face the future, whether it is a matter of war, pandemics, disruption of supply chains or cyber attacks. The Moderates therefore want to see, through many good proposals, radical reforms to strengthen civil defence. And most of our proposals are not new proposals, but they are proposals that we have been highlighting for a long time. For example, we need a new National Security Council for a clearer crisis management. We need more resources for the work of municipalities and regions on civil defence and clear objectives and follow-up of results. We need to set up a business council, introduce modern civil duty and strengthen Sweden's cyber security. Sweden's civil defence must be in line with the armaments of military defence that we are in. I was yesterday on Gotland and saw the rearmament on P 18 – fantastic. But we don't go along with civil defense, and that's what we need. It is seven years since civil defence planning began. Since then, however, work has been on the throes. Despite both the pandemic and the current situation in Europe, the issue has not been given sufficient priority. You've talked a lot, but you're not, like I said, making a move. So it has been seven years since the defence decision in 2015, and too little has actually been done. And the Social Democrats have been responsible all along. Then you actually wonder what the explanation is. There is a heavy shadow over the government's lack of responsibility in this matter. At least the defence decision in 2015 resumed civil defence planning. During these seven years, we have had a great many investigations. For example, the Business Council of the National Defence has been examined three times, and still has not been put to the vote. We have had questions about the structure of civil defence and security of supply in various investigations with a close-out date in the long term, and there has been insufficient resource support. At least a great deal of money is being invested in civil defence, and that is a good thing. But I will say that it is thanks to the Moderates and the other opposition parties that it was extra SEK 800 million for civil defence this year. In the mission that the government gave to the Defence Committee from the beginning, there was nothing about the preparation considering measures to strengthen civil defence. Now it is important that we strengthen our municipalities and regions in this regard, so that it becomes clear financially but also with direction and governance what is to be achieved. Municipalities and regions need to work more structured on the issue and employ people who over time can keep working on a civil defence. It is about everything from population protection and transport to having the resources to establish alternative staff places. Mr. Old President! When it comes to population protection, we have 64 000 shelters in Sweden and have not built any new ones, despite the agreement in the Swedish Defence Committee that new shelters would be built in strategically important places. The control of our shelters is also extremely neglected. Many have not been renovated or checked in a long time. And in the case of those who have been checked in the past, what was controlled and what needed to be addressed has been lost. This actually poses a real risk to Swedish total defence capabilities as we do not have full control over our preparedness situation and population protection. Mr. Old President! On behalf of the Moderates, we have long highlighted the need for a new National Security Council for a clearer crisis management. What is asked for when there is a crisis is precisely a clear leadership. The crises of recent years have underlined this need. The lack of leadership and coordination skills was evident throughout the pandemic, and there were consequences that we could have avoided. Mr. Old President! I said earlier that the government has three times investigated a business council that was already agreed upon in the Defence Committee would be set up. I have received a reply from the minister responsible that this will be in place this summer. It will be exciting to see it during Swedish high summer. I think that the government should have been able to start this a long time ago. Many of the resources previously held by public operators are currently managed by the business community. That is why we are dependent on industry for civil defence to work today. There are various forums between industry and public actors today. But it has been found that they are not enough. That is why we need better and efficient planning to meet the critical needs of the total defence. The Moderates also want to strengthen cooperation between the business community and the state and to introduce conversion agreements with the business community and carry out a review of laws and regulations that regulate the possibility of signing agreements with the business community. Mr. Old President! Today we can see a large influx of stakeholders to, for example, the Home Guard and the lottery corps. It's amazing fun! The Swedes want to help and be prepared. It is a big change that so many more want to be prepared and be able to take responsibility in the event of a crisis or war. For example, in order to meet this, civil service obligations could be introduced. We have agreed that we should, but the government has not taken hold of it. Civil duty, which we have had in the past, was abolished in 2008. This involves, for example, training in firefighting, medical care, cleaning up or repairs. We need to have more staff in the event of crisis or war, and civil service could be a good way to get a broader understanding of this and make it work. It is important to be able to take responsibility and be prepared, and that is why the government should tackle this and urgently activate a form of modern civil duty. Finally, Mr President-in-Office, I would like to highlight Sweden's cybersecurity, which must be strengthened. Sweden is today one of the world's most digitised countries, but we are not good enough at cyber security. Here we need to get much better. The national cybersecurity centre must have permanent premises and a clear headship. Someone's got to take the lead shirt. We also need more resources to develop technical solutions to identify, analyse and respond to attacks on socially important activities. Of course, I support all the reservations of the Moderates, but I call for the gain of time only for reservation 36 in paragraph 15.
i-5x4qe8kEDvxsgL18NpZC64	Mr. Old President! Military defence does not work without civil defence, and there are many elements that urgently need to be put in place. I will highlight some of our reservations in the broad report on Civil Defence and Crisis Preparedness, which we are now debating. Much of what I will be highlighting are subjects we have touched on in debates for a number of years. We welcome the fact that the pace and means are now increasing, although we would have liked to have seen this happen a little earlier. A credible and effective total defence requires that the civilian component, as well as the military, is well-coordinated and financed with clear objectives and a structure of responsibility. And this will be in place already in peacetime.
i-9xyZd17bAV3P3xCVfSGzQF	As a result of the changes in security policy in recent years, civil defence is now in the process of being restored, which is something we welcome and have worked for for a long time. Civil defence shall have good capabilities and planning to provide support for military defence. Civil defence will also strengthen society's collective capacity to prevent and cope with severe pressures both in peace and in war. In order to restore civil defence, a responsible authority is needed. The Swedish Civil Protection Agency has so far played a role as an interface between different authorities. We believe that MSB should have overall responsibility for civil defence and that the authority must be given a clearer role as coordinator. One of MBS's responsibilities should be to determine the content of emergency stocks together with the relevant authorities. Civil defense and the Reich's emergency preparedness are in need of emergency stocks. Some products require national and regional stocks, while others require large-scale central stocks supplemented by local stocks. The benchmark should be that emergency stocks are capable of covering at least three months' consumption. In order to improve and ensure our ability to cope with future crises, the level of self-sufficiency of food, medicines and protective and medical equipment, for example, also needs to be significantly increased – something we experienced during the pandemic. Today, a great deal of civil defence is required, as today's threat picture is complex and unpredictable. In addition to war, threats to our security include cyber attacks, impact operations, natural disasters, terrorism and infectious diseases. The new threats mean that the restored civil defence must have broad competence, knowledge and capabilities. This requires extensive efforts on exercises, materials and personnel, among other things, to create a strong civil defence that is capable of solving its tasks in all circumstances for at least 90 days. It is also important that the requirements for the individual are clearly communicated. For the kingdom to cope with future crises or wars, it is of the utmost importance that every citizen takes on a great responsibility and prepares himself so that he or she can survive without the support of society for at least a week. It is then important to create knowledge and a people's attachment in the total defence, and our voluntary defence organisations, among other things, make a great contribution. A strong willingness to defend and prepare can be crucial in the event of a crisis or war. Another important component of robust total defence is the reintroduction of civil duty. Today, there is an opportunity to imprison people into society outside military service. In the event of a situation of increased preparedness, the Government may provide for public service obligations if this is necessary for the maintenance of activities of particular importance for the overall defence. The regulation may relate to a particular part of the country or to a specific activity. The problem lies in the fact that the people the government uses may not have the procedures that their task requires or is sufficiently co-ordinated with their partners. There may also be serious situations in the event of a crisis or grey-zone problems where there is no increased preparedness and since the government does not have the authority to call for duty. It is important, then, that civil service is restored and that we have, if necessary, a civil service education. These may include, for example, the need for civil protection personnel, power network operators in a war or crisis situation or persons who are war-placed in their workplace without further training needs, but with an understanding and routine in the event of a crisis or war. Mr. Old President! There are many areas in our reservations that concern everything from forest fire control to ensuring that money works in crisis or war situations, but I choose to ask for approval only for reservation number 2.
i-JoYmw9F7hXTw8TswiR1X4Y	Mr. Old President! For many years, the Center Party has noted that Swedish civil protection needs to be developed in order for everyone living in the whole country to have the same right to safety and security, whether it is in cities or in rural areas. It feels good that our proposal on flying fire-extinguishing resources became a reality. It is highly likely that this will be needed more and more often. We do not know what summer will be like with regard to the coming weather. The Center Party wants MSB to be given a special task in supporting the municipalities in recruiting part-time firefighters, for this is a major challenge in many of the country's municipalities. The Center Party wants to see a specialist training for firefighters in how large forest fires should both be combated and managed over time. More training places for firefighters also increase the state presence around the country. In the field of civil protection, drones have become increasingly important and more common both before and during an operation. Through increased use of drones, emergency services can get a situation picture more quickly and more easily, but also, for example, locate forest fires and get out heart-starters for those in need. Today, however, it is a perceived heavy bureaucracy and a regulatory framework with expensive subscriptions to obtain permission for local rescue services to use drones. The Center Party therefore wants to simplify or remove the bureaucracy for civil protection so that they can use drones as smoothly as possible in their daily operations. Mr. Old President! The whole of society is affected by the consequences of an increasingly warmer climate. Huge values are at stake, in Sweden and abroad. We see that considerable efforts are needed to adapt all parts of our society. These are spatial planning, water and sewage, energy supply, agriculture and forestry. It is also a question of dealing with droughts, in parallel with a very deteriorating security policy situation. Discussing and debating emergency preparedness and civil defence is becoming increasingly complex at the moment. Our society should not only deal with one crisis at a time but also take up the height of many crises, both civil and military, in the same period of time. The Center Party believes that new forms of funding need to be explored to ensure that sufficient funds are available for climate adaptation measures. However, prevention is not enough. Civil protection resources must also be adapted to deal with wider and regular disasters such as floods, fires and storms. When it comes to how the pandemic has affected Swedish emergency preparedness, we can see that there are major deficiencies, which have often been left without action. It is an undergrade for Swedish crisis preparedness that major development steps for continued work are usually taken only after a major crisis has occurred. Put this in a total defence perspective, and ask the responsible ministers: Will there be opportunities to evaluate what an armed attack will mean for Swedish existence? With the same perspective when it comes to day-to-day civilian emergency preparedness, there is a very great risk that we do not take the security policy situation seriously and see the reality as it actually is. Then the prospects are very difficult if you do not take preventive measures in time and also dimension what an armed attack can have for the whole country. There is not Swedish governance today. There is also a difference between the military and the civilian. I do not feel that everyone in senior positions is taking the threat of an armed attack very seriously. Pandemic as well as climate-related disasters must lead to a reformed emergency preparedness with a higher priority across society. For example, when it comes to the supply of medicinal products, audit and audit reports have already shown that the coordinating role of the National Board of Health and Welfare in major crises has been unclear and that accountability needs to be clarified. This is an example of what it looks like and what is not good enough in our emergency preparedness. Mr. Old President! Civil defence requires far more than peacetime emergency preparedness. In war, you meet a strategic opponent. The structures of peacetime events and wars need to be able to deal as much as possible with both peacetime crises and a situation of increased preparedness. The construction of a new strong civil defence shall be on a solid basis so that system failures that exist in emergency preparedness do not follow and become flaws in a new civil defence. We, the Center Party, have been involved in negotiating agreements for a stronger total defence and, most recently, with the other parties, have reached an important agreement on further reinforcements. The 800 million that we are strengthening with this year obviously need to follow next year and the years after, so that, for example, the Swedish Municipalities and Regions in their budget work now for midsummer can lay out the conditions for local preparedness work. It is an important signal that the government must give to the country's municipalities. Without it, the work will not get started, and it will not be dimensioned for long-term development and long-term local work. It's an unpredictable security situation. We need to make the best use of time. It also includes doing what is necessary to support the voluntary defence organisations, which cover many and important areas throughout the country. The Center Party has for a long time been pushing us to see a strengthened voluntary spirit both in peacetime crises and in a modern total defence. It is important that planning takes its starting point on how volunteers should participate in the active work. Training and exercises are also needed. An integrated approach is also needed in terms of security of supply, logistics, management of vulnerable flows, external dependence and a huge dependence on energy imports. Health care needs to become more resilient, and the degree of self-sufficiency of food in the country needs to be substantially increased. We are in a situation with a cost crisis for Sweden's farmers, which is dependent on, among other things, the import of fertilisers linked to Russia. Where is Swedish security of supply in a year? It has already been difficult for many to implement spring use, for economic reasons. We do not know, given how little it has rained in many places in Sweden during April and what the forecast looks like for the next few weeks, what it will have become of the sowing when it is time to harvest. This can greatly affect our security of supply in the coming year, but also the conditions for next year's spring use. The Center Party wants an updated food strategy, of course, to have security of supply as a separate section. These jobs must be much more closely linked. We also need to give agriculture and green industries the status of social activity. They don't today. The actors that exist in Swedish primary production must of course also, as soon as possible, be included and made involved in total defence planning much more. There are many measures here aimed at strengthening our security of supply. I don't have time to go into all areas, but stocks, logistics and endurance are important key words to make it work. Finally, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to say that there is reservation 21 under paragraph 7, which is linked to the importance of primary producers. But I would also like to appeal to the Government Office. We have now been discussing these issues for seven years, following the defence decision of 2015 with the following additional agreements and also after the large decision on more resources that we took in connection with the defence decision of 2020, and are still military and civilian divided into different ministries. As a member of the Defence Committee, I see how Swedish total defence planning apparently suffers from this split leadership, that there is no overall perspective on how these issues are synchronised and will work together, both next year and next year. There is an enormous risk of security policy not getting to grips with this now. Given all the investigations that are in different phases and are not ready for the next shipyard with the Defence Preparation this autumn, we are losing a lot of time in this very sensitive security policy situation. Government representatives should take this call to themselves: Now gather strength and show united leadership on these issues so that it permeates all policy areas and also the local level in Swedish politics!
i-KuxUrSGcSVjSRJMZCJkMrt	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen. Hello to those who watch at home and to those who sit in the gallery listening! Today, the Committee on Defence is debating motions in the field of civil defence and emergency preparedness. It is an annual debate. The last two times we have debated this, we have been in a pandemic, and now there is war in Europe following Russia's invasion of Ukraine. This debate has felt very topical and important every time it has been held. Right now we are sitting in the Defense Committee discussing how the expansion of the entire total defense should take place. Yesterday we received a very good presentation of how far the government has come in this work. It goes forward with small steps but needs to go very much faster. I would like to agree with what Daniel Bäckström has just said about the need to keep the total defense together. Today, civil and military defence lie in various departments within the government, and this makes it harder for us to keep it together. Mr. Old President! The events of recent years and the experiences that many people have had during the pandemic and even now during the ongoing war in Ukraine have placed a great focus on the issues of crisis preparedness and civil defence. Two years ago, many of us may have had a bit of a hard time seeing before us what a crisis that affects the whole of society or a war in the middle of Europe could look like. Perhaps the call to have a crisis box at home felt a bit abstract to many people. Now, however, we have experienced major crises that have affected life and health but also the way society works. Our perspective on what is important has changed. During the pandemic and even now that there is a war in Europe, we have seen how the helpfulness and solidarity between people has increased in society. We have also experienced the vulnerability of our society following privatisations and cuts in health care, in particular, but also in care for the elderly and home care. Over the past few years, we have talked more and more about living in a vulnerable society, but the focus has been on natural disasters and climate change, especially on fires and droughts. But during the pandemic we have been reminded that we have another threat, and that is diseases and pandemics and how this can happen to us. And now we have again become aware that the wars in the world are not over and that civil defence must be rebuilt here in Sweden too. As with previous crises and serious events, we must ensure that our society is stronger after the crises so that we can face future threats even better than we can today. When crises are over, it is important that we learn from the time that has been and does not forget or put things behind us too quickly. We need to evaluate at all levels in order to make society even better and to be able to face future crises even better. In recent years we have been given a very strong reminder of the vulnerability of society, including after privatisations and cuts, and of the need to have a stronger resilience in the future. Mr. Old President! Civil defense is very large and very broad. It contains, to put it simply, everything in society. It's all part of civil defense. There is everything from the usual welfare of health care and preschools to electricity and heat, food and water, medicines and transport – everything that is needed for society to function. Civil defence can also include the cultural and sports sector, because culture and sport can contribute to reflection and joy and to forgetting heavy times when we are in the midst of a crisis. Civil defence is therefore the opportunity for the whole of society to withstand crises, to be resilient and to recover as quickly as possible. It is therefore very important that Sweden continues to rebuild civil defence and that we build on the experience that has been gained in recent years. I very much look forward to the government re-establishing civil service at some point in the future so that even more people will have a basic education in order to be able to support society in crisis. Mr. Old President! We live in a society that has suffered from cuts and privatisations in the public sector in many places and for a long time. I mention it several times in my speech because this is so serious. Municipalities and regions have a great responsibility to plan for how activities such as health care, care for the elderly and preschool can continue to operate even in times of crisis. When there is a crisis, even welfare may have to expand and become even bigger and better. This requires financial resources. This requires preparation, cooperation and knowledge-raising. Medical care is one of the things that the Swedish Armed Forces are now pointing out as something we really need to strengthen in order to get a total defence that works overall. Activities that already go on their knees when it's quiet in society and where the employees find it difficult to manage everything that they should do will of course have a very difficult time to complete their mission when there is a crisis. In order for an operation to function in the event of a crisis, it is necessary that the personnel are not initially understaffed or understaffed. We in the Left Party believe that we must stop cuts in the municipal and regional sectors. We must have fully funded healthcare and care for the elderly in the future, where staff have higher salaries, better working conditions and time for further training. It is also part of strengthening civil defence. More people must want to train themselves to be a health professional, to stay at work all the way up to retirement and feel pride and joy every time they go to work. We all have a shared responsibility for our society to be strong and resilient. For the Left Party it is obvious that equal societies where we plan, fund and implement things together are strong societies. We believe that the privatisations and sales of recent decades have made our society weaker and have made it more difficult for activities to coordinate effectively and quickly during crises. We therefore need to take back socially important activities, especially in the welfare sector, in the public domain. Mr. Old President! The Left Party has two motions in this report. Both relate to areas other than defence policy. This shows how important and broad areas of crisis preparedness and civil defence are. The first exercise is about fireworks. It may seem a little far from what I've been talking about now, but it's still in this area. Fireworks are nice and fun to watch, think many people, but they also risk creating discomfort and damage to the environment, and they can even be deadly. The rules have been tightened up recently, but we believe that there is a need to make a further review of existing legislation on fireworks. The reservation I would like to endorse is reservation number 50, Mr. President. It is about housing policy and the need for better supervision of fire safety in multi-family buildings. Fires in homes can be incredibly serious and, of course, fatal, but they can be prevented by better supervision of smoke detectors and sprinkler systems even in apartment buildings. It's a simple measure that can save lives.
i-F9JhzxjW3WKm7FASgziQXs	Mr. Old President! Hey, all of you watching and not least all of you sitting in the stands! We are debating the Defence Committee's report No 22. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 4 in paragraph 1. Civil defence is something very important, and not least right now it is important. As has been pointed out here before, there is a war in Europe. It has serious consequences and is a strong reminder that we need to strengthen our defence. We have challenges with our military defence, but we do have challenges in terms of civil defence as well. We've had that for a long time. That is why the first mission that the Defence Committee was given over five years ago was to produce a report on what civil defence looks like, what we are doing and what needs to be done. That is why we presented a report of no less than 250 pages with a series of concrete proposals on how to strengthen security and improve civil defence, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Let me take a few examples. This is important for the Christian Democrats, and it is important for our country. I'll start with civil service. We have military service. That's good. But we also have civilian duty. We put forward a proposal for 800 to be charged each year. They would be tasked with helping with better electrical security, so that there can be no sabotage in, for example, a war situation. The rescue services would be supported. And you would be staff support to municipalities. It was supposed to be done from last year. But nothing has happened. We have many voluntary defence organisations. 350 000 people are involved. We pointed out that they need to be given an increased task. Many have been in touch now, with this situation, and want to help. But you have to get money to channel your commitment. Nothing's happened. The role of industry has been pointed out several times here. It's really important. Not least in Finland, we have seen that the business community is armed, that they are paid compensation, and that they can therefore have higher preparedness and margins. It's also practiced. But despite several investigations, it's not up and running. We said they'd be involved in a special way. But not even a business council is in place. Mr. Old President! Another issue is the issue of shelters. They were to be surveyed, and new ones were to be built from 2021. But nothing has happened. The defense committee wanted the emergency police to be recreated and that it would consist of 5,000 emergency police. By the end of 2021, 1 000 emergency police officers would be in place. Nothing's happened. They would be an extra resource, for example in the event of a crisis at Arlanda Airport, or in other ways could relieve the police. It would be important in crises but also, of course, in a war situation. We had clear proposals on how to ensure the supply of food, drinking water, electricity, fuel and medicines. But very little has happened. Recently, after the Swedish Energy Agency had sounded the alarm, it emerged that there are not even pumps with spare units so that we can pump up fuel in the tankers, for example. It has been on the Swedish Radio website; it is not a secret I reveal. It's another proof that there has to be a workshop. Something has to happen. As far as health care is concerned, we already face major challenges today. We would find it very difficult to cope with a crisis situation. The defense committee pointed out that there would be emergency hospitals in each military region. Then there is what Mr Daniel was talking about just now: food. The Parliament adopted a food strategy in 2017. However, it was not until October three years later that directives were given to the relevant authorities. There's still very little out of that tap. Here we have huge challenges. Finland – to take them as an example again – has another thought. They have ensured that they are able to support their population for six months without adding as much as a grain of grain. In Sweden, and here in Stockholm, we would manage for maybe eight days. Then the shelves are empty. It also has to do with self-sufficiency. Finland still has a self-sufficiency rate of 80 per cent, but in Sweden it has fallen step by step to now below 50 per cent. It's not something you change on a coffee break or two. But we must see that it is not good enough that we are self-sufficient in carrots, wheat flour and sugar. It'll be a good carrot cake. But we need to make sure we have better livelihoods. It is a question of the farmers having better conditions and having the aim of restoring a higher level of self-sufficiency. It is also part of security of supply, and it is definitely important in crisis situations. That we have weapons is important. But if we don't have food, there will be major consequences. I'll sum up. Not even the management system, how it should be organized, is clear. It has also been pointed out that it is in different departments. It is very unfortunate that it is not the same department, as it was before, before 2014. You split it up, and it's not gonna be good. I would also like to push ahead with another matter of crisis. We have had large fires in Sweden. We need to learn something from it. However, in five places in the country, the Swedish Maritime Administration still has seven helicopters that are type-approved to have a hook and be able to help with the control by having large vats under them. But still nothing has happened. We are sure that, unfortunately, there will be new crises. There will be new fires. Then we have to have things like this in place. It is an obligation to ensure that we have better preparedness next time it happens. Mr. Old President! Finally, I would like to say something about cybersecurity. Cybersecurity is very important. Sweden is the most connected country in the world. We're very digitized. That's good. But we see that we are sinking in cybersecurity measurements. In Sweden, we have divided the responsibility into 7 authorities. If you add everyone responsible, we're up to 15. It's not gonna be good. It falls between the chairs. We should do as many other countries do and let one authority have the main responsibility. This would bring much more security and security. Speaking of Ukraine, we are now seeing Russia using massive cyber attacks. We have also seen this in Sweden. The FRA pointed out several years ago that there are 10,000 cyber attacks per month from foreign power, note well! We have reason to look at this. As far as the cybersecurity centre is concerned, there are far too unclear responsibilities. Not even a place, a local, has been completed. So here we have a back lesson to do. It must be strengthened so that Sweden can be more secure and so that we can be better prepared for crises and, at worst, war. That's what this is about. Sweden must be rigged to cope with crises. Then we also have a much better chance of coping with a war at worst.
i-JUWqLe6hkVvKTqJAbNkdSb	Mr. Old President! My colleagues have so far presented in a very commendable way in the debate all the shortcomings and vulnerabilities that exist in terms of both crisis management and civil defence. But let me start with a reminder that civil defence in the event of war is not about living in the way we do today, whether in terms of what we put in our mouths or what medical care we might get. In war, civil defense is about survival and nothing else. Many have been concerned with the division of military and civil defence, with the Ministry of Defence handling military defence and with civil defence being under the Ministry of Justice. I am one of those who think that it should be under one and the same hat, namely under the department which today has total defence responsibility: the Ministry of Defence. However, I would like to remind you that even if it is collected, there will still be huge problems of coordination in the Government Office. Civil defence concerns all departments. It also affects a large number of our authorities. Mr. Old President! Until a few years ago, this report called the emergency preparedness of society. This was because, after the Cold War, when we reduced the volume of military defence, we completely abolished civil defence. For a long time we have not had a plan for how civil society and, for that matter, support to the Armed Forces should be sorted out in the event of war and conflict. During the Cold War Sweden looked very different. Today we live in the era of globalisation, just-in-times, digitalisation and outsourcing. It creates enormous challenges as the reconstruction of civil defence begins. The starting point was, as several have been concerned, the defence decision in 2015. It has now been seven years. It can be noted that the government has not yet managed to get management, organisation and responsibilities in place. There is no construction based on building a civil defence at the moment that we are now talking. According to information, it should be in place sometime during the autumn. It's not a day too soon. It is also rumoured that the proposals now being put forward by the government do not include the right to prescribe either for MSB as a national authority or for the civil defence sector authorities. So we should continue to work together instead of coordinating. I am now looking at Roger Richthoff, Mr President of the Age, who has made this point a number of times in this House, which I agree with. We must have authorities at both national and regional level that can actually take decisions on behalf of other authorities. Otherwise, I believe that we will not have a civil defence that befits our country. In 2004, support for civil society ceased to be a factor in military defence. That is why, Mr President-in-Office, when there was a fire in the forests of Lower Norrland some years ago, the military helicopters were not equipped with hooks for water bombing. When I last visited our helicopter unit Kallix in Luleå, I was told that even though you know that every summer you are going out and extinguishing forest fires, you must not even holiday plan for that business. In this way, support for civil society will be dimensioned. I believe that all taxpayers fully agree that the resources available to the state should be used for all purposes, military and civilian, in crisis and in war. Everything else is completely unreasonable. Mr. Old President! But it's my speaking time out. I'm in favour of reservation 31.
i-QbSapu4ZvcA7d6nixtuLRv	Mr. Old President! The images from Ukraine of the killed, injured and people who have been driven on the run leave none of us unmoved. Russia terror bombs residential areas, shopping malls, cultural institutions, BB's and medical facilities. It is an indiscriminate warfare where civilians are seen as legitimate targets and where rape is a weapon in the war. When we debate the report on civil defence and emergency preparedness today, we are talking about dead people in the city of Butja on the retina. It was people who were executed in cold blood, shot in the middle of the step, on a bicycle on the street or in their cars. We do it with the civilians, perhaps still children, in mind who are stuck under the steelworks in Mariupol. The real war, as it is now taking place in Ukraine, has few similarities with how an armed conflict may appear on a Powerpoint presentation in a cool meeting room. It is not marked by precision and respect for the laws of war. On the contrary, it is absolutely devastating and in every respect terrible. After ten weeks of Russian attack war, Mr. President of the Age, no further explanation is needed as to why civil defence is important and why the protection of civil and critical social functions is one of the cornerstones of robust total defence. The war in Ukraine reminds us that the whole of society must equip itself to face the horrors of war. It is a moral responsibility and part of the social contract. But it is also an important aspect in maintaining resistance and defence struggle. It's about feeling that there's something or someone to come home to, something to fight for, friends, family and children. Protecting the civilian population in the event of war is one of the main objectives of civil defence as formulated by the Riksdag. Another objective is to maintain the necessary supply. A third goal is to support the Swedish Armed Forces. So it is not a small thing we are talking about, especially as large parts of civil defence, as Allan Widman pointed out before me, was dismantled and dismantled after the end of the Cold War. Instead, it became civilian emergency preparedness that became the dimensional starting point for the work. It is important to have that understanding with you. This is important because there have been, and still are, major training needs. There is a need to establish common basic views between all the actors involved. There is also a need to set up an appropriate management and governance structure. These are the characteristics of the initial years of civil defence work. Mr. Old President! We are currently in the biggest investment in civil defence in modern times. In the coming years, the investment will increase gradually according to what has been announced in the bill for total defence. In total, there will be an increase of EUR 4.2 billion by the end of 2025. In addition, the budget proposal for the current year proposed an additional half a billion SEK per year from 2024 for the continued efforts to strengthen security of supply in the healthcare sector. In the Government's spring change budget, additional proposals for SEK 800 million are to strengthen civil defence in the short term, i.e. this year. These include measures for population protection that need to be upgraded, outdoor warning systems to be improved and more resources for municipalities and county boards, to name a few. In addition, the government has commissioned MSB to return with proposals for measures before the budget bill this autumn. It is both measures that can be brought forward and proposals for completely new measures that can be incorporated into the budget bill. This basis will be presented as early as next week on 10 May. In addition, to make some impact among major events in the field of civil defence, one can mention, among other things, the establishment of a new national cybersecurity centre and the establishment of a new authority for psychological defence. There are a number of ongoing studies on population protection, food security and the coordination of security of supply. We are expected to receive in the near future the sharp proposals for changes prompted by Barbro Holmberg's investigation into the responsibility and management of civil defence. This is expected to mean that Sweden will be divided into civil defence areas again and with sectoral authorities. These impacts may say something about the breadth of civil defence and the complexity. Unlike military defence, civil defence does not fall under an authority with a Director-General, a letter of regulation and a set of employees. It's about really bringing the whole community along. That work must now continue with intensified force. Mr. Old President! Of course, our goal should always be to do everything we can to prevent the war from coming. But if the worst thing were to happen, the efforts of society as a whole would be required to face the horrors of war. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-Bqt6NBsDm4vKdbXS7VvDUT	Mr. Old President! It was good to hear Mr Olsson conclude with the work being intensified, because that is something that we really have not seen in this parliamentary term. I'm thinking about this with time, it's taken so long. Sure, the questions are complex; I have to agree with that. But to investigate three times during a term of office whether to have a business council for total defence is incomprehensible to me even if it is a complex issue. My question is whether there is reason to believe that these issues have been buried in investigations because the government simply did not want to get to grips with the issues. You've been investigating and investigating. Member Kalle Olsson had a lot of investigations. Now they have also postponed on MSB, for example, to come back this autumn with proposals that should have already been decided upon. How come it takes so long, Kalle Olsson?
i-4RTiEjirQoqRRBiiqY5kDT	Mr. Old President! These are criticisms that we sometimes hear from opposition. I think it is a strange and, in fact, almost dishonest criticism. Just for information: all governments at all times always have to investigate and get to the bottom of the proposals they intend to put forward. That's how the government did Reinfeldt in its time. So did the government Persson in its time, and so does the current government. That's the deal. Just read the form of government. It shows that the government has that requirement. When we are talking about civil defence, it is, as we have been in here now, an area in which we dismantled virtually everything. We took everything away. Thankfully, we've decided to rebuild it. That's good. But something has happened during these 15 years, Mr. Old President. Something has happened since 1988 until now, 2022. It is not 15 years, I know it, but since we had the great civil defence once upon a time. Society has changed. Some major trends: digitalisation, internationalisation, privatisation. It is a completely changed society in so many different ways. Of course this needs to be investigated. Anything else would be very strange.
i-HyMEH4mgFPoSJMWrPvkURH	Mr. Old President! Well, if you don't go on pace, you don't go too fast. It is extremely important that our military and civil defence move in step. The Swedish Armed Forces support Barbro Holmberg's investigation in many ways but highlight a lot of things, including that when it comes to civil defence, it should be stated in a constitution how civil defence should support the armed forces. I wonder whether the Social Democrats and the government intend to make this clear. When there are complex issues, it is a lot about clarifying management and governance. The honourable Member himself was concerned about proper management and governance, which we are not getting today because we do not have clear management and governance. This can be seen from the decision on the cybersecurity centre, which does not have clear management and control. Several authorities are responsible and not a clear authority has the clear responsibility for managing and distributing the work. As I said in my speech, it is precisely during a crisis, when you really need clear leadership and structure, as we in Sweden have seen that we do not have it. Now that the Social Democrats are putting this forward and beating their chests because they are actually being shot at some time after seven years, I wonder: How do you improve management and governance? And when it comes to civil defence, will it be clarified so that it is stated in a constitution that it will also support the Armed Forces?
i-7Q2VBypo7NVLztyY1EBK1k	Mr. Old President! It is, of course, important that we have a structure for management and governance that everyone has to work on. Barbro Holmberg's investigation will now be materialized. The government has announced that it will present the sharp proposals for amendments in the near future. I am not going to comment on it until it has been presented from the government, but it is something that is very important. Much of this is about strengthening coordination between civil activities and defence activities and, not least, ensuring that geographical conditions match each other better.
i-XqGSAJsuPH1rgW6uYmk4yz	Mr. Old President! Then we are here again and note that society has largely been mismanaged on many important issues. Chaos is spreading in society. There's an increase in insecurity. We're talking about the civil defense, Mr. Old President, and about what emergency preparedness we're going to have and how it's going to develop. Member Allan Widman mentioned globalisation here earlier. He also mentioned the issue of just-in-time for the supply of food and other goods. I think we're gonna have to trade it for a note at all. That's how it is today. We should be very happy if anything comes out at all. If you don't think there is much worry or chaos in this, you can go back and look at what the Swedish National Audit Office said recently. I'll just take the headlines in their recent report, Mr. Old President. "Regional development policy – weak conditions for effective government action" – but what well knows the Swedish National Audit Office. 中 Unclear roles and responsibilities make it difficult for policy to implement – does it matter, Mr President-in-Office, for our preparedness for crisis? Yes, I think it has. The governance of regions and authorities is often short-term and unclear.How can it be right when you try to get things right in society? In addition, the Swedish National Audit Office writes:"The government's performance reporting has been developed but it is difficult to say what politics leads to" – absolutely incredible! "Political orientation has changed more than its content and well-known challenges persist" – the popular word challenge, Mr. Age President, which is used more and more instead of problems. How can it be wrong? Then there are plenty of recommendations. But this report from the Swedish National Audit Office, which came recently, states the basis for the fact that it does not work in society. I will say a few words about Mr Widman. You can talk about people with names if you have something positive to say. We've had a lot of hits here, Allan Widman and I. I will not forget to say that I believe that Allan Widman is one of the most knowledgeable in the field of defence. His understanding time and again that the money and the budget allocated are not enough has been very early, forward-looking and competent. Then we've had a lot of trouble, but I want this to be said now that Allan Widman has said he's quitting. I have also said that – I already said in 2018 that this will be my last period, and I have received support for this to different extents. Very well! To get an effective investment for the billions that we are now putting on this requires a few things that are fundamental. We can talk about that we should invest here, that we should invest in food. Sure, but what's essential for it to work? In my opinion, that is leadership. The leadership of Sweden must be strengthened. By leadership, I mean competence and knowledge and ability. How, then, is it linked to the authorities we have? Here we have to change completely and stop appointing heads of government because of the party book, as we are doing now. An example of this: If you read the Constitution – which we all do before we fall asleep in the evening – you can see that it says among other things that the most competent official should be appointed. Is that so, Mr. Old President? You don't have to answer me. I don't think that's the case. It is true that the former MSB manager was met quite correctly, perhaps one considers. He was also head of the police, the Finnish Immigration Service and the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. It is a brilliant example of how to appoint managers by party book. This has to change. The managers must be appointed according to leadership and competence, as I just said, otherwise it will never work well. When you do this, you also have to think about the role of MSB, Mr. Age President. More and more people are now beginning to say that this must be coordinated. Each authority has its own drain pipe – it has its responsibilities. But no one's coordinating the operation. No one takes command and distributes the resources that we are about to strengthen. These are the basic and most important things to get this society back on its feet. By the way, Mr. Old President, I'm in favour of reservation 2. Another very important area that I would like to highlight is trust in our authorities. In my opinion and in the opinion of many people, an EU proposal that sails in here, in the shadow of everything else, will restrict and strangle alternative media, such as Web TV and New Times. You don't have to like them, but where does freedom of speech go? We're talking about a book that burns. It's freedom of speech. But alternative media? We need to pay attention to this law. You want to force it-giants to read this! – to remove criticism of those in power, which I am engaged in now. If I do it in a newspaper or any other forum, I may be suspended. These are very serious things, which are about to sail in from the globalists. We have to react. This will be on the table soon; decisions have been taken in the EU Commission. With regard to hate speech and misinformation, we can take an example of something that, in my opinion, is not SD's in this case, is misinformation. It was, in the past, about coordination, the SD policy that we have pursued and will pursue as long as we have motions on this. But this is something else. From the Swedish Public Health Agency you say this, without there being any debate: The vaccine against covid-19 gives – read this for yourself! – a good protection against serious illness and death. Refill doses are important. Pregnant animals are recommended to be vaccinated as there is no evidence of an effect on either the mother or the foetus. It's an approved vaccine – it's not; it's a lie. This is particularly serious. Now I have no one here to debate against, but they might come back in another forum so we can have a debate. It is not an approved vaccine but a conditional vaccine. The result should be returned. It's a condition. If you read the American equivalent you can see that it is necessary and nothing else. This is really serious, I think. Can we not trust our authorities to provide relevant information on this so that we adults can make decisions? I am inoculating myself; you are not. But where is the debate? Where are the debaters, Mr. Old President? In state television, you call in a drug salesman who is considered an expert and gets to talk to the vaccine. He may be right, but where's the other side? There are hundreds of scientists and immunologists, even Pfizer's own scientists, who say no to this. The side effects are not reported. There are hundreds of thousands of people in Europe who have serious side effects. In Sweden they are well ten thousand now. But there are no known side effects. Very strange! This is serious, I think. I mentioned the EU law here. I'll give you a summary. I'll get what we think. Now I'm back on SD policy again. I made a digression a moment ago about what I personally think, but now I am back in the policy of the motions, Mr President-in-Office. It is about leadership and coordination. Civil service obligations are to be introduced. We have been saying this for many years now, and that is still the case. It is about civil protection and ammunition clearance – there are many parts of civil service that can be used. Drift defence is to return, an operational defence that can reinforce resources in the event of damage to power stations or whatever you want. In the past, they had knowledge of how to set them up, and it's still there, if you use that knowledge, Mr. President of the Age. It's getting a little older now, so you might think there's not much to get. All this knowledge is available. The managers who led these operations are still there, but the people I'm talking to have never ever been asked: Can you come in and tell me what it was like to bring out your plan that you had? This is also a great shortcoming; something has to be done about that. Emergency police have been talking about since 2014, and Mikael Jansson before me. This is also very important. Back to the other questions. One person you can read is John J. Mearsheimer. He describes this very well. You can listen to that professor and analyst at the University of Chicago. He describes these questions a little more in-depth. You can read it. I have said before that the greatest threat to our freedom in Sweden, Mr. President of the Age, is within the borders of the country. I have said before that, in my opinion, not that of SD, we are in a low-intensity civil war. But I get very little criticism nowadays, when I repeat it. I wonder why. Maybe I should take another step. It's about the biggest threat, as I said. Who's in charge? Ask yourselves the question. Who is responsible for the mass rapes in Sweden? Who is responsible for the honour-related crimes that occur in Sweden? Yes, they are due to the massive mass immigration from MENA countries and Africa. That's what every cop and every person out there knows. But what are you doing? ( AGESPRESIDENT: I request that the honourable Member stick to the subject. ) Then I'll do it as a conclusion. Actually, the biggest threat is not what I just said, it's the parish in here. Politicians are the greatest threat to our freedom and our way of living in Sweden.
i-WmBjSp9ud9Lc7rEWcpQSYo	Mr. Old President! I have now listened to the debate on civil defence and emergency preparedness. For the reasons set out above, I would just like to remind you that we must also think of a different kind of defence against another type of attacker and must not forget to use spirit in all the different contexts, including here in the speaker's chair. Mr. Old President! The Green Party has submitted a committee motion called Civil Defense and Emergency Preparedness. There is much that is important to strengthen in civil defence and crisis preparedness in order for our society to be more resilient, more resilient. We have ongoing climate change and urgent work on climate adaptation is needed in many places in our country. Water supply and food supply are just two examples among many. In order to increase supply capacity, it is necessary for Swedish agriculture to be able to operate without import of fuels and inputs. Healthcare needs to be strengthened, and medical supplies, pharmaceuticals, spare parts and fuel are examples of goods that need to be in stock in order for society to have time to switch in the event of disrupted trade. Current stockholding is not sufficiently extensive and accountability is unclear. Some stockpiling needs to take place centrally, but stocks must also be close to people and businesses. That is why all parts of the public sector need to cooperate with the business community on the stockpiling of goods that are critical to our supply. This was just a few downbeats in our extensive motion, Mr. Old President. The Green Party is clear that it is very important that efforts to strengthen civil defence are speeded up considerably. Finally, we obviously support all our requests, such as the idea that the handling of firecrackers, rockets and fireworks should be banned for private individuals. But in order to gain time, I only ask for reservation number 19.
i-GhfN7sruwFtomh1KcSA3kE	Mr. Old President! The Committee on Social Affairs has a great deal of commitment to issues relating to care for the elderly. We have contributed to both increased resources and demands that the money be used for the care of the elderly. We have also, following the government's proposal, decided that nurse should be a protected professional title. Furthermore, the committee has asked the government to ensure that staff in the care of the elderly have sufficient knowledge of the Swedish language. Today, we are dealing with a new proposal from the Government, which is based on the inquiry led by Mr Barbro Westerholm, Member of Parliament. Barbro will soon be in the speaker's chair, and if Parliament's rules had not been as they are, she should have been the first to speak today, I think. I am pleased that the investigation was carried out and that today we have a good proposal to make. Mr. Old President! It is about everyone who has home care having the right to a permanent care contact. A assistant nurse should be able to be the permanent care contact to a person who has home care. It offers many advantages, we believe the Christian Democrats, mainly for those who have home care and through the permanent care contact, which of course must be a named person, can have continuity and a holistic view. This is something that is often lost when there is a high turnover of staff, not least when you need help. The proposal is also an improvement for staff, who will have improved working conditions when they have the opportunity to assume overall responsibility, and continuity can be promoted. Through the proposal for a permanent care contact, a named person who can take care of both qualified care contacts and medical tasks and have an increased responsibility for coordinating and planning home care interventions, this can mean a boost both for those who receive help from the home care service and for the staff who work there and are the permanent care contact. It will therefore be good for those who need home care, and it will improve working conditions and the working environment if you get the chance to be the permanent care contact. Mr. Old President! As with all reforms, it is necessary to follow up the decisions: does everyone have the right to a permanent care contact, and how does it work for the staff? These are questions that we need to ask ourselves in a while. That is why I would like to support Amendment No 7, which deals with the evaluation of legislation. We don't do it too often. Regrettably, it has been recurrent that legislative decisions are taken but then have no effect. This must not happen either this time or any other time. That is why the proposal for monitoring and evaluation is urgent. We Christian Democrats want this to be good, and that is why we want to know how it goes. Mr. Old President! Elderly care needs more resources to improve working conditions and medical care. The assistant nurse is the base of care for the elderly, and it is necessary that the assistant nurse has now become a protected professional title, so that we know that the basic staff have sufficient competence. Every employer is also obliged, we believe, to ensure that staff receive continuous training and the possibility of further training. It enhances quality and improves working conditions. The committee has previously called on the government to ensure that there is a medical officer for rehabilitation in each municipality, a MAR. It is also an important piece of the puzzle in the care of the elderly. Hopefully, the Elderly Care Investigation will contribute with proposals that strengthen elderly care. The right to a fixed care contact will be an important piece of the puzzle in an even better care for the elderly. Mr. Old President! It should be pointed out that we have good care for the elderly. It is jointly financed, and care for the elderly ensures that people are helped with things they cannot cope with. The decision we are going to take in this House this afternoon on the right to permanent care will contribute to better and dignified care for the elderly. Thank you very much, Mr Westerholm, for your work on the investigation, which makes a good decision today!
i-RxY5Kh1KkG54FWAPd5Ubkb	Mr. Old President! Today we are dealing with the committee's report on a permanent home care contact. First of all, I would like to endorse our reservation, number one. The bill proposes, among other things, new provisions in the Social Services Act requiring a person with home care services to be offered a permanent care contact. The fixed care contact shall meet the individual's needs for security, continuity, personalised care and coordination. Mr. Old President! We agree – in part. When it comes to the government's proposal that only the assistant nurse should be able to be appointed as permanent care contact, we have a broader and more constructive proposal. I'll get back to you on that. To everyone's delight, more and more people are becoming more and more year-rich. In the next ten years, the number of people over 80 will increase. Unfortunately, not everyone is healthy but suffers from illness and needs help and support. At the same time, a lot of people younger than 65 also need and are entitled to home help. According to the National Board of Health and Welfare and the Swedish Municipalities and Regions, home health care accounts for about half of all care beds in the country. This together creates an increasing pressure. We Moderates give priority to strengthening people's influence over their own care. The most ill and fragile need a more coherent and coordinated care. We believe that the organization should take place from the perspective of the affected person. The starting point should be security, humanity and empathy. Older people, sometimes multisick, and people with chronic diseases, should also have safe care and receive good care. All in all, this leads to more complex needs being created, and the development allows more and more advanced healthcare to be provided at home. This places demands on employees' competence, on greater ability to cooperate more with patients and on collaboration with other actors around the patient. After all, people have a great knowledge of their life, needs and illness. It shall be valued and used. Here, close relatives also have an important role, and their participation is governed by the care provider's wishes and the ability of the close relatives. The need for coordination and continuity is extensive and will increase rather than decrease. Mr. Old President! We can sometimes see media reports that a person with a right to home help is forced to meet a lot of different people from home care at home. This is often not desirable and the opposite of continuity. We see that the Government's proposals will not be sufficient, and we want to see an improvement. Several heavy consultation bodies, both public and private, do not see any advantage in specifying in legislation that only one specific professional group and professional title should be able to form a permanent care contact in the home service. There are good examples of municipalities that have succeeded in personal continuity and where the activities were organised in interprofessional teams, for example. Mr. Old President! In order for there to be no doubt: We Moderates hold the assistant nurse's role, responsibility and efforts in the care and care very high. It's an important position. Over the last few years, we have perhaps been able to see in a particularly clear way how important it is. However, we see that the Government's proposal means a restriction and an increased burden on already burdened nurses, which, moreover, is far too few. A permanent care contact is part of a successful work in cross-professional teams, which helps to increase continuity and quality. We Moderates see it as natural that the activities and the profession best decide this and take detailed decisions on the most appropriate position for the permanent care contact in each individual case. We also welcome the development of support and guidance for decisions. Mr. Old President! Since we Moderates want to create the best possible conditions, with high quality and continuity so that those who need home care are visited by as few people as possible, we believe that those of the assistant nurse's colleagues who have a regulated professional title in healthcare and care should also be appointed as a permanent care contact.
i-ECTjkNzKi1X4HtAXoSZEZv	Mr. Old President! Older care is something that has been very debated in recent years and unfortunately not in a very good context. Therefore, the Swedish Democrats largely welcome the Government's proposal for a permanent care contact in the home care service. The proposal is good for many reasons. This can, among other things, address the problem of lack of competence and continuity in the number of home care workers faced by a care provider. It is high time we put quality requirements on care for the elderly, so that the right to a dignified old age is strengthened. The business has become more and more complex. More and more advanced health care is provided by the home service. We are of the opinion that close contact with care could lead to positive developments in the quality of care. The proposal, which we are considering today, is that the home care provider should also be offered a permanent care contact if it is not deemed to be clearly unnecessary. It is precisely that last little bit – obviously unneeded – that we would like to remove. We believe that everyone should be offered a permanent care contact. Therefore, I take the opportunity to ask for the approval of reservation 2, before forgetting it. For us, it is an equality issue that everyone gets the same offer. This does not automatically mean that everyone feels a need and that everyone accepts that offer. But they must all have been given the same conditions. We think that's a good thing. We also think it is incredibly important. Not least from an equality perspective, it is perfectly reasonable that everyone who has home care services should also be offered a permanent care contact. The inspection of care is in the same line and believes that all those who have been granted home care should be offered a permanent care contact – this in order to promote an equal social service in which people with equal needs are guaranteed the same offer. Mr. Old President! We see risks in that the offer of a permanent care contact may become a matter of priority and assessment that may vary across the country, although the National Board of Health and Welfare will produce guidance material. It is not often, but I very much hope that we are wrong this time and that the main rule is that one should be offered a firm care contact and that the space for departure from this will be very limited. With regard to the question of whether only those with the professional title of assistant nurse should be eligible for permanent care contact, we agree with that. If we want to achieve increased competence and quality in home care, it is important that we ensure that staff with both training and professional competence are given ambition and motivation to remain in the profession and in the area. There is therefore a need for both incentives for skills development and wage steps, and we see that the permanent care contact could be part of achieving this. At the same time, as I began by saying, there are more and more elderly people staying in their homes longer, which often leads to more and more advanced medical care being provided via the home service. This requires the competence of the person appointed as care contact so that he can carry out his work safely and safely. Therefore, we think it is important that only those with the professional title assistant nurse should be able to be appointed as care contact. Assessing the outcome of the legislative changes decided upon is an incredibly important measure to ensure that the decisions fulfil their purpose. The National Board of Health and Welfare has been tasked with investigating the data and statistics needed to carry out an evaluation, and that task must be reported by 31 August 2023. But we want to be a little more specific. We believe that the National Board of Health and Welfare should return with a final evaluation no later than three years after the Act has entered into force, so that no later than three years after the Act there is a final evaluation on how the regulations and the new law are being complied with and whether the work of a firm care contact has contributed to continuity, to security, to personalised care and to coordination. More years should not go between a decision and an evaluation. In conclusion, I can say that this is a good proposal, which we broadly support. It is, as I have explained, some changes and additions that we would like to see. But on the whole, we are very pleased with this. Once again, I am in favour of reservation 2.
i-6wZDabGRuxd8xE98f8jCCS	Madam President, I would like I think I've run through all three titles during this morning's debates. In this debate today, I am retiring on the report of the Committee on Social Affairs. That is why it will be a very brief speech on this very important subject. On behalf of the Left Party, I would like to endorse reservation number 6. The Left Party believes that care and care in home care should be organised in such a way that the care provider is visited by as few people as possible, while at the same time strengthening the medical competence of each individual care provider, as well as access to rehabilitation services. We therefore believe that the government should take the initiative in steering against cross-professional teams around home care providers.
i-FT5KSLpxkuahrqUyX4rFNt	Madam President, I would like If you are to feel safe when your health is failing or when you, as an elderly person, need a little help with the day-to-day, you need to know who you can call or seek help from when needed and that the person who comes has the right skills. Many relatives and people who need help from the home care service do not know who to contact at home, who knows about the person's health or needs. There are so many different people who often visit the person who needs help. There are also great variations in the skills of those who help. The needs for home care vary according to each individual. Some have only an alarm or a few occasional visits a day or a week. Others have visits several times every day and even at night. Madam President, I would like Now we are introducing a permanent care contact this summer. The home care provider should be offered a permanent care contact, unless it is obvious that the person does not need it– but there should be exceptions. The fixed care contact shall be named and shall ensure the individual's need for security, continuity and personalised care and shall coordinate the deployment of home care interventions. The requirement for permanent care contact will apply from 1 July 2022. From next summer, namely 1 July 2023, the requirement is that the person appointed as a permanent care contact should have the professional title assistant. We have previously taken a decision in Parliament to protect the professional title of nurses. That decision will take effect from next summer. There will be some transitional rules for the protected professional title assistant. There will also be a period of time in which permanent nurses can continue to work until their certificate is available and any additional training and knowledge has been completed. The right skills are important to provide help and also see changes in the person who has help. Madam President, I would like Ten years ago, the National Board of Health and Welfare issued general advice on basic knowledge of staff working in social services care for the elderly. It makes it clear that staff should have knowledge and skills to handle communication, regulation, normal ageing, diseases of ageing, home care, end-of-life care, health care and more. These are high demands for competence – rightly so. When you stop and think about this advice, which has been around for ten years, I get worried about my loved ones who are a little older. Employers and we politicians have not worked more with competence development and good personnel recruitment so that all staff have the right skills or get the right skills. When I meet elderly care staff, they often testify that the employer calls in the staff at short notice, and those called in do not have the right skills for this important job. Madam President, I would like This isn't really okay. Nevertheless, I maintain that we have very competent staff who are doing a fantastic job on the basis of the conditions they get. But much is going on to improve and develop health care and care. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has been tasked with developing guidance to ensure competence, quality and safety in healthcare and care in order to implement the reform. The National Board of Health and Welfare is also working on the establishment of the National Centre of Skills for Elderly Care, which will become a hub for older people. The Swedish National Board of Education has been tasked with providing efforts to improve knowledge of the Swedish language among employees in elderly care. An investigator has been commissioned to investigate and propose an elderly care law, which will be reported this summer. During this term of office, historic efforts have also been made on welfare, and care for the elderly has received important and necessary supplements. That is extremely pleasing. In 2015 – 2018, SEK 7 billion was allocated to increase staffing in elderly care. It's over 19,000 year-olds. That's about 4,800 a year. We know that this is not always enough because there are retirements and some are sick. In 2020, the Eldercare Lift initiative was introduced. New and existing staff are given the opportunity to receive training on paid working hours. Later, the initiative was further extended to train first-line managers and to other skills-enhancing education in health and social care. At the moment, the Government Office is preparing the Vilja report – A sustainable supply of skills in health care and care for the elderly. There is a lot going on, and there are many initiatives that should have been made and that would be very welcome. This improves both for the staff and for those who need help from the home service. Madam President, I would like We Social Democrats are in favour of the proposal in the report.
i-UPvpkJN254cXuubZCVAKcq	Madam President, I would like The purpose of home care is to facilitate and enable people's daily living in their own home – and in many cases to stay in their own home. The needs of home care providers are often complex and extensive, which places special demands on the competence of the person appointed as a permanent care contact to perform his/her work safely and safely. At the same time, a lack of continuity of staff today is a recurring problem in home care. In addition, many relatives feel that they need to take a large responsibility for contacts with different occupational groups around the care provider. Madam President, I would like The Center Party supports the committee's proposal in the report that the Riksdag should adopt the Government's proposal for a law amending the Social Services Act. The proposal means that the home care provider should be offered a permanent care contact, unless it is deemed to be manifestly unneeded. This expression is clearly unnecessary and aims to highlight the general rule, i.e. that the individual should be offered a permanent care contact and that the scope for departure from that obligation is very limited. A fixed care contact should also help to break the isolation and feeling of loneliness of the care provider. According to the proposal, the provision for the home care provider to be offered a permanent care contact shall enter into force on 1 July 2022. The Government's proposal also means that only those who have proof of the right to use the professional title assistant should be eligible for permanent care contact. By introducing a protected professional title for assistant nurses, the competence of the professional group shall be ensured and the quality and safety of care and care maintained. When it comes to exercising on language requirements in the home care service, the National Board of Health and Welfare has recently presented the task of setting up a competence centre at the authority to support the further development of care for the elderly. In addition, the National Board of Health and Welfare has been tasked with developing language assessment support for elderly care activities. The Center Party believes that language is an incredibly important factor in home care as well. We are therefore in favour of the National Board of Health and Welfare looking at the issue. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations.
i-Hw6frLX4yLALwMBrCprBVA	Madam President, I would like I am pleased to be able to support the proposal in this report. Thank you for your opening words, Acko! This has felt like a very meaningful investigation. I was commissioned to carry it out together with Helene Limén, loaned from the Riksdag and currently present up in the gallery, and Sayran Khayati, loaned from the National Board of Health and Welfare. I got real professionals to support this work. This is part of the improvements we make to care for the elderly. The elderly care lift has been mentioned, and it is about people working in the care sector being able to increase their knowledge and gain better skills and the opportunity to carry out the really very complicated and difficult tasks of care for the elderly. We have also been given a protected professional title for nurses – this decision has been made here in Parliament – which means that you get a better uniformity in the training of nurses. they acquire the skills required for the mission; A permanent care contact has existed in 80 per cent of our municipalities, but in many municipalities it has only been a text on one piece of paper and not a real implementation. We went through 20 municipalities in different directions, of different sizes and so on. D if you had a firm care contact worthy of the name, we found that it was better for the care provider and for relatives – and that it was much better for the care provider, i.e. the assistant nurse who worked in this business. What is required here is that you go to the care provider continuously, that you also meet relatives when they exist and that you follow the course of health development. It is about being able to interact with other care providers who are connected to the care provider. This can be about home health care, which is now growing rapidly in Sweden; so jukvård moves out from the hospitals to the caretakers' bedchamber, kitchen and living room. After all, it requires something quite different from before, when many were cared for in hospitals. It is therefore a collaboration function to make it work so that it is correct in time. The possibility of having several occupational groups working as permanent care contacts has been addressed. We had long discussions in the reference groups we had in support of our work, and we concluded that the nurses are most at hand. These are used for fixed care contact in the Netherlands – but they do not have nurses in the same way as we do in Sweden. We also found that the training that the nurses will now receive is well adapted to the needs. Nurses are lacking in many areas, and it is therefore more appropriate that they work as nurses. It may be that some of them become firm care or healthcare contacts as it suffers, because I see that the trend is going in the direction that we can have the same needs in health care. Then the fixed care contact in the home care service and in home care will have to hook the arm in a good way. The question has also been raised whether not everyone should be offered this. We found in our discussions that some would almost be supported by being viewed as someone who needs a firm care contact. It's about people who have clean cleaning. After all, more people take it via grid, so I see that the number of people who have only cleaning will decrease quite sharply in the long term. Six minutes' speaking time is fast, but I would like to conclude with the following: Working in home care is not an easy job. It is a single job that requires competence, knowledge, ability to recognize and knowledge about where to turn if acute events of different kinds occur. One should be able to communicate well with relatives. You should feel like you're part of a trio, a team. It is the care provider, the care provider – i.e. the assistant nurse – and relatives. It is the na trio that can make all three categories feel joy and security and know what can be done. In this way, people should dare to grow old, and in this way they should upgrade their view of home work. It's a qualified job.
i-VXiYkEZDKcUCQTTDvCT8dH	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by calling for the approval of reservations 2 and 3, and I have done so. This debate on the report is therefore about the possibility of imposing a ban on access to bathing facilities and libraries. I am pleased that there is quite a lot of support for this in Parliament, Madam President. Nevertheless, it is important to be careful to restrict people's rights and freedoms, such as freedom of movement. That is not to be taken lightly. We are proposing this in this particular case, but it is because we make the assessment that it is necessary both to protect the right of other visitors to safety and a good experience and to provide staff with a safe and good working environment, Madam President. The law on access bans is in line with the law that has been in force for shops for a year. There has been little time to develop any practice on the basis of that law, and once this is done together, we will have to assess whether the possibility of a ban on access needs to be changed. In the meantime, it is important that this should work and that we ensure that, as far as possible, existing tools are used. We shall ensure that this is used as little as possible, because it cannot be in anyone's interest to restrict people's freedom of movement. However, where the assessment is made that they are needed, you should be able to use it for the benefit of other visitors and for the benefit of the staff. This applies, of course, particularly to libraries, which have a special status. According to the current Library Act, libraries are to work towards the development of democratic society, both by contributing to the provision of knowledge and by contributing to the free formation of opinions. The business should also, as you write, be accessible to everyone. If the activity is to be accessible to everyone, Madam President, it must sometimes also be possible to have a ban on access for people who are actually at risk of disrupting the activity and, above all, to interfere with other people's ability to take part in the activity. It may seem hard for such an important activity that a stricter assessment is made, Madam President, but there is also the possibility that, if you learn your lesson from the library where you have a ban on access, visit others or do it digitally. Madam President, I would like To be brief, this law is needed. Care should be taken to limit people's freedom of movement. It is also important to be restrictive, but when – and if – this is needed one should be able to do so. As I said, we will follow up on these changes. Should it turn out that they are not achieving their purpose, Madam President, we are prepared to make the necessary changes. In the light of these considerations, I support reservation 2 and reservation 3.
i-6B2h6F3ZQ938NyPMMokNS1	Madam President, I would like Let me tell you about a visit I made to an Ica store in 2015. The Ica dealer is named Per and runs the store in Sergels torg. This is a place that has been very exposed to crime over the years and that sometimes still is, especially at certain times of the day. It's a very good place to have a shop. There are many who pass it every day, and it is very practical for many to be able to shop on the way home, on their way to work, on their way to school or on their way to other things that they pass Sergels square for. It is a central location in Stockholm. Sweden's traders and entrepreneurs are extremely skilled. They put a lot of work into creating value for themselves, for employees, for customers and for suppliers. They play an extremely important role in the entire construction of Swedish society. But they are threatened by different things. High taxes can be one thing; we have discussed and debated this many times in this House. Another thing is their crime exposure. Per showed me a large number of complaints – closed notifications – about thefts in his shop that nothing is done about. They feel powerless and unjust. They feel that the police and society do not take their vulnerability seriously. Per has other things to do over the day than wrestle with thieves who want to steal from his shop. This made me think of a lot of policy measures that could be developed to get to grips with this. One of the proposals resulting from this visit is something that we are partly concerned with today: access bans to shops. I also had a couple of other bona fide ideas that would certainly be good but that have not yet received a majority in the Swedish Parliament. One of these is to have a simplified system of fines where the trader can directly obtain a fine for a thief caught in the act and that the fine falls to the trader himself, so that it is worth the trouble to actually get hold of this. Too many entrepreneurs don't have time. They're making a crappy calculation-- they have a job to do, and they can't sit around and wait until the cops come. The possibility that they receive compensation or that someone is convicted of the crime is in principle non-existent. Too many investigations into these crimes are closed. It is therefore important to proceed with the access ban in stores, so that those who repeated and seriously misbehave and abuse their right to be in the store can be ported. Some time after this exercise was presented – it was during the parliamentary year 2016/17, if I do not remember wrong – there was a proposal. It was far too late, one might think, but on 1 March last year it came into force. Since then, this has been tried in various parts of the country. It has not yet been made to function fully; it certainly needs to be established a routine and a habit for prosecutors to deal with this kind of petition. However, I am convinced that there will be a crystallisation of a regime in which more people will be given this kind of ban on contact. The Alliance government, in which I was partly involved, tried to ban access but failed technically at that time. We can learn something from that, Madam President: it is not enough to have a good idea or something that sounds good, but also to have a legal solution that works. For this is not entirely straightforward matter. The right to move freely in society is protected by the Constitution. There is strong protection; it can only be lifted for very good reasons. Therefore, such restrictions cannot — or should — be casually imposed. However, we do so in these cases because we think it is necessary. Now some want to move on and change this law already a year after it was introduced. I think that this issue is too early. Of course, we should monitor this very closely and make sure it works. If it doesn't work, the Center Party and I are absolutely prepared to develop the law. However, one important thing for all law enforcement agencies is that they have long-term opportunities to work. We cannot change the law every year, but they must have time to work on new routines according to the new conditions that exist. That is why I think the question is too early. Another reservation that exists, which I will admit I found quite interesting in the first place, is the Left Party's proposal to have socionomists in place in the libraries. Then I thought another lap, Madam President. I thought libraries should be libraries. One of the reasons I landed in that conclusion was a visit that I, along with other center parties, made to Rinkeby School here in Stockholm. I got an important insight from there. They were a little tired of everyone who would come in and help, so to speak, to make sure that there was good order and that there were a lot of different things that the youth could do. They turned over the steak and asked themselves what is their core mission. The core mission is to teach children things. They focused on it, Madam President, and they have done quite well with it. They have improved their results tremendously, and there are other positive side-effects of this. Among other things, this is the municipal school throughout Stockholm where the students feel the most secure, and this is in an area that is considered to be vulnerable and that we often talk about in completely different contexts. It is impressive, but it is also an important indication of how extremely important it is for each one to focus on the task that is most important to it. There was news today that school results have improved precisely in the affected areas. The proportion of comprehensive school graduates with upper secondary school qualifications has increased from 70 to 77 per cent. It may seem a small increase, Madam President, but it is an extremely important increase. We know from research how extremely important it is to succeed in school and then succeed in life and, above all, not to develop crime. This is a very welcome development, and I hope that this can be further improved.
i-S4xVH7XSk2jtKazbmopPfP	Madam President, I would like The Government proposes in its proposal that an opportunity be introduced to decide on a ban on access to bathing facilities and libraries. We in the Left Party believe that this is not a good proposal, because we believe that it will be difficult to implement the proposal in practice and that it may constitute an unsafe working environment for the employees of bathhouses and libraries. I fully understand the discomfort that staff and other visitors may experience if a person behaves threateningly or harasses his surroundings, and it is by no means okay for a person to touch the hot tub or behave inappropriately in the shower at a bath house. If you commit a crime, it must be reported to the police, no matter where the crime is committed. It is already possible to ensure that people do not have access through practical arrangements, such as the provision of surveillance of the entrance to a bathing facility. That is something that is also in the bill. The right to move freely is constitutionally protected, and to restrict such a right requires very strong reasons. We in the Left Party believe that the interference in the individual's right to move freely as a ban on access is disproportionate to the problems it intends to solve. It is also unclear whether in practice the access ban will really increase the safety of visitors and improve the working environment for employees. The proposal risks making staff even more vulnerable to harassment, threats and violence if it is argued that a particular person is not welcome due to the fact that they are subject to an access ban. This creates a problematic working environment, as librarians and bathhouse employees are not trained to deal with potentially violent people. The expulsion of a person who wants to create problems requires the summoning of police or security guards. This is also being done today. Madam President, I would like A library is a special place. It's also a place where there's a lot of trouble going on. But it's not just any place. Folkbildning and public libraries belong to the foundations of a democratic society. Our public libraries are meeting places that are open to everyone and have a wide range of activities. According to a survey from SVT's Cultural News, a majority of the library managers at the country's largest city library are sceptical about the government's proposal to ban access for noisy visitors. A large part of the disorder that occurs in libraries is linked to social vulnerability. It is about visitors who are homeless, people in addiction and people who suffer from mental illness. Often they have a difficult life situation. To get to grips with this problem, you can do as Stockholm City Library. There, a social worker has been hired to work outreach towards the messy people who come to the library, mentor and guide staff in how to handle difficult and messy situations and network with other actors, such as social services and voluntary organisations. I welcome the reasoning of Johan Hedin and the Center Party. The Left Party's proposal on socionomics has been looked at. I can also fully understand the arguments that the clean-up of schools, libraries and so on is something that is desirable. But we know that libraries are places that a lot of people gather around. To get on with helping people who visit libraries, often to get support and help in life, I think socionomists would make a good contribution. It would work better than introducing a ban on access, which we know will be rather difficult to deal with. Madam President, I would like What is constitutionally protected and not and how the parties stand for it is something that changes a little. One example is the right-wing provocateur Paludan, who applied for permission to demonstrate. After that, riots took place during the Easter weekend. The deputy party leader of the Moderates then felt that he would definitely be allowed to demonstrate again, because he has a constitutionally protected right to do so. But when it comes to the constitutionally protected right to move freely in society and to be at the library, for example, the Moderates reason in a completely different way. You can certainly make similar comparisons with the Left Party where we are equally inconsistent. In conclusion, I would like to say that it is not easy how we should relate to the Constitution when it comes to where people should be and when. I request the approval of Amendment No 1 by the Left Party.
i-P6XYxV73xWDo98j4i46oqb	Madam President, I would like Swimming pools and libraries are important meeting places where people meet for exercise, knowledge or a moment of recovery. In particular, libraries are important for children and young people who want to find a quiet place for homework and schoolwork outside the home. The safety of visiting the library or swimming pool is crucial for everyone to feel welcome there. Unfortunately, reports of disorder and sexual harassment in these environments have been common in recent years. The Crime Prevention Council has mapped the occurrence of crimes and disorder in swimming pools and libraries. The survey shows that most libraries and swimming pools report that crime and disorder of order create insecurity and adversely affect the operation. For many libraries and swimming pools, there are relatively few and mild events. However, in some places the disturbances occur more frequently and affect the staff's working environment and the visitors' satisfaction is negative. Madam President, I would like Although tolerance to people's differences needs to be great, it cannot be accepted that some people seriously disrupt order or create insecurity for other visitors. Therefore, access bans on persons who commit crimes, harass or cause serious disorder of order, along with other measures, can help ensure that swimming pools and libraries can be safe places for everyone. When the Riksdag decided in January 2021 on a new Act prohibiting access to stores, the Riksdag again issued an announcement to the Government to come back with a proposal that allows for a decision on a ban on access to swimming pools and libraries. As the issue was investigated and the Crime Prevention Council, on behalf of the Government, had already carried out a survey of disorder and crimes at swimming pools and libraries, we expected the government to return as soon as possible. Unfortunately, it has taken 15 months before we can now take the next step, which enables decisions on access bans to swimming pools and libraries as well. While we welcome the fact that the government is finally returning to Parliament, there is reason to be surprised that at the same time the government is not taking the opportunity to correct the shortcomings that have been shown in the rules on access bans to stores. With regard to the Act on the Prohibition of Access to Stores, which has now been in force for more than a year, it has been shown that prosecutors set very high standards for deciding on a ban on access. The law has therefore not been applied to the extent expected by many traders. Only 35% of applications are granted. There is a system error here that the government should have taken the opportunity to correct when the law is now being amended. We Moderates have drawn attention to this in our follow-up motion, in which we propose that the government should come back with proposals for a regime allowing prosecutors to issue decisions on access bans in more situations than today. This has also been supported by a majority in the committee. However, as the parties on the left – the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Green Party and the Left Party – oppose this, unfortunately, the proposal for an announcement will probably fall into the Chamber. Madam President, I would like As in the case of shops, the proposal proposes that a person should be prohibited from access to a bathing facility or a library if there is a risk, due to special circumstances, that he or she will commit an on-site crime. It is also proposed that the risk of a person seriously harassing someone on the ground may lead to a ban on access. For libraries, it is also proposed that access bans be updated if there is a risk, due to special circumstances, that someone will significantly disrupt the operation. However, people who engage in disrupting activities also pose a problem for bathing facilities and shops. For example, people who repeatedly violate the rules of order or safety in a bathing facility or repeatedly enter shops and behave in such a way as to adversely affect the safety of customers. In addition to the negative effects on the safety of visitors and customers as well as the working environment of employees, the disruptions, if they lead to the avoidance of visitors and customers, may also lead to financial damage to the operator. We therefore believe that the rules that apply to libraries, that also significant disruptions of order can form the basis for decisions on access bans, should also apply to shops and bathing facilities. This proposal, too, has the support of a majority in committee but risks falling into the Chamber. Madam President, I would like What finally surprises me is the position of the Center Party. The Center Party, as Johan Hedin began by saying, was the driving force behind the fact that the current legislation on access bans to stores came into place. Despite the fact that we can now see that the legislation is not working in the way we had expected, the Center Party is choosing to be passive instead of taking the opportunity here and now to vote for the ban to be decided in more situations and also for disorder of order to be the basis for decisions on a ban on access.
i-8mJ9romFXqrDFTckvgLiiW	Madam President, I would like I think that Mikael Damsgaard's speech bears the mark of attack is the best defence. I feel apostrophated and, in fact, a little concerned about the frivolity with which Mikael Damsgaard and the Moderates reason on these important issues. Here are central values against each other: the constitutionally secured right to free movement and the need to safeguard security in different places – and that is why we are doing this. That the Center Party should have changed its position is a falsarium; that is simply not true. The law came into place on 1 March last year-- way too late, may seem-- and it hasn't yet been fully operational. It takes time for law enforcement authorities to adapt their activities to the new conditions. Creating a twitch where the authorities will change their methods from year to year provides inefficiencies and reduces law enforcement capabilities. I really don't think the Moderates want that.
i-XnNubTuPyn5AvnD9x8piyA	Madam President, I would like We know that the prosecutors only grant 35% of the applications for access bans. Although the practice is not fully developed, there is much evidence that prosecutors need to make very high demands in order to apply this legislation – significantly higher requirements than Johan Hedin, signed and the traders had expected. We therefore believe that there is reason for the government to take the initiative already now to review this legislation so that it can be applied in more cases. Johan Hedin did not comment on the question of being able to apply the legislation on disorder of order even to bathing facilities and shops. We know that there are serious disturbances of order there too. It is a matter of activities other than libraries, yet it limits people's freedom and security when others disrupt order, live and make places less pleasant and more insecure.
i-NAosHK53DSWce84RaQDTu7	Madam President, I would like As I touched upon in my speech, the Alliance Government made an attempt to impose a ban on access to stores, but we failed. You can analyze why. Perhaps we were too political and rhetorical in our approach and too little focused on actually finding a sustainable legal solution. I do not give this government a very high mark in view of the long time it took to produce such a law, but it was still a law that could be implemented. Feasibility trumps rhetorical finesse at all times when it comes to achieving results, and these are results that the Center Party is looking for.
i-5fRa6BV7ac5SDLezdi2fzP	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, feasibility is what is lacking in this legislation. Only 35% of applications were granted. In my hometown of Västerås, the Prosecution Office granted 2 out of 15 applications for access bans. Since we are already seeing shortcomings, the government should take the initiative to review the legislation, and it should also be able to include disorder of order in shops and swimming pools. It should therefore be possible to use the legislation already in place and include these activities as well. In this way we would have legislation that could be applied in more cases and also protect people's freedom so that they can move safely without being exposed to various forms of confusion when visiting baths and shops. It would also protect those who run the business.
i-W1gpgHnNgunecx2N3rKs4J	Madam President, I would like The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise estimates that the crime targeted specifically at business involves a cost for Sweden's companies of approximately SEK 100 billion per year. There is a lot of money that traders are forced to spend today on other than their core business, which in practice means that growth and development are forced to stand back, with a lack of tax revenue and more unemployed than necessary as a result. The results of the Entrepreneurs' Association Entrepreneurs' report from earlier this year, Offences against Entrepreneurs 2022, reinforce the already gloomy picture of how crime lies as a wet blanket over the Swedish business community. For example, every other company with employees has been subjected to crime in the last five years, and only one in four entrepreneurs believes that the presence of the police is sufficient to provide security. Almost one in five entrepreneurs is now considering shutting down as a result of crime. The propensity to report is also decreasing at a frightening rate, and 70% of entrepreneurs have refrained from reporting crimes, mainly because they see no point in reporting. Madam President, I would like In other words, we are talking about a situation in Sweden where every other entrepreneur has been subjected to a crime and where a large majority of those exposed to crime have known that it is not worthwhile to report crimes to which they have been subjected. One type of crime that many traders end up saddening to report is the theft and other types of so-called mass crime that affects Swedish shop owners. I have met, for example, Ica dealers who have long stopped trying to report the crimes the store is exposed to. Now we are not even talking about what is happening beyond the crimes themselves, that is, disturbing and messy behaviour, and more that has been tried to get to grips with the ban on access. One trader stated that the cost of crime and security measures that he had to invest in for both store and staff amounted to nearly 10% of annual turnover, which was considerably more than profit. Against this background, it is no wonder that the issue of access bans to various places has been debated for several years in the Swedish Parliament. The government, led by Morgan Johansson, has repeatedly argued against access bans. Until 2019, despite the opposition's earlier announcements, the government did not want to support such a proposal. Given the years the government opposed this, it is undeniably welcome that both a ban on access to shops has been put in place and that the government is now proposing to extend the ban to bathing facilities and libraries. However, there is reason to highlight certain aspects that the government has not noted or put forward as proposals to us. With regard to the ban on access to stores, the Swedish Trade Federation has stated with several that the rate of granting is surprisingly low and that approximately three out of four applications are rejected. The Prosecution Authority has been with the Legal Affairs Committee and has explained that such matters are being dealt with, and that there is often a rejection because it is a new legislation, and because the props for granting have been interpreted so that it usually requires previously imposed penalties for crime in the shop concerned. It seems that the very risk of crime and disruptive behaviour is not adequately taken into account. This is particularly brought up to date by today's proposal as it goes forward with lower props for access bans to libraries. The fact that libraries have distinctive standards of silence and that loud behaviour there goes more against the standards is true. But even shops, and perhaps bathing facilities in particular, also have distinctive standards of acceptable behaviour, which are all too often broken. The proposed properties for libraries should therefore, in our opinion, include swimming pools and shops. When we know the scale of the crime to which Swedish traders are exposed today and the problem of the application of today's access ban, it is a matter of course for the Swedish democrats and a majority in the committee to work for an improvement, by announcing to the government that it will return to Parliament with proposals that the stricter rules on access bans proposed for libraries should also apply to bathing facilities and shops. The Notice also applies to a review of the current application. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, not all parties are asking for this, which is why the committee's position is likely to fall into the Chamber. Nevertheless, I would like to support the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-FQvAiV9gwKTAb6ZCJehdwM	Madam President, I would like Today's debate concerns an issue that is important to many people. This applies to traders who struggle to offer a safe environment for customers, employees and themselves. It is about trade staff who need to have a safe working environment. It is also about staff at libraries and bathing facilities who should be able to do their job without threats and violence. It is about us ordinary people who should be able to shop, bathe and borrow books without the risk of being drawn into situations where violence and threats occur. It is time to ensure that the needs of all these people are met in full. The introduction of a market access ban was an important first step. Today's bill, which extends the access ban to bathing facilities and libraries, is also necessary, although it has taken a long time to get to grips with the Swedish Parliament, as much as it does from the S-labelled government. We can see that in today's society we have many different problems related to crime. What we are debating today is evidence of everyday crime affecting traders, commercial workers, library staff and ordinary citizens. I see access bans as a measure to further highlight on the part of society against unacceptable behaviour and also as a means of improving the working environment for employees in commercial, bath and library areas. Madam President, I would like Today there is the possibility of a ban on access in connection with sporting events and shops. It is natural to create the conditions for a ban on access to bathing facilities and libraries as well. It should always be safe to visit the library or swimming pool. Unfortunately, reports of disorder and sexual harassment in these environments have been common in recent years. The Crime Prevention Council's survey shows that most libraries and swimming pools report that crime and disorder of order create insecurity and adversely affect activities. Here in Parliament, there have been a number of announcements regarding proposals on access bans for bathhouses and libraries, at the latest in 2021. As Brå's report shows, there are problems with disorder of order. There is therefore a clear need for enhanced protection against crimes and serious harassment in bathing facilities and libraries. We Christian Democrats therefore support the government's proposal to introduce the possibility of imposing a ban on access to bathing facilities and libraries. Madam President, I would like We note that, in this area too, a majority of the Committee on Justice believes that more can be done than the Government has proposed and achieved so far. Today's report therefore proposes two announcements that underline this fact. In our view, the stricter rules proposed for libraries should also apply to bathing facilities and shops. The fact that people engage in disrupting activities or cause significant damage also poses a problem in bathing facilities and shops. In addition to the negative effects on the safety of visitors and customers and the working environment of employees, the disruption can lead to financial damage. We therefore believe that there is reason for the Riksdag to address an announcement to the Government to come back with proposals for stricter rules according to what applies to libraries and that it should also apply to bathing facilities and shops. During the time when the ban on access in stores has been in operation, that is, more than a year, I and many others have discussed with various traders on several occasions that the result was not what was expected when the law was introduced. There is also information that the law on access bans is not applied to the extent that traders, among other things, had expected. It is also felt that it is difficult to get an existing access ban, and there are signals that the decisions are not handled in a similar way in different parts of Sweden. Therefore, even though the law has been in force for only one year, we Christian Democrats, together with a majority in committee, believe that there is a need to look at how it can be applied to a greater extent than has been the case so far. It is also shown in a proposal for an announcement from the committee. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats are in favour of the proposal, but since the Government's proposals do not reach the end, we also support the announcements proposed by the majority of the committee.
i-aFNWKat18dZdUsJUKZdae	Madam President, I would like As a parent, the library means a place where I and my children can again borrow books, books, books and with these discover new worlds, languages, people. But also an opportunity for me as a parent to be helped by knowledgeable and committed librarians to navigate children's literature and find what suits, which challenges. ..................................................... This quote is taken from a survey in Stockholm City about the importance of libraries and visitors' experiences. The library is and should be a free zone for reading. Books are the door to endlessly many worlds, places and people. They teach us about our history, our time and our future. Above all, books give us the tools we need to understand and interpret the world around us. Every human being should have access to this amazing resource and be helped to exploit it. For this, quiet and equipped libraries are a foundation stone. Good libraries are most important for children and young people who do not grow up with books around them, who do not get reading habits with them from home and who may not have a quiet place to study or read. So many of the children and young people I have met have just expressed this: the importance of the library in order to have peace and quiet and conditions to read, do homework or just dream of life. It is just as sad to hear children's and young people's stories that they feel insecure when they visit the library because it is messy and messy. Just as the quote points out, it is the librarian's important task to be knowledgeable and committed and to help visitors navigate the vast variety of books that libraries can offer. Libraries, on the other hand, should not be a place where you can behave. Anyone who repeatedly misbehaves and disturbs others must therefore be able to be denied access. The library must not become a place for taking care of social problems, although society should of course exist for people who are homeless, people with addiction and people with mental illness. Social problems are an enormous suffering for the individual and an important task for social services. All those who want to be at the library to read and rest and who respect other visitors should of course be as welcome as everyone else. But if you interfere and scare away others, that's a problem. Social support can never be supposed to be provided in libraries at the risk of children and young people who are in great need of a quiet place feeling that they cannot be there. Madam President, I would like We Liberals will always fight for the important role of libraries in education. We Liberals will always fight for vulnerable people in forgotten Sweden. Their vulnerability, powerlessness and freedom are the task of the social offices. But we will be as clear as that it is not the core task of libraries to function as a social office. However, we see the importance of libraries for children and young people to pass studies, which is a central issue for children and young people to be given the opportunity to live their dreams. When it comes to the bathing houses, it is extremely important to talk about the vulnerability that is likely to occur in our bathing houses around Sweden. This applies to children and young people who get groped, children and young people who are victims of abuse, and children and young people who want a fun Saturday but who go home with a big lump in the stomach. You want me to tell you? What could happen? What really happened? What am I supposed to do? We know that, unfortunately, vulnerable children and young people do not feel the confidence in the adult world that we would like. It depends on the adult world. This is because we are poorly equipped to talk about the vulnerability of children and young people. This is because we are bad at asking questions, bad at reading signals and bad at taking in the reality that children and young people live with. On the Liberal side, it is self-evident that anyone who abuses or for other reasons makes it impossible for those who behave to be safe in a bathhouse with determination to be expelled from the site. This possibility must be used every time it happens. And if we are to ensure that staff want to see, dare to act and feel support in making important decisions, it is important that we show that we support them. It is equally important that we all do what we can to prevent and prevent abuse. We have to take in the statistics that show that so many children and young people, and especially girls, are exposed around the world every day in our small, equal Sweden. I must highlight the fantastic work that Kalmar badhus took on. When I was responsible for the work against honour violence, I heard about Kalmar's work. In the bathhouse were posters with clear messages posted. One said: Undressing requires humanity. In the bathhouse we meet undressed and stripped. It is both rare and rarely beautiful, something we should cherish and take care of. Here we would like to say hello, but we also accept a no.
i-5ATAAQQ1YURGXCEzN62WHX	In the water, we take care of each other. Our bath hosts are available for everyone's safety, but act immediately if you see someone in need. Together we are the eyes and ears of the bathhouse. It was a very good and insightful initiative. This is how we take in reality, and so we create the conditions for preventing vulnerability as well as sending clear signals that those responsible want to know what is happening. The confused solutions that have been found with segregated bathing times for women and men, segregated swimming classes for girls and boys and adaptation to parents' demands that little girls should not participate in swimming are only an expression of the anxiety that has been spread out in our Sweden and definitely does not solve any problems. Learning to swim is the cheapest life insurance policy. I say like Kalmar: Here we say hello, but we also accept a no. That the person who exposes others in a bathhouse should be rejected and ported should be equally clear.
i-MQ7eiSUGtMNWf892kjKpcj	Madam President, I would like We are now going to debate a report summarising all motion requests on police issues in motions from general exercise in autumn 2021. But in my speech, let me start with the riots that shook Sweden during the Easter weekend. As the Prime Minister has already clearly stated, whether it be sacred writings or other books, a book punch is an atrocious phenomenon. These were conscious actions whose purpose was to provoke conflict and increase polarisation in Sweden. But no matter how bad we feel about book punches, we have far-reaching freedom of expression in Sweden. It is the same freedom of expression that also gives the right to carry out peaceful demonstrations in protest. But what we saw was no protest. During the riots in Easter, Swedish blue-light personnel were subjected to attacks. Police cars were set on fire, stones and molotov cocktails were thrown and policemen feared for their own and their colleagues' lives. In both the media and the Committee on Legal Affairs, we have heard terrible reports. These were not political acts, but criminal acts. Madam President, I would like The riots had a clear purpose of harming the police. And I strongly condemn the violence against the police and the whole of society. This is not acceptable in any way. These are scenes and events that are not worthy of Sweden. In order to crack gang crime, we must continue to tighten the penalties, strengthen the police and break the segregation that has laid the foundation for many of the problems that we see. Now the police and the judiciary are working for all those responsible to be arrested and held accountable for their actions. The police also evaluate their own work to see what you can learn from Easter riots. The police should have the right tools to counter the violence. It's a police question what arming the police should have. But if or when they make assessments and make inquiries, we will listen to them. And I want to be clear: the police should have and will get the weapons that they judge to be in need of. This is the most important short-term measure. Madam President, I would like Beyond that, we need to continue the fight against the gangs. We Social Democrats are extremely clear that we should turn every stone to break the segregation and break the violence. And I see three important steps forward. The police will continue to grow and become more out in the streets and squares. The police will continue to gain more powers, for example with regard to the secret preventive interception of gang criminals. And we continue to raise the penalties, for example for gang-criminal settlements. But the fight against gang crime is not just about police, tactics and equipment. It is also of the utmost importance that we stop the recruitment of young people. Now that the police are more effective in dealing with criminals, we must stop the influx. In addition to strengthening the school and social services, I see three important issues in the future. It is a question of the government reviewing the possibility of an individual restraining order for individuals involved in gang crime or drug sales without these persons having been convicted of a crime. The powers of the social services should also be strengthened by means of inter-must-mechanism, where you can go in and make clear and early contributions without the consent of parents. It is also about the fact that we have started work on a reform of a state youth crime committee led by a judge who will be able to gather all relevant actors for interventions around children and young people who are on the run – police, social services, family and others. The Board shall be able to introduce mandatory measures for young people from 10 years onwards. It's a plan to keep young people away from crime and riots. Madam President, I would like I wanted to start there because that is where the debate is in society and because that is where our great focus is in committee. It is a question of combating crime, strengthening the judiciary and breaking recruitment. These are issues that we are debating in our budget debates and in many of the substantive debates on the sharp legislative proposals that the government is presenting as and when it comes to our area. Today's focus is on taking a stand on exercise from general exercise time. There are proposals here that we have chosen to discourage because they are directly bad. We think that many proposals govern in detail what the authority should do. We're saying that's the wrong way to go. We do not get a better police authority because every year in general exercise sessions, the Riksdag points to and says exactly how the agency and its units will work. With the major police reform, we have said that it should be a common authority and set the framework for the work. I think that's the important focus to have. But we have also rejected a number of demands for exercise because the work is already in progress. There is no reason for the Riksdag to tell the government once again what to do, not when the government already delivers in this area. You can take the dance state as an example. We have said, in agreement with the committee, that it should be abolished. The government has said that it will abolish it but that some other issues are more prioritised. Or take the more important issue of the protection of identity data, where parties here today choose to break open doors! The investigation that you want to be set up to highlight the issue is already in place. Work's in progress. There is no reason to make this announcement. This is an area of very mixed elements, and I would like to support reservation 32 of these proposals.
i-32QanNzeKhiqHBr58S4oWu	Madam President, I would like When we have this debate today, we can say that Sweden is not feeling well. Of course, we live in a country that in many ways is fantastic, but when it comes to the issues that we are going to discuss now, namely legal issues and insecurity, unfortunately, Sweden is doing anything but just fine. We have a government that hasn't been on the lazy side in the last few years to make different promises to everything and everyone that there will be change. We've been able to hear time and again that the shootings are going down, that the security is going to increase, that the police recruitment is going to take off-- well, everything is going to be fine again. That's what I've been talking about. Now, on the spring edge of 2022, we are at the same time in the position that we can begin to evaluate how it really has become. This is how it is, Madam President: criminality has stuck in our country. We see shootings that remain at a very high level. We're seeing death shootings breaking records. Never before have so many people been shot to death in the gang-criminal environments as in Sweden in spring 2022. We also see a new recruitment to the criminal gangs that also beats record. There are thousands of people a year, three a day, several tens of thousands of people in Sweden in 2022 who are in the gang-criminal environments. Just to have said it at once: this is not about the government not doing anything. We can agree on that. Of course something has been done! There have been a lot of proposals and above all a lot of press meetings. I've lost count of how many government officials have kept. At the same time, however, we can say something else: it is not primarily about what you do, it is about the results that you achieve – or perhaps in this case, which you do not achieve. We are at a point where we don't have to do the most things but the right things – what would really do it really, really hard to be a criminal in Sweden and what is pattern breaking. Madam President, I would like A moderate government after the autumn elections will carry out the greatest offensive against the criminal gangs ever seen in our history. We will turn stones if that is what is needed, and we will overturn mountains if that is what is needed. But we're gonna do whatever it takes. Sweden will not have another eight lost years, but we will make sure to deal with the problems. We will push back the gangs, give victims redress and make Sweden safe and secure for the citizens again. The role of the police, Madam President, is absolutely crucial here. We can have any legislation and punishment, but it does not matter very much if no criminal is prosecuted. And for that it takes cops. It requires policemen in sufficient numbers, police officers with the right tools and police officers who are motivated for and engaged in their work. Swedish police are doing a fantastic job today in many ways. It is only a pity that they are still too few and that they do not have the right tools. In fact, they do not even get the legislation of the government that they themselves have asked for. We have a government that says no to the very proposals that the police themselves point out are what you need to stop gang crime. I would also like to say that, unfortunately, our police officers still do not always get the right appreciation and sufficient appreciation for the extremely important work they do. Madam President, I would like I am pleased that there is support in the Committee on Justice for greatly increasing police density in Sweden. It is commonly said that in Sweden security guards do the work that police officers do in other countries. We Moderates want Sweden to have a police density at EU level. This means about going from today's approximately 21 000 police officers to over 30 000 – 31 000 or 32 000, a little depending on how you count. It will be very important, and it is our goal to achieve this by 2028, provided that this government delivers at the level of its police case. I am glad that there is a majority to go in that direction, because it will be very central. But, of course, it is not just a matter of saying that you have a goal; you have to make sure that you meet it, too. There we can see that today we are in a position where there have been 13 semesters in a row without this government having managed to fill the places on the police training – 13 semesters in a row! Here we moderates have pointed out the importance of continuing to make the targeted police salary effort but also of making police training what it once was, namely paid for. It is a good way to both recruit more people into this important profession and prevent more people from leaving it prematurely. We also need to ensure that police forces are resource efficient. The ambition of our proposal is to put the emphasis far out in the local police areas, close to the citizens. We do this so that all citizens throughout Sweden can feel safe and secure. But it is also a prerequisite for overcoming the kind of crime we are currently seeing that we have a police officer present, not least in our affected areas, not just a few hours from time to time, but 24 hours every day, 7 days a week, 52 weeks a year. In order to do so, Madam President, we have also pointed out the importance of continuing to streamline police work. There are today a number of tasks that are handled by the police and that they spend time, energy and effort on but that we think would actually be better handled by someone else. One current example is the passport issue. But there are other things, such as the interaction with security guards. There are a lot of tasks that are handled by the police today, not least transport, but that could have been better handled by security guards. It would free up the resources for the police to be able to work on what they really want, namely law enforcement. Another important part of making this work well is that security officers have better opportunities to operate over a little greater geographical distance and larger places than today. Madam President, I would like The report is called 'Police Affairs'. But it's not just about the police. It's also about more things, and I'm very happy about that. This is a chain of different actors that all have to work towards the same goal if there is to be any effect. One such example is customs. Customs has a very important role in the fight against crime, but it is unfortunately downgraded today. There is much to do here, not least to stop drugs and weapons from entering the country. It is much easier to stop it at the border than to remove it when it has spread out into the streets and squares of our elongated country. But it is also about preventing stolen goods from leaving Sweden. Now spring has arrived. It's high season for theft leagues. A great many people have already had their belongings stolen or will unfortunately risk being hit by these theft leagues in the future. We must put an end to this. It can be noted that the Customs Authority investigation has now been extended. It shouldn't be ready for more than a year. The inquiry is, of course, the hallmark of the Social Democratic Government: it is unconditional. It does not have any strong demands to come back with constitutional changes, but it can be a bit as it gets. When you write directives in this way, things also tend to be similar to what they already are. Things don't usually change that much. There is a different view of Moderates. We will not rule and lead as receded as this government, but with more force and conviction. Madam President, I would like As I said: If we Moderates get the chance, after the autumn elections we will carry out the biggest offensive against crime that has ever been seen in Sweden. We will prosecute criminals, we will give victims redress and we will make society safe and secure for people again. With that, I would like to endorse reservation number 10 on more police officers in external service.
i-3M81zUksG5JjQwrpaSZL7f	Madam President, I would like We are debating today, as I have said, the report on police matters, which contains a great deal of information. I will go into some of the points that are included. A well-functioning police officer is a prerequisite for a secure rule of law. Today, the Swedish police have great challenges to fulfill their mission and need increased resources, both financially and in law enforcement terms. But it is also a management issue. For a long time, poor wages and working conditions, but above all an increasingly precarious life to work in, have led to fewer police officers wanting to work in external service. It has also become more difficult to recruit police students. Despite reduced admission requirements and a simplified application procedure, study places are not filled. At the start of the semester in January this year, nearly 40 per cent of the seats were empty. It is the 13th semester start in a row that begins with vacancies. At each semester there are about 300 places that are not filled. This corresponds to a normal-sized police station – every semester! The government's target of reaching 26 200 police officers by the end of 2024 will not be reached. For there to be a chance to reach the goal, the places need to be filled every semester, that is, 1,000 places per semester. The quota for civil servants has been reached. The number of police employees has increased by 20 per cent, but the number of trained police officers has only increased by 3.5 per cent. Police work is tough, and in order to attract the right people, it is necessary to continue to upgrade the profession with targeted wage initiatives, better working conditions, more career paths and paid police training. A paid police training will attract more competent applicants, people who are in the middle of life with family and all that it means and who cannot live on student loans. Madam President, I would like Today, serious crime consumes a great deal of resources from other police activities. Investigations of everyday crimes must be ironed on the foot. Many times the only reason for a private person to file a complaint is to be able to obtain compensation from their insurance company. Ordinary citizens feel extradited to everyday violence where neither police nor politicians have time to care about what is happening. The police point out that there are much more serious crimes that require their attention. Madam President, I would like Since the reorganisation in 2015, the police's budgetary framework has grown by around 60 per cent. But despite the large budget contributions, the police organization is not working as it should. The expected results are not coming. Swedish police have one of the world's best trained police forces and have a high level of competence. This is not about the individual police, it is a management issue. There is a management culture in the police that hampers healthy development. Strategic and operational police work is not analysed and evaluated as it should be. The problems that the Police Authority has in its way of operating are due to a lack of basic analytical work. Criticism is often suppressed, and projects are not evaluated as they should. Without sound development work, it is difficult to see that the Swedish police have the conditions necessary to manage to change their way of working and thereby achieve improved results. In other countries where police use problem-oriented police work, they have been able to quickly influence violent crime in a particular area after basic analysis work. It is important to introduce a clearer responsibility for performance reporting and follow-up within the Police Authority. Since the reorganisation work has been under way to develop a new monitoring model, which will, among other things, capture more qualitative factors than before. But seven years after the reorganisation, that work has not yet been completed. A better follow-up of results that is of high quality and based on appropriate measures will enable a greater accountability of managers and be relevant in terms of resource allocation within the Police Authority. The government needs to make demands for this work to be completed and put into service as soon as possible. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats, together with a majority in the Riksdag, want to see the reintroduction of the emergency services. The increase in violence and the change in the security policy situation mean that we need to look at different types of measures, where reintroduction of the emergency services could be part of them. In special events, such as the Koran riots during the Easter weekend, the emergency police had been a much-needed resource. Prior to the closure in 2012, the Emergency Response Police constituted a resource of approximately 1 500 people. These could be deployed at short notice as reinforcements to the ordinary police. In the Stockholm area, 300 men could be called in for less than two hours. Unfortunately, this resource was not used to the extent requested by the Police Authority because the majority of applications were rejected by the then National Police Board. The political authority's human resources are currently undersized. Society is becoming increasingly insecure, organised crime has increased and the threat of terrorism is constantly present. There are therefore good reasons for reconsidering the decision and re-establishing the emergency services. It would be an extraordinary additional resource to be able, if necessary, to call in the emergency services to relieve and strengthen the police with a short-term view. Madam President, I would like The police take care of society when many others are not present. The police work all year round, around the clock, doing a lot of things that most of us don't notice because many of the data don't end up in any statistics. Today, the police have very many tasks that are not about fighting crime. A number of this information should be released from the police. Much of the police's time is spent on administrative work. Civil servants could relieve police officers to a much greater extent than is happening today. A significant part of the business is spent on transportation and taking care of drunks and people with mental health problems. If these people are not violent, transport should be carried out by another professional group. If we want a higher police presence and better law enforcement, the government needs to review how resources are distributed in society and who is responsible for what tasks. This is something that the police have been asking for for a long time, but the government has not yet been able to resolve it. Madam President, I would like A major threat to police operations is the high vulnerability of police officers to attempts at influence, i.e. unlawful and undue influence, mapping, harassment and self-censorship. It appears from the surveys carried out by the Police Authority that 68 per cent of the intervention police have been subjected, in a national perspective, to at least one but usually more attempts during a twelve-month period. The corresponding exposure to police officers in vulnerable areas is in some cases almost 100%. The reasons given for the self-censorship of police officers, i.e. not performing their duties as they should, were fear of reprisals, the risk of being subjected to violence or threats, understaffing in intervention situations and the risk of escalating situations of intervention. The normalisation of threats and harassment from both the working environment and prosecution perspectives has reached an unacceptable level. These developments are very worrying and risk becoming, if not already, a threat to the system. One way to reduce the risk of being subjected to influence attempts is for the police who wish to receive protected personal data. Given the current criminality, it is incomprehensible that this has not yet been implemented. It is also important that the right to compensation for violations of police officers be strengthened. No one shall have to endure violence, threats or violations in their professional activities. Ultimately, it risks becoming a democracy problem if individual police officers do not dare to do their job because of fear that they or their relatives will be subjected to violence, threats or harassment. The police protect the citizens, and an attack on the police is an attack on the rule of law. The compensation has been extended to make it easier for police officers to access it. However, the government did not go all the way, but believed that police officers should still be considered to be able to endure a little more. The Swedish Democrats believe that police officers should of course be covered by the same protection as other citizens. It is surprising that not all parties see it as important to counteract the vulnerability of police officers. Domestic legislation is the same as not caring about violence against police officers. I request the approval of reservation 7.
i-DYFc2TswK93V8M7degQBmJ	Madam President, I would like I began my speech in the last debate by telling you about a visit I made to Sergels torg here in Stockholm. I shall begin this speech by telling you about another visit that I made at about the same time. It was in Kronoberg County. I had been hit by entrepreneurs all over the country who were exposed to travelling theft gangs who stole all sorts of things: machine equipment, diesel oil and other things. I was particularly touched by one of these entrepreneurs' stories. He had just over a year earlier made a blow to the cause and started his own company. He had taken out a loan on his home and bought a very expensive excavator to start his construction company. He had worked hard to land new customers and had just received an assignment. He had set up the machine and a diesel tank on Friday and was going to work on Monday, but when he came to work, someone had sawed a hole in the diesel tank and stolen the diesel. With a bureaucratic measurement method to see the value of this crime, it was diesel oil for 20 000 kroner that was stolen. But the value he lost on this was much more than that. First of all, it meant a tremendous amount that he could not deliver to this new customer that he had been nagging for quite some time to work for. Second, he had to do many other things than work and earn money for his start-up that week. One should also consider what it does to trust when, as he testifies, one does not feel seen by the judiciary in the process. Of course, he reported the incident to the police, but the police didn't even have time to go there and look at it. Turns out he was not alone, but there are many of these in stories about people around the country who are victims of crime and theft. It creates difficult situations for entrepreneurs who are so important to the welfare of the whole country, and they do not feel seen by the state and the judiciary. This landed in a policy proposal – in the last debate I told you about the policy proposal that I put in place on entry bans in stores – after considering why these things are not taken seriously enough. Then we found out that we wanted a crime that crossed the crime theft of the standard grade and that we would call systematic theft. It became a reality last year. It was a far too late delivery from the government, one might think, but it was at least a delivery seven years later. We hope that this law can begin to operate and help the margin. But, Madam President, nothing will help in terms of criminal value unless the crimes are investigated. We tore our hair and asked ourselves, ‘ Why aren't these crimes being investigated? You can only land in one conclusion, and it is that there are not enough police muscles. You don't have time to go on everything you'd have to go on. There are three priority dimensions, you might say, for the police. The first is the most urgent, of course, alarm, that is, when someone calls 112 and needs help. The second is to investigate the crimes, and the third is to prevent the crimes. In a pressured situation where the police may not even be able to go on all the alarms, you will not have time to investigate, and if you do not have time to investigate, you will still have time to do the important crime prevention work. Madam President, I would like So it's about police muscle. This is something that my party leader Annie Lööf noticed in her Christmas speech as early as 2015 when we proposed an addition to the police with, with the measures of that time, breathtaking 1.7 billion. That increased every week when this was analysed and it turned out that the muscles are too weak for the police to do everything it would have to do. We see a lack of investigation into the hateful violence of firearms. I heard on the radio the other day that only a quarter of these crimes lead to some kind of conviction. That is, of course, completely indecent, Madam President, and we must do something about that. It is therefore gratifying that a united parliament has set itself the goal of having 10 000 more police employees in 2024 compared to 2018. But that will not be enough. Sweden is a sparsely populated country, and we need a higher police density. With the police density resulting from the police reform up to 2024, we will be approximately 2.4 police officers per 1 000 inhabitants. A European standard level is approximately 3.1 police officers per 1 000 inhabitants. We have to get to at least that level. Madam President, I would like It's not enough with police muscle. The police must also have a sharp brain. We must have a smart police officer who is able to give a good priority and fight crime in a good way. Therefore, we believe that it is necessary that we introduce greater elements in Sweden of police research and create a basis for that research by making police education after 2024, when we have made the first step of the expansion, a real academic education with an academic degree that can be based on and also carry out further research. The police also need to have a nervous system that works. We have heard previous speakers highlight the problems of a lack of management culture in the police. I remember in particular a conversation I had with a district police officer who caught it so well. He said the fear of doing wrong is greater than the desire to do good things. We cannot do that, Madam President. The police must have self-esteem and dare, be able to and sense meaning in what they do in their work. Madam President, I would like I have my background in business, and I often think of the difference in approach between government and business. Both have their advantages and perhaps disadvantages, but something that business is good at is the focus on performance and operationality. I was especially reminded of this last week when I was talking to some American police officers who were experts in gun violence from New Jersey and New York and who visited Sweden. They have managed to reduce gun violence by 80 percent over a few years. It's very impressive. Those who brought them here were the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce, and they should be very grateful for that work. Madam President, I would like I believe that if we are to solve the problems of insecurity and reverse a development that has been far too negative for too long, many different actors in society must be on the train, not least the business community. I am very grateful for the work they do and for involving companies. Of course, this is something that is important for companies themselves – reducing the risks of being exposed to crime and helping as much as possible. Madam President, I would like The companies are both a goal and a means of security – a goal in that they deserve our efforts to ensure their security so that they are not exposed to crime and a means for companies, such as a store, to draw a flow of ordinary people to themselves, which crowds out crime. It is important that they are in place. Something else, in the longer term, is that companies are the ones that make sure that there are wages and employees, so that people have jobs to go to and can make money. We know that social and economic exclusion is a breeding ground for crime. We have to address this, and it is through the companies that it happens. I have already promised the SME Committee, i.e. the Swedish Enterprise Department for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, that the Center Party will work to produce more reliable statistics on crimes against entrepreneurs. We heard earlier today, in another debate, that the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise estimates the value of corporate crime exposure to 100 billion annually. I believe, Madam President, that this is far too small a figure. There are great numbers of darkness, especially when it comes to ransomware that companies are exposed to but also a lot of other types of attacks. That is why I would like to endorse our reservation 38 on crimes against companies.
i-Xw4fdXfvZL3wLw7moA48Eo	Madam President, I would like Since Easter weekend riots, more than 300 injuries have been reported by police officers. The police union, the police union, plans to report a crime against the OSH Act in early June against the Police Authority because there were major deficiencies during the operation during the Easter weekend. There were too few policemen and they could not act, there was a lack of management and control, as well as of protective equipment, and the right working methods were not used. There is a huge shortage of equipment, training and management, and then policemen are in danger. Police chiefs should have assumed that this could happen, according to the National Safety Officer. There had to be a greater overall picture and understanding of what could happen and what the police could have done. It was unacceptable violence directed against police officers. I hope that many, many investigations will lead to convictions. Madam President, I would like The police union has long lifted the education debt within the police and that it is not always about the number of police officers having to increase. On the other hand, the right training and equipment must be available. Fewer people can do a better job when it comes to dealing with violent groups. Many experiences were drawn after the European Summit in Gothenburg in 2001, but these experiences now seem to be blown away in the Police Authority. The police are not a learning organisation but an authority that repeatedly invents the wheel. Despite all this, despite the shortcomings in terms of number, planning, governance, management and education, the chief of police decided on the Justice Committee to raise the need for even more tools. He called for rubber bullets and water cannons. Does he want to put those tools in the hands of police officers without proper training? The chief police officer did not mention in a word that police officers in four of the seven police areas lack the proper training to handle general gatherings. In the police region East, Bergslagen, Mitt and Nord there is no training in the specific police tactics. On the other hand, many educations in AMF, work against crowds. But the specific police tactics mean higher skills and better equipment and, above all, better and more well-structured management structure. However, more is needed. The police must also have new tools to deal with social unrest, not just public gatherings and public events. There are tools – then I am not talking about equipment, but about tactics and ways of working – to reduce social unrest. The research is there, and the experience is with individual police officers. But the lack of a holistic approach is unfortunately total. When the right working methods and training do not exist, individual policemen are in danger of life. It leads to injuries, both physically and mentally. This is dangerous. In order for the Police Authority to be an attractive authority, the Left Party believes that improvements in the physical and psychosocial working environment are required. The police work under varying and complex conditions. It can be both psychologically and physically very stressful. It is therefore important that there are relevant and well-established security procedures, especially when it comes to police work in different vulnerable positions. Similarly, it is important that both technical and other physical aids and work tools work and are well adapted to the activities of the police. That is not the situation today in the Police Department. We can look at what the police spend time on: very much administration. If civil servants were to carry out the administration of filing complaints, recording seizures, making requests and printing recorded interviews – it is the work of the police today – it would be equivalent to 1,900 police officers measured in annual labour force. There must be a change here. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Parliament has previously issued an announcement to the government to produce a basis that highlights the vulnerability of police officers to crime and then returns with proposals for measures to make the working environment safer for police officers in external service. The announcement is based on two left-wing motion requests. Such an investigation must be comprehensive in highlighting the vulnerability of police officers to offences in the performance of their duties. But the government chose not to proceed with the proposal in a bill. It's a huge flaw. This is something that the Left Party lifts up and that the Police Federation lifts up. Madam President, I would like The police did a major reorganisation in 2015. All parties had different views on how well it was implemented. But we stand where we stand today. However, there are many things that were not quite what it was supposed to be. Therefore, the Left Party believes that a new police committee is needed that takes a broad and visionary approach to the agency's operational development. The Police Authority must be given the task of strengthening the ability to plan, manage and develop its activities, and to develop monitoring and strengthen local police work. Madam President, I would like I shall ask for the approval of reservation 6. The police department needs to look at its own house before further renovations can take place. There must be trained staff before completely new equipment and tools can enter the agency. Leadership, planning and focus on the basic assignment I want to see more of from Sweden's most important authority.
i-Neqrb1Ycp6dNXMFBxJfePN	Madam President, I would like Sweden should be a safe country to live in, whether you live in the countryside, in a city or in a suburb. One of the most important tasks of the state is to provide citizens with security through a well-functioning judicial system. Unfortunately, however, Sweden is losing its grip on the escalating violence. And for many of the criminals, all the bars have been released. The Christian Democrats believe that efforts to combat violence must be intensified. We need to protect vital social functions. Criminals put in systems to attack social offices, municipal halls, court halls, etc., to make the work of those who work there more difficult. Police, fire brigade and ambulance personnel suffer an enormous number of incomprehensible attacks. Easter riots are one of many examples of recent attacks. We are debating here and now police matters. This is a matter in which we deal with about 500 requests for exercise this year. The police are one of the primary factors in creating security in our country. Police are an important resource for maintaining security. It is therefore important that society clearly states that threats and violence against police officers are not acceptable and that the legislation clearly gives the police rights and opportunities to maintain their security and those of others. The police must continue to recruit and employ at a high rate. Sweden remains low compared to the rest of Europe in terms of police density. We need more police so that the police can have a proper presence in vulnerable places throughout the country. Madam President, I would like This report contains eight proposals for announcements. One of them is about the number of police officers. Sweden, as I said, has too few policemen, and too few of them are out in the streets and squares. With today's numbers, it is difficult to fight the gangs that have taken over in certain exclusion areas while being present around our country, even in small places where the police are sometimes almost absent today. True, the number of police officers has increased slightly to perhaps over 21,000 today. However, as the number of residents has also increased, the number of police per inhabitant has increased, but it is still some way to the level we were in 2014 with 205 police officers per 100,000 inhabitants and to the peak in 2010 of 216 police officers per 100,000 inhabitants. We also have a long way to go before the target of 26 000 police officers by the end of 2024. In Europe, the comparison figure is about 300 police officers per 100,000 inhabitants. It shows that Sweden has too few police officers. In order to remedy this and to ensure that the police are present throughout the country, we Christian Democrats propose that Sweden should have 30,000 police officers as soon as possible. We want there to be 10,000 more employees in the police force. The majority will be police officers. Developments in certain particularly vulnerable areas are sometimes described as almost lost. A given way to break development and regain control is to increase the number of police officers and also to restore a presence in sparsely populated areas. The police also need to be given the opportunity to do their job by carrying out certain tasks by others, that is to say, the tasks of the police are refined. You also need to have the equipment and the means to carry out your mission according to what is needed. Madam President, I would like As mentioned earlier in the debate, the Customs Agency is also an important branch in combating crime. Today, it is not an authority that is part of the police. But it has a law enforcement function. We have free movement within the EU. But this must not mean that Swedish borders are unprotected. The Christian Democrats want to strengthen customs law enforcement and border protection. Today, there is a strong focus on being a tax authority, on controlling the importation of excise goods and on collecting taxes. Customs still has too little authority today. Despite changes made, it can be said that Sweden is still a smorgasbord for international theft leagues. It is true that there was an increased opportunity to intervene against crime. However, even according to the Swedish Customs, this did not mean much change, since only checks may be carried out in connection with export operations. It is important that customs are given a targeted task to check the exit of goods and also to search for stolen goods. It is important to prevent the activities of the theft gangs. Madam President, I would like Another point I would like to highlight in the debate is the crimes committed by animal rights activists. Hunters, traders and people working in the green industries are now increasingly exposed to crimes and harassment of animal rights activists. It's about crimes of many different kinds. It ranges from vandalism, harassment, trespassing, to illegal threats and abuse. We want the police's resources to fight crimes related to animal rights extremists to be reviewed. It should be classified as extremism and be subject to more police action at national and global level. Since we see that there is a need for an increase in ambition, we believe that a special group for animal rights-related crimes should be set up at the Police Authority and that investigators with special competence for this type of crime should be included in all police regions. Here we share our views with the Center Party. I therefore request the approval of reservation 40. Madam President, I would like Of course, we Christian Democrats support all the proposals for announcements made, our proposals and the reservations we have. But, as I said, I only want to approve reservation 40.
i-3zqv1eM5PL4871rmgoadvG	Madam President, I would like It is time for a round-up of Swedish justice policy. Liberals' justice policy will always focus on vulnerable children and women. Liberals demand a Sweden that stands on the side of victims. A week ago we saw riots in my hometown of Norrköping. It was policemen who were attacked in the area where I worked, the area where I have been at home with women and children who have been abused and need help from the police. What happens to legal certainty if bluelight personnel hesitate to enter a particular area for a single moment? It is the vulnerable children and women who are affected. Sweden is in many respects a different country from what it was 20 years ago. We need a policy that is straight and clear-sighted in the face of the path that it represents. It is a policy which does not hymn about the integration challenges and which does not falter in the defence of the rule of law. Sweden is in many ways a divided country. The violent riots in Swedish cities show that Sweden is facing a breakpoint. We've reached the culmination. Either we reverse the development of our vulnerable areas – then we need action and that we dare to see reality – or we get used to stones and shootings. Easter riots are just the tip of the iceberg with the consequences of segregation and exclusion. A changing world requires clear-sightedness and ability to change. It is abilities that Sweden has often shown, but where we have now lost both speed and courage. The situation is alarming. Where exclusion is at its greatest, it is often criminal gangs and clans that run the public space. Too few people support themselves. Too many students complete primary school with a lack of knowledge, life chances and the opportunity to live their dreams. So a growing alienation is cemented to a new generation. Liberals require clear budgetary efforts to strengthen the police's ability to deal with riots and riots. Police officers at the front of the line to break a situation of ongoing violence must have the best equipment. This applies to both protective equipment and other equipment and training. If necessary, the police should be able to use water cannons as well as other measures to stop violent workers and ensure that they can then be prosecuted. Half a million people live in our vulnerable areas. The vast majority are ordinary citizens who want to create a safe life for themselves and their families. Nevertheless, things that would never have been accepted in the rest of society have been met with laxity and naivety. Now we have to turn the ship around. Madam President, I would like The restoration of the rule of law, which is crucial to our individual's right to security and freedom, will require comprehensive and long-term reforms. Liberals will push for everyone who lives in Sweden to have the basic security and freedom from violence and crime to which they are entitled. I've been talking to several police officers who've been working for decades. We won't make it if we don't get any more, they say. The lack of police officers is excruciating. As seats on the police program remain empty, the target of 10,000 more police workers by 2024 appears unrealistic. The single most important effort is to strengthen police salaries. It should be seen in the pay envelope that society appreciates the efforts that policemen make every day in the service of society, not infrequently in environments and contexts where they are exposed to great risks. In the long term, Sweden must reach the European average, i.e. some 33 000 police officers against today's more than 20 000 police officers. There is a need for recognition of the important work of the police in external service. The police need to be more accessible to the public. The police should be able to guarantee a certain emergency period in the event of serious crimes. Serious crime acts at various social arenas and focuses on the crime where economic gain, but also power, is best. Cooperation between authorities needs to be strengthened. The public payment system must be made much more robust in order to prevent criminals from making use of different security systems. Secret coercive measures should be able to be used to a greater extent than they are today to tackle serious organised crime. Liberals demand that the protection of witnesses be improved, and the witness protection programme should be expanded. The victim perspective must be included in the entire legal process, from the report to the prison service. There is a need for systematic support from police and prosecutors to victims of crime, and cooperation between police, social services and civil society needs to be deepened. The drop-off activity needs to continue to develop, and a national exit programme for people who want to leave crime behind needs to be introduced. However, it must be done only after serving the sentence. Madam President, I would like There are many of us who are shocked by the disgusting violence suffered by a woman in Norberg. A woman was raped and then thrown into a mine hole. Then he threw stones at her. Society must stand up for the victims. The punishment for rape is often indecently low. Not least, those who commit repeated rapes must receive higher penalties. Men's violence against women, young guys' violence against young girls, honour-related violence and oppression, violence in same-sex relationships and all forms of sexual crime concern the whole of society. These are often serious crimes, and there are many victims. Men's violence against women, young guys' violence against young girls and honour-related violence and oppression is the most extreme expression of the notion that girls' and women's freedom, dignity and integrity are subordinate to men's. We as Liberals can never stand passively against that. Some 30,000 cases of assault on girls and women are reported to the police each year, and there is a large number of blackouts. Every three weeks a woman or girl in Sweden is murdered by a man they have or have had a close relationship with. According to Brå, 150 000 children live in Sweden together with one parent who has been abused by the other parent. Cops' treatment of girls and women who have been raped means a lot to the victim's ability to process their experiences. Cops who face rape victims want to be supportive and empathetic, but many say that they too lack the necessary conditions to be able to act professionally and supportively. Victims' criticism needs to be taken seriously. The strained situation within the agency means that the police do not have time to take on reports even of the most serious crimes in sufficient time. The police need to strengthen their investigative capacity. It is also important to develop the work on early detection of sexual offences. Getting young guys to stop practicing violence against young girls must be a higher priority. Support for young girls needs to be improved. The knowledge that young girls are so exposed to violence in close relationships must be increased. Children's peace crime means that, since 1 July 2021, it is punishable to expose a child to witness certain criminal acts in the form of, for example, violent and sexual crimes in close relationships. If we want children to grow up in safety, further measures must be taken. This applies above all to custody, housing and social relations. When a guardian, usually a father, chooses to use violence against his partner, often with the child as a witness, the exposed child should not have to have contact with the perpetrator the father has chosen to become. The child is a victim of crime. Each measure should be seen in the light of this. This is how we prevent children and young people from getting involved in crime. This is how we increase the conditions for security. Liberals will continue to work to equip Sweden for a new era, raise difficult questions, honestly describe the challenges ahead and deliver liberal answers. These are answers that can rarely be summed up in the title of a election poster or even completely sorted out in the rapid shifts of the television debates. We're not going to paint, we're not going to paint, we're not going to paint, we're not going to paint. We're not going to paint, we're not going to Nor will we pretend that there are simple solutions to difficult problems. But we will always work for greater security. That's the only way we can all experience freedom. We support all our reservations, Madam President, but we only ask for the approval of reservation 54.
i-KybtAcNyaEjAfzmcnAt4hC	Madam President, I would like It seems appropriate that it is precisely in police matters that I make my debut in this speaker's chair. I'm from the police department, from the street in Rinkeby. Although it was a few months ago, these questions are of course very close to my heart. The police profession, helping, protecting and correcting, is in many ways the best profession you can have. I still feel that. Our task in this congregation is to ensure that the police who work in the field with intervention, crime prevention and investigations have the right conditions to do their incredibly important job. They don't today. First of all, we're far too few cops. We've been here a long time. There have been clear shortcomings in virtually all parts of the core business. The amount of crime that could be investigated is being piled up. You find excuses and reasons to close down things that could have led to conviction if you had enough time and staff. Preventive work is a priority because of the need to deal with alarms received and investigations received. The serious violence is currently at an all-time high-level level in the field of firearms, murder and blasting. Clearly, today the police do not have the conditions to solve their task. At the same time, about half of the seats at the Police College are empty. Even if we have growth going on, it is going too slow. We also have several experienced police officers who are gradually leaving the profession due to lack of pay, lack of working environment or frustration over difficulties in fulfilling their mission in a satisfactory manner. This is a development that we need to turn around. Some that are particularly close to the Green Party are the local crime prevention work. Many more district police officers are needed who have the right conditions and tools to work crime prevention in close collaboration with their respective local communities, build trust, build relationships and act as a frontier. Here, too, the Police Authority has a lesson to do in management and control. There is too much of the resource in central functions and too little in the police areas. We also have police officers who are district police and work crime prevention or repression who sit in receptions or the police contact centre due to a lack of money. Here, the Green Party has submitted committee initiatives aimed at strengthening the police financially so that civilians can be hired to fill those posts and thus allow those police officers to engage in police work. I would say this is a minimum requirement. We could hire many more civilians and make police operations more efficient while waiting to fill in with police officers as well. As you know, it takes a little longer to train and strengthen the police part of the Politiska området. But this is an emergency. The police urgently need to strengthen the civilian functions that can be strengthened in order to release police officers to police work. It is also something that the Polisförbundet, among other things, advocates. Then all my colleagues out there need better employment conditions and a better working environment. Unfortunately, threats and violence against police officers are still increasing. As a legislative assembly, we need to ensure that it is as easy as possible for police officers, of course with the protection of the rule of law, to protect their identity and to protect the private sphere from the professional. We also need to have much more systematic work on health and safety at work. This applies not least to the terrible riots, where several police officers could have been killed. I would say that it was fortunate that it was not police officers who died in the vile attacks they were subjected to in some of our cities. This brings to light shortcomings in the police's work environment and police management and control. Of course, being a cop involves certain risks. It's part of the profession. However, the fact that the agency is unable to prepare its organisation for the riots that became, not in Skäggetorp at the first time but later in Norrköping and Örebro, is unacceptable. That is not acceptable, and as has been pointed out in this House earlier today, the Police Federation has also reported this. It is an example of the importance of police officers having a good working environment. It also affects the ability to replenish and recruit police officers. There are other questions as well. The police I would say is Sweden's most important authority, but the police do not work alone. The crime prevention mission of municipalities is incredibly important. It needs to be strengthened, of course in legislation but also in practice. Municipalities have normally seen a much larger resource to put in place to coordinate crime prevention work. I know that from experience when I've been working on this for quite a few years. And the municipalities need to tap up. There is a need to ensure that crime prevention hubs exist locally where police and various parts of municipal activities are connected, as well as other authorities, civil society and entrepreneurs, and to mobilise the local community in the prevention of crime. This is particularly important when it comes to the work to prevent insocialisation and recruitment for crime. The police's part in this is smaller than, for example, the school's and social services' but probably so important, and the collaboration needs to work better than it does today. In order to free up police resources for police tasks, where relationship-building crime prevention is just as important as calls and investigations, the police's tasks still need to be refined. There is much that the police are doing today that others could handle, such as the passport management that has caused chaos but also drawn police resources from police core operations. In conclusion, it is difficult to exaggerate the importance of a functioning police service. It is absolutely essential to upholding the social contract. I also know from experience that a strong police officer who is present in all local communities also strengthens the rest of society. You make the school better. You make social services better. It makes leisure activities better. Civil society can be strengthened and entrepreneurship supported. So when we strengthen the police, we also strengthen the whole community.
i-W72oJhUobAQmqtLz9vuTLA	Madam President, I would like A strong society can and should never accept organised crime. And above all, we should never accept that young people fall between the chairs and end up in an alienation where crime is the only option – not yesterday, not today and not tomorrow. For me as a social democrat, the starting point is clear: Sweden stands at its strongest when we face crises together, when we fight together to do both, when we are stone hard against crime but together also work preventively. So, of course, we must also face the increasingly serious criminality that is poisoning our society today and the segregation that enables the recruitment of young men in particular to the increasingly serious crime. Madam President, I would like We are currently in the Chamber debating, among other things, the report by the Committee on Justice 27 Young offenders, a report containing approximately 90 requests from the general period of exercise and a large number of announcements. However, we should be aware that seven of these come from a false committee majority which will not be heard during the vote on the report. On the basis of the false majority, I must agree to the following reservations: Nos l, 4, 16, 22, 23 and 31, and No 2, where the Environment Party has verbally announced a change in its position in committee. Having been in another committee for seven years, I see the Legal Affairs Committee's use of the announcement tool as very strange. The possibility for the Riksdag to make use of announcements is a strong and important tool, and of course the Riksdag should have the opportunity to put its foot down and choose a different direction from that shown by the Government. However, putting forward proposals for announcements on issues where there have already been announcements that are not final or where the government is already in various ways already engaged in investigations or legislative proposals, for me, is nothing more than trying to give the impression that the parliament has a different will than the government, which is often not true. Police, penitentiary, prosecutors and courts should of course have the staff and tools they need to fight serious crime. During the debate, we will probably hear some of these proposals from the other parties. But sometimes the proposal which we Social Democrats believe goes too far and which research does not support either. It is clear that these proposals are not enough – that they are only half the solution and, at worst, a solution which, according to research, can have the opposite effect and in itself lead to more serious crime. We know that other things have to be done too. Together, we must work to ensure that we do not have vulnerable residential areas where young people do not pass school. Together, we must ensure that there are no parts of society where children are not allowed to see their parents go to work because they have not learned Swedish. Together, we must halt the negative development in areas where associations withdraw and adult role models are lacking. Together, we must resolve the housing crisis, overcrowding, drug trafficking and the absence of the state and authorities in our vulnerable areas. Together, we must ensure that society breaks people's exclusion. Madam President, I would like As a mother and politician, but above all as a teacher, I believe that school is the key to freedom and provides a stronger society and an increased community. The school provides all children and young people with knowledge but also opportunities for positive life choices. The school is a meeting place for people with different backgrounds and conveys and portrays the inviolability of human dignity, the equal value of all people, equality between women and men and solidarity between people. The school could play a crucial role in preventing the emergence of young offenders. Unfortunately, however, the Swedish school has become a market-liberal experiment that opposes many of these visions. This is an experiment where too many students do not pass school, which has led to increased segregation and exclusion, and where pupil health has to stand back. It is an experiment in which our children and young people have become customers that schools can sift away and where profit has become more important than both knowledge transfer and core work. Failure at school is too much of a starting point for a criminal course. This is, of course, a disgrace to a country like Sweden. As a social democrat, I am therefore proud that we as a party do not have tunnel vision but dare to pursue several issues at the same time. We see that school, the labour market, social services, the housing market, sport and culture are just as crucial in overcoming juvenile delinquency as more police officers and harsher penalties. We do both, for real. Madam President, I would like To wake up in the morning and read in the newspaper how young people shoot, rob, demean or hurt other people hurts. However, I have also realized that I read these articles with a little different eyes. Let me be clear: the crimes I read about are to be met with resistance and condemned. The criminals who commit them shall be prosecuted and convicted. But in the articles I always look for that specific part that makes me the most angry and that I always hope will not be included. Never again do I want to read the words of a neighbor, a teacher or another adult who in an interview says: I saw it coming already when he was a child. These words symbolise a society that has failed and adults who have chosen to close their eyes instead of a society that has taken responsibility. This is not how Sweden should look in 2022. Sweden can do better. Madam President, I would like Society's fight against crime must be merciless. Of course, young people's crime is also a threat to the whole of democratic society and must be combated by all means. The rule of law should react strongly to crime. Through the sanctions a crime may we demonstrate our values and what is right and what is wrong. But children are children. However, those who commit a crime and are old enough should of course expect severe sanctions, while ensuring that other young people do not end up in the same situation. All of this, Madam President, the Socialist Government has also worked for. Since we took office in 2014, we have, among other things, tightened the penalties for some sixty crimes and introduced the penalty for youth surveillance. We have abolished the penalty for young adults in serious crime. We have increased resources to schools and social services in vulnerable areas. We've given the police more resources and more colleagues. But we also want to tighten the penalties for recruiting young people for crime. We want to increase social efforts and improve accessibility to social services' activities and field assistants in the evenings and weekends. We want to turn over every stone to break the segregation. We want to strengthen the ability of social services to act early. We want to improve the possibility of sharing information between different municipalities' social services as well as between police and social services. And we want to legislate on crime prevention for all municipalities. Madam President, I would like Of course, serious crime among young people is a major problem. But it's when faith in the future is lost that gangs manage to recruit young people into an alternative we don't want them to end up in. We will continue to fight the crimes but also the causes of the crimes. The most effective way to prevent young people from choosing crime is to offer something better: good education, meaningful leisure time, a first job, the opportunity to leave home. Successful law enforcement requires early action and the commitment of society as a whole. Together we create a better and safer society.
i-Db3Cnu2vgch3oH8gBzWcjk	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the motion report on young offenders. I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation number 6 on the prevention of crime against young criminals. We see a social development where crime creeps further down in the ages. Ten to twelve-year-olds are recruited by criminal gangs. It's terrible. Young people commit grosser and grosser crimes. An increasing number of young offenders between 15 and 17 are being prosecuted and sentenced for murder, attempted murder and accessory to murder. Gun violence has increased strongly among minors. Another type of crime that has increased greatly is juvenile robbery, where young people rob other children and young people. These robberies often involve humiliation, which is terrible. The Crime Prevention Council presented a report last year. It showed that the robberies were getting rougher and rougher and that there were many reasons for them. The usual was that they were about forcing money or about an underlying conflict. But the report also showed that it was common to show power and superiority against the robbery victim, as was often shown by urinating on the victim or by other degrading elements. What's wrong with these people? A normal person would not even think of urinating on another person. It's so wrong, it's crazy and it's bad that I get upset. How can you just do that? I don't get it. Effective crime prevention measures are needed, where society is early and powerful in identifying crimes. The earlier society reacts, the greater the chances of breaking the criminal path. In recent years the development of alienation areas has created a breeding ground for gangs and organised crime to grow ever stronger. Young people are often used to sell and transport drugs, and drug crime generates money that attracts young people. The consequences for this group of young people today are far too weak and insignificant, quite simply. The fight against juvenile delinquency must be comprehensive and systematic. Social services, police and other authorities must work together to ensure that crime prevention measures are implemented early on when young people commit crimes. Today, a young person may be arrested for quite serious crimes and be back on the street a few hours later, even though the risk of relapse is high. It creates insecurity and damages people's trust in society. The group of young people who repeatedly commit serious crimes must leave our streets and squares. Sweden needs a much tougher grip on juvenile delinquency. It has gone far too far without society having reacted in a powerful way. Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats have been ruling for eight years. During these years, crime has become more and more severe. Last week, Magdalena Andersson held a press conference in which she acknowledged that her own government had completely failed to fight crime. Just note what happened during the Easter riots. It's completely derailed. Sweden is an unsafe country today. Shooting has become a daily crime. Innocent people are shot to death. Even twelve - year - olds are shot to death, and children are shot at in a playground. It's scary. But at last Andersson admits that the government has failed in its most important task. She has promised to turn every stone around to fight crime. But that's not true. Those are empty words. Only in this report are several proposals that would have an impact on the fight against crime. But the Social Democrats are voting against. Madam President, I would like We Moderates have many good proposals that would reduce juvenile delinquency. I don't have time to mention them all. I've chosen two of the Moderates' proposals. The first concerns the prevention of crime against young criminals. There is a new group of young adults in prisons that pose new challenges for the prison system but major problems for society. These are men from socially vulnerable areas who have low trust in public authorities and often, even at a young age, are heavily criminalised and have substance abuse problems. Often there is no interest in leaving the crime at all. It imposes new requirements on the content of enforcement, so that these people will receive support to leave crime. The Moderates want an investigation to be set up, including on the basis of experience in other countries, to take a concerted approach to this group of individuals and to propose appropriate crime prevention and enforcement measures that would lead these people to leave crime. Morgan Johansson usually says in almost every debate that the Moderates have no crime prevention proposals at all. That's wrong. We have this proposal, for example, which I think would be quite useful. But the Social Democrats will vote against it. The second of the Moderates' proposals that I would like to mention concerns the penalty discount for young people. Today, young adults aged 18 to 20 are treated differently through a penalty discount. We believe that those who are adult and adult and commit a crime should also be treated as adults when it comes to penalties. At the beginning of the year, the penalty rebate was removed for crimes with a minimum sentence of one year in prison. This means that a 20-year-old will continue to receive a penalty discount when he commits, for example, an abuse of the standard grade. Here I can give you an example: a man hit a woman in the face with a hard thing. The woman suffered severe tooth damage, one tooth was completely knocked out and another was knocked off in half. The man was sentenced for assault of the standard grade with a sentence value of three months imprisonment by both the District Court and the Court of Appeal. The government's change of law means that when a 20-year-old knocks out his girlfriend's teeth, he still gets a penalty discount as this is deemed to be assault of the normal grade. How can the feminist government feel that this is a good thing? A 20-year-old can knock out his girlfriend's teeth and get a penalty discount. It is certainly not feminist politics. But that is the policy of the Social Democrats on justice. Madam President, I would like Finally, we are getting seven proposals for announcements on this matter. This applies, for example, to the reduction of the limit for the arrest of young people, to a new comprehensive investigation into juvenile robbery, to the strengthening of youth surveillance, and more. We heard the Socialist Member here earlier say that it is breaking open doors to come up with new announcements when there are old ones. It's just that the government is incredibly slow when it comes to delivering on announcements. We simply have to push so that they get a little bit of speed. Then we sometimes have to make announcements, and sometimes we also set a year for when it will last happen. To conclude, I would like to say once again that I agree with Magdalena Andersson that her government has completely failed to fight crime in Sweden. This is clear from the Easter riots and from the point of view of youth robberies, which have increased and become worse. The shootings broke record in the first quarter of this year. Basically, two people are shot to death every week in Sweden. The Social Democrats have lost their grip. We also heard that Sweden can do better. Yes, Sweden can do better, but then we must have another government this autumn.
i-NYptssYuPXURKPoodgNiyA	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report 'Young offenders'. Mention should be made of the fact that young offenders in no way constitute a homogeneous group. Young people commit various crimes for various reasons. The report is broad, and there are a variety of points that concern everything from organisational responsibility for young offenders to sanctions for young people. What can be noted, however, is that young offenders today commit many crimes and far too much serious crimes. Unfortunately, there are far too many examples of how children with several years left until the age of criminality are included in gang crime. We see how children under the age of 15 can start selling drugs, storing arms parts or running errands for the elderly in the network. A few years later, it will be time to use violence to order the elderly, and before some turn 18, they have been asked to, and perhaps tried or succeeded, murder someone. Against this gloomy background, it is at least positive that we in committee have managed to find a majority in order to propose 13 announcements that would really make a difference, even if not all of them have a majority in this House. These are proposals which, in various ways, would have meant that we were better placed to prevent the criminality of young people, and they would have meant more reasonable penalties for young people. Among other things, this is a reduction in the arrest limit for young people, so that the police are not forced to allow young people to return directly to crime where there is already a reasonable suspicion of crime. It is a question of having the Prison Service set up a unit that takes over responsibility for young offenders, so that serious criminal youth become the responsibility of the state and not the municipalities, and that responsibility for closed juvenile care is transferred from Sis to the Prison Service. This means that youth monitoring can be used during weekdays and to a greater extent adapted individually, and that neglect should lead to a greater end to youth monitoring and be replaced by care under LVU or closed youth care. This is a youth robbery, a phenomenon that has involved me in Parliament and which I wish to dwell on a little longer. The robberies carried out by young people are probably among the most exposed and mediated crimes that young people are responsible for. This is no wonder at all, given the development. We have seen a sharp increase in the near future, while the rawness has become more severe, something that was not least highlighted in the Crime Prevention Council's report in the autumn. Between 2013 and 2019 there was a 250 percent increase in reported youth robbery – from 1,002 to 2,489. The pandemic and its restrictions subsequently resulted in some of a decrease, but the trend has been clear. Moreover, we have all been able to read about how the robbers today do not always settle for the victim's valuables, designer clothes or other belongings. Even though they don't have to use violence, they do. The violence is sometimes characterized by pure humiliation. Violent and degrading acts are sometimes filmed and distributed in social media. The perpetrators want to ensure that as many people as possible take part in their abuse. In this way they establish dominance and spread terror while the suffering of the victims becomes even greater and humiliation becomes total. When you read testimony from, or yourself talk to, young people who have suffered humiliation robbery, it is quite clear that today's punishment in no way weighs up the deeds to which the victims of crime have been subjected. It is therefore gratifying that the committee believes that the minimum penalty for normal rate robberies should be raised to a minimum of one year and six months, and that all muggings with degrading features should be assessed as serious robberies and lead to a minimum of five years in prison. However, the measures against youth robbery which we in the committee have found a majority in favour of will not become a reality in the near future, because for various reasons the Social Democrats, the Left Party, the Green Party, the Center Party and the Liberals reserve themselves and will vote against it in this House. Madam President, I would like Youth robbery, as well as other serious crimes committed by young people, raises another issue, which we dealt with in committee in the autumn, namely the youth discount. That question is being re-educated. The government dared last autumn only to deal with certain crimes committed by young adult offenders between the ages of 18 and 21. It was felt that 20-year-olds would still receive an age-based discount on their sentence if they abused or threatened a Witness, for example. The government also turned a blind eye to the need for both a reduced criminal age and a review of the youth rebate for young offenders between the ages of 15 and 18. The Swedish Democrats saw these shortcomings in the Government's proposal and went the furthest in their follow-up motion through proposals for sharp legal text to address some of the shortcomings and announcements to address other shortcomings. Unfortunately, we did not receive support in the committee for our proposal to abolish penalty reduction for all legal offenders without delay and to substantially reduce the youth rebate for those aged 15 to 17. But at least we managed to send a statement to the government to abolish the penalty for those over 18, which is a good start. In the report we are debating today, we are partly returning in these cases in reservation 17 on the reduction of the age of the criminal authority and in reservation 21 on the penalty rebate for 15 to 17-year-olds. Madam President, I would like I believe that I have borne in mind the need for these measures, which is as great today as last autumn when the bill was dealt with. I would therefore like to ask for the approval of Amendment No 21.
i-SkHDBHHmwSHYk4CtmusxYi	Madam President, I would like Today, in this House, we are debating the report 'Young offenders'. Young offenders-- who are they? Yes, it is young people who have in one way or another violated some penalty. It is young people for whom it should be a matter of course to see a whole life ahead of them, an orderly and legal life, but unfortunately that is not the case for everyone everywhere. Today, people as young as 8 to 9 years of age – Ellen Juntti said 10 – 12 years of age; I have heard 8 – 9 years of age – are used by criminals. 8 - 9 - year - old children are lured into a world that initially includes appreciation and some small reward for a simpler mission. These are tasks that at first may seem rather harmless, at least from the child's perspective. And the elderly who turn to these children – not infrequently they actively seek out these children – know how to lure and poke, confirm and reward. Yes, a young lawbreaker is the 9-year-old boy running away with a small packet in his hand that contains a lot of illicit pills and leaves it in a designated place and then runs home again, with a hundred in his hand – a reward for a job well done. The 9-year-old has actually committed a criminal act but not a criminal act. And it shouldn't be punishable. Madam President, I would like A nine-year-old is a child. A nine-year-old doesn't have any developed consequence thinking at all. This is fully developed only in adulthood, the forward age of 25, to be precise. It is against this background that we have special legislation for the group of young offenders. Of course, that group is not homogeneous, far from it. In addition to the nine-year-old mentioned earlier, it escapes the 17-year-old who, with a clean exterior and an innocent look, claims to have lent his bank account to a superficial acquaintance, as a clean service. She sees nothing at all strange in the fact that large sums of money have fallen into her account. The money she would just swish on to some people that that acquaintance said would have them. The group of young offenders also holds the 15-year-old who, together with some even-old comrades, consistently harassed the owner of the convenience store, where they went in and picked up what they wanted and when they didn't get it threatened and maybe picked up a knife. It is a 15-year-old who brings the same cocky attitude into the courtroom and who treats the harassed shopkeeper, when he leaves his story, with a mockery. Since there is no typical example of a young offenders – there are differences in age, gender and home conditions – the measures taken by society to prevent young people from committing more crimes must, of course, differ. Here it is important that we can find the right measures, which have an effect on the individual in question, and as early as possible. To manage to get a young person not to continue on a criminal course or, preferably, never to go into it is a huge win for many involved. It prevents the suffering of victims who would otherwise get in this person's way as well as the suffering of relatives. And instead of having a criminal individual who costs society huge sums, we get a social citizen who contributes. Madam President, I would like There are several proposals for announcements in this report that deal with matters already being prepared within the Government Office. It's under investigation, as has been mentioned earlier here today. The announcements are that the government must speed up. This applies, for example, to investigations of children under the age of 15. Some parties feel that things are going too slowly, despite the fact that a report has been presented on better measures in this area. For my part, I prefer to put elaborate proposals on the table when it is time to take a stand, because if the proposals are to achieve the intended effect, we need a comprehensive look-through and careful balance. However, there is one area where the problem picture is so serious and the consequences of the current shortcomings are so great that measures cannot actually wait, and that is the enforcement of the sanction of closed juvenile care. It is a sanction imposed on young people who have committed serious crimes. These sanctions are being enforced today at Sis-hem. Unfortunately, we have received a number of reports on how the security of these homes is flawed and how they fail to deal with young serious criminals. Here responsibility must be transferred to the Prison Service as soon as possible in order for these convicted persons to be dealt with in an acceptable and legally secure manner. Madam President, I would like I was in Kalmar the other week. There the municipality has decided on a structured so-called SSPF collaboration. It is a question of interaction between school, social services, police and leisure. The aim is to prevent juvenile delinquency and find the right measures for young people at risk. This should be done by early, from the age of ten, picking up young people who exhibit standard-breaking behaviour, such as schooling or moving in inappropriate environments. Getting the parents on the train breaks the confidentiality between the cooperating authorities. The school staff can tell their contact at the social welfare office what you see when the kid is in school, and the social services can get data from the police who have seen the kid move around in a bunch. By connecting in the field of leisure, you want to find other contexts for the young person where there may be meaningful activities, and preferably adult role models, outside the immediate circle. We in the Center Party believe that municipalities play a crucial role in crime prevention. However, there are currently tasks that lie on the municipalities, where it can be discussed whether they should remain there. We believe that there is a need to review the distribution of responsibilities and the most appropriate measures for young people who, due to their own behaviour, are regularly taken care of in accordance with the Act on the Care of Young People and are then updated by the municipality's social services. The same applies to young people under the age of 15 who show serious criminal behaviour. These young people may need to be treated with rehabilitation measures used for criminals rather than with traditional interventions from social services. We believe that there needs to be a proper analysis of which actions are most effective and who should bear the headship of the various actions. In conclusion, I would like to ask for reservation 5 under paragraph 5.
i-QhsorA8cRJ6UjkMz36KstF	Madam President, I would like Lead the young man into the way he should go, and he will follow it even as an old man. The quote is still valid, even if the words are thousand years old. The message in the quotation should form the basis for one of the most important tasks of society, namely to contribute to the positive growth and development of children and young people. Man needs to live in union with others and to have working relationships with his fellow human beings in order to feel good and be able to develop. The most basic form of community is the family, where people of different generations meet in love and trust. Safe and well-functioning families are simply a must for society as a whole to function and grow strong. A society based on community and trust depends on people feeling safe in everyday life. Crime must therefore be combated and prevented. When it comes to the latter, the family is an invaluable resource. The role of the family in raising and leading young people cannot be stressed enough. While each person is responsible for his or her own actions, criminal acts cannot be reduced to either growing up or the social environment. But a supportive family policy is one of the most important efforts to minimise the risk of a youth falling into the wrong circles with criminality and crime as a result. Good standards and values are passed on between generations and therefore parental responsibility needs to be strengthened in our society. Madam President, I would like A majority in the committee supports proposals for 13 announcements on the subject of young offenders. Of course, these announcements can be discussed. Is it the case that the government has delivered during its two terms of office? Yes, in some cases only after announcements. Has the government's deliveries slowed down or hindered development? No, I think we can agree on that. Does the government act promptly after an announcement? No, very rarely. In the light of this, it is no wonder that a majority in the Committee on Justice agrees with the proposals for announcements. During the last parliamentary year, they were 101, and we will see what we land in this parliamentary year. After eight years with an S-led government, much remains to be done for an M-KD government when it takes office after 11 September. Madam President, I would like Much of what we are debating and dealing with in this matter is about young offenders. Unfortunately, in today's society, we see how younger perpetrators are becoming increasingly common, that they are carrying out a large number of and in many cases also much more serious crimes. These perpetrators must be sentenced to the relevant penalties, which mean that a criminal life choice is broken and that they find their way back to a life without crime. In light of this, a special unit of the Prison Service is needed to take responsibility for young offenders who have committed serious violent or other serious crimes. Prison services have extensive experience in dealing with people who have committed crimes and can offer serious criminal young people the same rehabilitation measures that are used for criminals in general. The aim is not primarily to punish but to take measures that are better able to succeed than traditional social services. More use should be made of youth monitoring. And with regard to the responsibility for the enforcement of closed juvenile care, we Christian Democrats, like many other parties, believe that such a move needs to be made from Sis to the Prison Service. Youth prisons should also be introduced where security is significantly higher than at current youth homes. Special youth detention also needs to be set up to adapt to the needs and conditions of young people. In addition, efforts must be made to enable young people in prison to study. Madam President, I would like The abolition of the penalty rebate for young adults has been mentioned earlier in the debate. Clearly, much more needs to be done to tackle young criminals. Punishment discounts also extend considerably beyond the age of government. Until the perpetrators turn 21, they receive significant penalty rebates and, like other parties, we want to see the youth rebate abolished for people between 18 and 21 years of age. Unfortunately, however, this is not enough in the light of the criminal developments we are now seeing. Every younger person commits and is convicted of more serious crimes, including murder. This also applies to persons under the age of 18. It is of the utmost importance that persons under the age of 18 who commit serious crimes can be sentenced to severe punishment. The report on the abolition of penalties also proposed a much sharper stairway, and we believe that there is a need to minimise penalties even for those under the age of 18. Against this background, I would like to endorse reservation 20. Madam President, I would like In addition to the measures I have mentioned before, a number of measures are needed in the social field. Social services need to be strengthened. The cooperation model known as SSPF, between schools, social services, police and leisure, also needs to be strengthened to prevent children from entering or continuing with criminal behaviour or drug abuse. Social services, the police and other authorities must be able to work together so that crime prevention measures are put in place early. For this to happen, confidentiality barriers must be removed in order to obtain information about young people so that the information can be shared between police and social services in order to prevent or investigate crimes that may lead to prison. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats believe that many actors need to work together in the important work to create a safer Sweden and find ways to contribute to positive growth and development for all children and young people. This requires a supportive family policy, a good school, an investment in young people's growing-up environment, a thorough crime prevention work and an offensive criminal policy. We Christian Democrats support the announcements made in this area and, of course, also the proposals put forward by the Christian Democrats in various motions. However, we ask that only reservation 20 be approved.
i-JhzNqvHiafscBKZZLB22vp	Madam President, I would like The clips in the music video flash by. It's guns and bills and young, skinny guys in training suits dancing with automatic carbs in front of cars on idle. The verse tells of a life without borders, a life of money, drugs, and respect — a life where you are someone. In reality, a cold wind blows up dust in a worn-out center. At the stairs to the kiosk hang young guys in the same jackets and with the same look as the guys in the music video, with the hoods folded up and face masks on, waiting for another buyer and to sell additional drugs. Here they stand every night and far into the night. Most are already convicted of lines of crime. Some have been to Sis-hem, and everyone has already had more trouble talks than they can remember. It's a sad everyday life. It's crass and it's hopeless. It is a sad and pale copy of the lifestyle sold in all videos online. Because it's in ordinary, poor teenage rooms, in some hidden shoe box where Mom doesn't usually check out, as the gun is stored. It is in the basement of an apartment building that the grass is stowed away. In this world, loyalty shifts quickly. In this world a debt can arise out of nothing. In this world, insecurity prevails. Yet new recruits are in line — children in hoodies who are raised into a destructive culture by their associations, by music and by older role models. Some are grown up in worn-out million - dollar programs and overcrowding, others without missing anything. Some have single parents who do not speak the language, others have both one and two parents who work. It's kids and kids, and they're almost always born here. They should have had every opportunity to choose a different path. Yet they're standing there again tonight, selling in the squares and in the basements, and yet they're soon there on the sidewalks, shot, because they've been seduced by a dream that's sold everywhere and because no one really has been able to stop them. The problems of a new era have at best been met by yesterday's response, and some have not even wanted to admit that there have been problems. A gang does not establish itself overnight, but it grows out of a mix of social vulnerability. I have met young guys who have been convicted of serious crimes or who are living in a criminal environment and who have given a sad answer to the question .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The young guys answer me that it's too late: a little something should have been done when I was a child. ..................................................... It is about children who have lived in homes where the father's violence has been constantly present during childhood. That's when no one reacted. It's about guys who have then practiced violence and who describe how they have then met with severe reactions. Of course, the violence of young boys should be met with powerful reactions, but as a child they should have been faced with equally powerful measures when they were exposed to and witnessed domestic violence. Madam President, I would like We need to talk more clearly about the obligations and responsibilities of parents. The strong parental right poses a threat to all vulnerable children, because children are forced to prove so much before they are believed. There are vulnerable children who do not receive the early intervention they are entitled to and need, and there are violent mothers who do not receive support. Madam President, I would like The campaign against social services that wants to put the picture that social services kidnap children is terrible. The threat to social security secretaries must be taken very seriously. It is about threats to influence social services to make decisive decisions – threats to our entire democracy. At the same time, we see children who are involved when mothers and fathers throw stones at the police, children lying in the stroller when the stones hail and children cycling around on small bikes to keep track of when parents hate and rape the police. There must be consequences. The choice to use force against the police is a choice that must lead to child custody. The choice to use violence and hate Swedish police is a threat to our democracy – point. Social secretaries working in direct contact with individuals, not least in communities and residential areas where people know each other, may need support in the event of threats and violence. A national support function is needed in investigation, decision-making and execution to break the power of gangs in the parallel communities we have allowed to emerge. The police must be strengthened and the relevant penalties imposed. At the same time, society must work early, clearly and together. Confidentiality must never be an obstacle to the protection of children and young people. Madam President, I would like According to Brå, a quarter of serious crimes committed by minors are not investigated. It doesn't make sense. Children should not be punished, but the message to children and young people will be completely misplaced if they get used to the fact that crimes they commit will never be investigated. Crimes committed by minors must be investigated. The investigation can also help to detect adult criminals who use children to commit crimes. The role of municipalities in crime prevention must be regulated by law. However, there is no more important compensatory measure than a good school. A successful schooling is a vaccine that can constitute the resistance to a criminal life. A national exit programme for people who want to leave crime behind after serving time also needs to be introduced. Convicted juvenile delinquents should not be confused with young people taken care of by the LVU. Special youth prisons for the age group 15-17 years shall be run under the supervision of the Prison Service. These should have strong staffing that is specially trained to help young people break a criminal lifestyle. It is not possible to debate young offenders without highlighting the extensive violence that young guys are inflicting on young girls. Many times it is in the first relationship. Action is needed here, knowledge needs to be increased and resources created. We cannot pretend that there are simple solutions to difficult problems, Madam President. But we will continue to work for a freer but also less blue-eyed Sweden – for a country that sees developments coming and meets it with pragmatic policies, not a country that is repeatedly surprised by reality. Madam President, I would like I have to conclude by mentioning what the Member of the Social Democrats, Anna Wallentheim, said about free schools. This report, too, takes them up as some sort of reason, and we have also heard the Prime Minister express this. I think it's scary. I think it is absolutely a debate to be held and changes to be made, but we know that 26 out of 28 schools where children do not succeed are municipal schools. Putting the responsibility on free schools then leads to a simplistic and erroneous debate. We're not supposed to have tunnel vision, I agree. But the principle of the best interests of the child, for example, which we have fought so much for in the Committee on Social Affairs, is precisely the principle that the Social Democrats do not want to support. I believe in seeing the problem as it is and discussing the right issues at the right time. I request the approval of reservation 12.
i-Kkwku4f7zKyBMszWwsexpe	Madam President, I would like We have today to debate the Justice Committee's 28 report, which is a motion for a resolution. First of all, I would like to endorse our reservations 1 and 2. There is a so-called false majority – we can at least assume that the majority in this House does not reflect the committee's original proposal. For the sake of time, I would simply like to express my support for these two reservations. Weapons issues are involved; one thing is certain. The terrorist attacks in Paris and Brussels put tremendous pressure on those responsible to better coordinate police action and bring laws to combat terrorism in the EU. Only the terrorist attack in Paris claimed 130 deaths, and 350 people were injured. The European Parliament acted enormously. It was necessary and good. In connection with the implementation it has been a bit tricky, not only in Sweden but also in other parts of the European family. You end up in endless discussions about technicalities and opposing interests. This applies not only to arms issues, but also to many other areas. With regard to the implementation that we have had to deal with for a long time, and that several of these motions are about, it is the 2017 amendment directive to the Arms Directive that the government has on several occasions tried to present a proposal on to get this implemented. However, the Parliament has not understood that it has managed to interfere with what is the famous minimum level. Our committee has turned in and out in order to find the courage to move forward. I believe, of course, that the government has done the best it can. Now the risk is enormous – or it may even be a fact – that we are faced with the shard, and then we need to find solutions together. My view is that, basically, there is a genuine will among the members of the committee to find a way forward and, together with the government, to resolve this issue before the multi-million-dollar sums begin to tick out. We can have that money for other goods in society than to pay a fine to the European Union. I feel that the initiative of the Center Party in committee was a very important step. I also understand that other parties have a constructiveness in the discussions, at least when the media are not present. I do not think anyone in this room believes that we should over-implement the directive. It should not be unduly burdensome for legal gun holders, such as game-mining hunters. During 2021 and 2022, we have put forward various proposals to make it easier for this group. We have put forward proposals and decided on simpler rules for silencers. We have also had discussions about the weapons closet and about the pipes and the end pieces. It is a good thing that we, as politicians, can go out and say that we stand firmly behind the EU arms directive, which was voted through by an extremely broad majority in the European Parliament. A weakening or subjugation of this regulatory framework would be extremely unfortunate for Sweden's safety. This would mean significantly less control over firearms within the EU and risks to safety both in Sweden and at European level. As a result of the infringement procedure that is under way, the knots are burning to start a process. In our announcement, we have indicated that we want the Government to urgently set up an investigation that will produce proposals that meet the requirements of the directive and that can be supported in Parliament. The final part – that it should be proposals that can be supported in the Riksdag – is particularly important. In order to ensure this, the investigation should have a parliamentary reference group including all parliamentary parties. The ambition should be to have sufficient time to meet the Directive's requirements for on-the-spot implementation before 1 January 2023. I would also like, once again, to flag the initiative of the Left Party, which was a good starting point for this. Madam President, I would like We have further announcements to relate to. Perhaps, as we put it in our second reservation, we need to review the whole. We have also said there that we think that we need to review the arms legislation as a whole and make a good and thorough review of it. The craft, such as the timetable and different interfaces, still needs to be chiseled out, and this is of course the government's mission. In addition to the two dossiers where there is a false majority, there are further issues where we have announcements. I would like to comment very briefly on them. We believe that the Police Authority has been given the resources to overcome the need to shorten the length of proceedings, and so do they. That is why we disagree with that announcement. It is the same when it comes to where authorisation decisions are to be made. We have a number of announcements from the Riksdag; the government is well aware of and must deal with. Point roofs, as they say. A number of further reservations relate to timed or decided changes that have already been made or are being prepared and at the forefront of the preparation process. In any case, we do not agree with the substance, and then we reserve ourselves. This applies, for example, to the arms collections; we think it is important to keep them in order. Madam President, I would like I would like to remind you that, in a European perspective, there are currently at least 630 000 weapons reported as either stolen or missing, according to the Schengen Information System. Moreover, the number of small arms in the dark is enormous; it is probably millions of small arms that are on the move in Europe. Most of these weapons have at some time been or have been considered legal in some context. Many of these weapons at international level seek detours or routes into our country and are some of the crime tools that kill lives and make society insecure. We Social Democrats will do everything possible to reverse developments in this part. We will turn mountains, to travester a popular party leader and prime minister. She's talking about rocks, but I don't want to say that sentence, and then people start screwing up. The questions of weapons belong to the rocks and mountains on which it is to be turned. The illegal weapons must be removed from our streets, and it must be done quickly. There are some minor issues, such as how we take control of converted weapons, how we handle 3D-printed weapons and how customs cope with its expanded mission, but also major issues, such as how the war in Ukraine will affect the arms flows in Europe, not least in view of the experience of the Balkans. Finally, Madam President, we have done a lot. Society has been accumulating against the gross violence and against the weapons. We allocate resources. Let's tighten up the laws. We give the police and other law enforcement agencies the tools they require. We will do what is required right into the tile. We will also succeed, because the strong society is always stronger than the gang. In election times such as these, it is important to emphasise that the strong society includes an investment in welfare. It is about getting a real faith in the future of young people and re-establishing the social contract. We do not solve this by reducing taxes. We do not solve this by pointing the finger at the community of children of accident. We do not solve this by withdrawing society.
i-TQ8Boa1GSDWx5W45cAFAhr	Madam President, I would like This is the fourth time that we are standing here debating the arms legislation for the legal hunters, sportsmen and collectors of the country. In his speech Petter Löberg lifted the terrorist activity in Europe and tried to confuse it with Swedish legislation for Sweden's hunters and shooters. It becomes even more remarkable when it is Petter Löberg and the Social Democrats who have been running this country for eight years and who actually have the worst problems with illegal weapons and shootings. But the Social Democrats' medicine against this is and has always been to press for the legal hunters and sportsmen even more, which of course does not produce results. Madam President, I would like Today there are 13 new announcements addressed to the government. The Swedish Parliament has now issued a total of 35 announcements to the government with proposals that would somehow have facilitated the country's legal arms owners. However, despite repeated announcements and decisions, the government has constantly refused to implement Parliament's decisions. It is serious, indeed very serious, that we have a Social Democratic government which does not comply with Parliament's decisions, but which, in debates, declares quite openly that it does not intend to implement Parliament's announcements. Madam President, I would like We have democracy in this country, and it is Parliament's decision that applies. The decisions taken by the Riksdag also apply to the Social Democratic Government of Rosenbad and to Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson. Madam President, I would like The government and Morgan Johansson have now had five years to implement the weapons directive at a minimum level. Even so, it has not been done. Instead, time has been spent putting forward a bill after a bill to try to over-implement the Weapons Directive and further worsen the situation of the country's legal hunters and sportsmen. Now, after five years, the Social Democrats and others in the committee want to set up a new investigation and a new reference group to resolve the issue. This risks delaying the issue even further. What this government should have done, Madam President, is to produce a minimum-level bill with parliamentary support. This would have been done by the government over five years ago if we had had a powerful government that did its job. If the government now wants the help of the Riksdag, perhaps Minister Morgan Johansson could have given priority to being here today in the Riksdag and participating in the debate, one might think. However, as we all see, Morgan Johansson has not prioritised this debate. Madam President, I would like Instead, the government has spent five years making it more difficult for the country's hunters and shooters. In each individual case, attempts have been made to blame the Weapons Directive. They've tried to license magazines. Attempts have been made to force arms collectors to mark their old weapons; thus they would lose their cultural and historical value. They have also tried to destroy the country's sportsmen so that they cannot use the right magazine for their shooting activities. Nor has the government given priority to having a dialogue with its hunters and sportsmen in order to listen to how the weapons directive can be resolved at a minimum level. Instead, it has actively worked to try to blame the new charges on the EU arms directive, which of course has not been truthful. This, in turn, affects the country's hunters and shooters. After five years, the EU is now reacting and demanding that Sweden implement the Weapons Directive. It is a little strange, Madam President, that the EU has not done anything about those EU countries that have not even implemented the 1991 arms directive. Perhaps the EU should start its work there. But now the EU is going to push. The Minister of Justice, the Government and the representatives of the Social Democrats are then in a position to blame this behaviour on the Riksdag, despite the fact that they have a whole department of officials, ministers and other things to resolve these issues. Madam President, I would like Now I want to be very clear: it is the current S-government and the responsible Minister of Justice who has the clear responsibility to produce a bill that implements the EU arms directive at a minimum level and has support in Parliament. But, Madam President, this has not been achieved by the government or the Minister, despite the fact that they have had over five years. No one can blame this government for working quickly and efficiently. The government's inability to solve various problems is a major problem for Sweden in general and for hunters and sportsmen in particular. After all, this is not the only issue with which the government and the country's Minister of Justice have failed, Madam President. We have an increasing gang crime. The number of shootings is increasing, and they are carried out with smuggled illegal weapons. The drugs and the crimes are rampant. It's happening to innocent people. It affects the country's businesses. The country's government has been trying for eight years to blame. We have a minister and a government that does not want to take responsibility, Madam President. Such a government should not rule Sweden. On 11 September this year we can change that. Madam President, I would like A large majority in the Committee on Justice is now proposing further measures to facilitate the country's hunters, shooters and collectors. Among other things, it is a matter of carrying out a complete review of arms legislation in order to facilitate the country's hunters, shooters and collectors. We want to move licensing to the new Wildlife Agency to relieve the police's work and to have an expert authority dealing with hunting and weapons issues. The processing times for weapons licences need to be speeded up. It is not reasonable to have to wait several months for the processing of its new licence. Madam President, I would like We want to remove exceptional reasons from arms legislation and remove the five-year licences. We don't need to have extra control every five years of our sportsmen with regard to certain weapons. We have control of them every day with the system we have in Sweden. Madam President, I would like We also want to facilitate licensing when changing weapons. It should simply be easier to change weapons within your arms wardrobe. We want to review the requirements for weapons licensing, so that assessment is made solely of licensed armaments and not of how pistons and other equipment are designed on the weapon. We'd also like to extend the weapons range. Those with weapons licences who engage in hunting and shooting often need more weapons for their hunting or for their sport. Therefore, the current regulatory framework needs to be reviewed and made easier for an expanded arms wardrobe. We want to review the regulatory framework for the EU passport in order to make it easier for hunters and sportsmen to take their weapons with them in hunting or competitions abroad. We want to review the arms trade, so that those who make only a few transactions per year are not disadvantaged by the legislation. Madam President, I would like We also want to move the supervision of our shooting ranges from the police to the Wildlife Agency, partly to reduce the police's duties, so that the police can engage in the pursuit of criminals and the fight against crime, and partly because the Wildlife Authority can develop the skills that may be needed in the supervision of shooting ranges. Today, the police have an obligation to control the country's approximately 3,200 shooting ranges. Everyone understands that the police have more important things to solve than measuring the shooting walls and the grain size of the sand in the shooting walls. Madam President, I would like We urgently want to review the regulations for the country's arms collectors. With today's interpretation of the legislation, arms collectors who for a long time have worked hard to create and complement their collections are in danger of being forced to sell or destroy their weapons. This development cannot continue. Society would instead value those who work to build valuable cultural values and maintain and maintain our cultural heritage. Madam President, I would like The government has thus received a total of about 35 announcements that had facilitated the country's more than 600 000 legal gun owners – Sweden's hunters, sportsmen and collectors. Sweden's arms owners are subject to the hardest and most extensive control. Madam President, I would like Every day, the country's legal gun owners are controlled. What if this government had the same control over the country's criminals and their handling of illegal weapons? But here the government has failed completely. Despite these 35 announcements, the Social Democrats have chosen to ignore, delay and ignore the democratic decision taken by Parliament. Madam President, I would like I will also remind the Riksdag of an announcement from 2015, seven years ago, to establish a game agency in Sweden. It's still not even started. The government's disregard for Parliament's announcement and decision is very serious. Madam President, I would like Petter Löberg noted all the announcements in his speech, but the remarkable thing is that nothing is done about them. Petter Löberg also referred to small arms that are in operation and have ended up in criminal environments. Ten of these weapons come from the Government Office at Rosenbad where they could not be kept in order. Madam President, I would like This government is probably the most sporting and hunting hostile government we've ever had in this country. Nevertheless, representatives of the Social Democrats will certainly stand before the elections on the barricades and speak warmly for the country's hunters and shooters. But the government has had eight years to resolve this. There has been an opposition that has produced proposals that could have been implemented, but the government has totally ignored it. Madam President, I would like In addition, the government's Minister of Justice has tried to resemble the country's hunters and sportsmen to serious criminals with illegal possession of arms. Not only does this testify to a low level of knowledge on the part of the Minister, but he is also trying to draw the country's legal hunters and shooters into the dirt in a completely unacceptable way. Madam President, I would like On 11 September, we will be able to vote out this hunting and sporting anti-government. Let's do it! I'm in favour of reservation 15.
i-71zs3yuPcVqmWmbnTzAbgm	Madam President, I would like The Social Democratic Government has undeniably failed in much, not least in the area of judicial policy, where we see the spread of gang crime allowed, how the clearance statistics leave much to be desired and how parallel societies are cemented and in which the state lacks control. Nevertheless, arms issues are one of the government's most likely failures in recent mandates. The government is repeatedly run over by Parliament on these issues, as is the case today. The policy that the Social Democratic Government, and the former Social Democratic and Environmental Party governments want to pursue, does not have the support of this House, point. It is therefore an insult to Parliament as an institution and the voters' votes that the government's fanatical resistance to hunters and sportsmen outweighs the decisions made in the elected parliament. Madam President, I would like Today, the Riksdag will again address announcements to the Government on arms issues and once again tell the Government what it wishes to do in this area. There are 13 announcements in the report, but because of the Center Party's fear of conflict with the government, not all will have the support of a majority in this House. Most will, however. Madam President, I would like I do not have time to touch on all of them, but I would like to underline some that have all been heard in this House in the past without the government trying to act and meet the will of the people. The many times absurdly long processing times for weapons licenses have long made life miserable for law-abiding arms owners in Sweden. Hunters who in good time before the hunting season find and buy a desired weapon still risk standing without a rifle at the start of the hunt, as the processing time may be beyond reasonable limits. A government that protects our hundreds of thousands of law-abiding arms owners in Sweden, including me, would of course have worked immediately to solve this problem – but not the Social Democratic Government, not. When the government and the police failed to predict the very expected influx of passport bookings after the pandemic, a special event was announced, and both the police authorities themselves and the government were quick to do their utmost to resolve the resulting breakdown. However, a not so different accident has prevailed for many years, namely in the processing times of arms licences, seemingly without either the police or the government caring enough to remedy the problem. Therefore, as early as 2015, the Riksdag decided on shorter processing times, a decision that has been repeated several times since then. On this theme, the Riksdag has also repeatedly decided to transfer the examination of arms licensing issues to a game agency – both to shorten the processing times and to relieve the already heavily accused Police Authority. In addition to this, the Riksdag has also previously made decisions on, for example, easier licence management in the event of a change of arms and an expanded arms wardrobe. But even here, the government has not managed to get its thumbs out. Madam President, I would like These are just some of the points on which we are going to make new announcements today. One might think that it should be enough at once and that the government is content with a decision in this House to actually address the problems faced by law-abiding arms owners, which the Parliament has decided to try to resolve. But apparently not. The government's unwillingness to make life easier for sportsmen and hunters is so strong that parliamentary decisions are of little importance. Rarely does this become as clear as in the issue of fixed-term licences for fully automatic and single-handed weapons. As early as 2019, the committee considered the motion for a resolution on limited-term permits, which meant that automatic beatings were made daily in the register of charges and suspicions, so it could be questioned whether the system of fixed-term licences fulfilled any real function other than unnecessarily making it more difficult for active and serious shooters. After that, more announcements have been addressed to the government, and eventually the parliament got enough and gave the government a deadline. Before the end of December 2021, the government would return to the Riksdag in this area. Almost six months later, the government has done absolutely nothing. On the contrary, the government has declared that it ignores the repeated parliamentary decisions. As if the government ignores and negligates the elected parliament, Morgan Johansson also chose to attack all Swedish sportsmen. He insinuated that every sporting shooter is a potential terrorist by calling it a sporting tool they use as a terrorist weapon. Both in a debate article and at a committee meeting, he involved Anders Behring Breivik in seeking support for his position. Madam President, I would like The government's actions on arms issues are under criticism, and Morgan Johansson's rhetoric is perhaps the ultimate example of Social Democracy's contempt for hunters and sportsmen. Morgan Johansson is not content with criticising Parliament's will and having an objective debate, but seeks to dehumanise legal arms owners by drawing parallels to a terrible terrorist and to gang criminals – this despite the fact that Morgan Johansson's concerns should be absorbed by the weapons that have disappeared from the Government Office rather than those that are safely kept at home by serious arms owners throughout our country. Had the government and Morgan Johansson seriously wanted to address the potential security risks in our country, they would have reinforced and armed the Swedish customs, introduced search zones and really fought back against gang crime in Sweden – or, for that matter, further tightened the penalties for arms crimes, as the Swedish Democrats, Christian Democrats and Liberals want and have a common reservation on in this report. In other words, the attacks on sportsmen and hunters are only ugly symbolism policies from the government. Madam President, I would like I'm in favour of reservation 13 on gun crimes.
i-W4RwVxmZQaVvn4UDRNNqRE	Madam President, I would like We are going to discuss the motion report on a series of arms issues. The vast majority have been up before, but unfortunately the government has not delivered on the basis of the announcements decided by the Riksdag. One of the biggest issues we are discussing is the implementation of the EU weapons directive. It is a directive that the Center Party voted against already in the European Parliament, but it was pushed through by, among others, the Social Democrats and the Moderates. It is regrettable, but now it is something that we need to deal with in this House. Parliament has already voted against a proposal for such an implementation, because we felt that it went too far in relation to the directive. Tomorrow, I hope that we can instead vote in favour of setting up, on the initiative of the Centre Party, a parliamentary reference group which can produce the next proposal on these issues, so that we can ensure that the directive is actually implemented at an absolute minimum level. The problem is what we realised when it was discussed in Parliament; this directive does not leave our perfectly legal sportsmen and hunters alone. It also affects their weapons management. That is why we need to be careful about implementation at a minimum level. What is the minimum level, however, is slightly different opinions about unfortunately. As with all legislation, there is room for interpretation. I am therefore surprised by the Moderates' opposition to the appointment of the parliamentary reference group. After all, it is intended to ensure that a new proposal presented does not exceed the minimum level. One might think that a party that was involved in pushing through legislation at European level would want to take responsibility for ensuring that the legislation here in Sweden is as good as possible and does not affect hunters and sportsmen unnecessarily. Unfortunately, however, they do not seem to be very alert. Maybe it's because it doesn't give you quite the same sharp points of speech. On the other hand, it would have produced much better results. For the Center Party, it is precisely the results that are important. That is why we are taking this initiative, even though we voted against the directive in Europe. We need to make it easier for our hunters and our sportsmen in the country. It is remarkable that the government has not done anything with all the announcements that have been addressed to them by this House on these issues. We know that the weapons of hunters and sportsmen are not the problem when it comes to organised crime. They have excellent weapons management. But they are affected in the same way as everyone else, and perhaps harder than the illegal arms management, by the strengthened demands. We need to ensure that the announcements made by the Parliament to the government become a reality, so that the weapons management of hunters and sportsmen is not made worse. The Swedish Democrats have claimed here today that the Center Party does not dare to take a conflict with the government. However, anyone who reads the documents sees that what we vote differently about is precisely the parliamentary reference group. We want it not only to look at the European directive, but also to have a review of the arms legislation as a whole. This House has, of course, made announcements that it needs to be improved. I would simply like to express my support for reservations 1 and 2.
i-XNDnu642JA5Zx9tSb7w8Ai	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, today we can see that the gross and gang-related violence is taking new paths in our society. Violence affects the whole of our country. The trend of increased lethal violence through shootings continues. The introduction of 2022 is a gloomy and worrying record. This trend must be broken. Such a display of violence and a total lack of respect for the judiciary deserve the strong condemnation of society. Our society must be able to guarantee the safety of our citizens. The government is ultimately responsible for the fact that developments have gone the wrong way after their eight years in power. The fact that Sweden is at the top of Europe in terms of deadly gun violence can only be seen as a failure for the government. The escalating development of heavy gun violence is not broken. In this debate we are dealing with weapons issues. I note that instead of focusing on making it more difficult for gang criminals to commit violent crimes with illegal weapons in many cases, the government is still targeting the Swedish hunting and shooting movement. It is often a matter of simplifying rather than making it more difficult for those who legally own and handle a weapon, even though it is not the weapons we see in the gangs' agreements. Madam President, I would like I am pleased that a majority in the committee has gathered behind proposing 13 announcements to the government in response to the motion for a resolution on arms issues made during this parliamentary year. We Christian Democrats still believe that further efforts are needed to access the possession of weapons and explosives by criminals. But we believe that it must be implemented in such a way that it does not create problems for ordinary hunters and sportsmen. Already today, over 550 000 registered gun owners in Sweden are surrounded by many rules, and society has different control functions for the owner of a weapon. Petter Löberg mentioned in his speech the gun threat that exists at European level. But it's not legal weapons used in serious crimes. Previous years' analyses have shown that only about one weapon per year of the m used in serious crimes comes from hunting and shooting, i.e. a very small, marginal part. For us Christian Democrats, it is obvious not to lump together hunters and sportsmen with those who behave the worst in society. The over-implementing of weapons directives or other unnecessary regulations that make it difficult for law-abiding arms owners are not the means to stop the increase in shootings in our streets and squares. Tougher grip on gang crime needs strong measures to ensure the security of our society. But as we see it, it can happen without making life more difficult for law - abiding and responsible arms owners. The committee's position shows how we can meet hunters' and sportsmen's requests for simplification of gun ownership without affecting the security of society. Madam President, I would like I would like to mention some of the points raised in this matter. Regarding the EU's arms directive, it is a fact that a majority of the Swedish parties that we have in the Swedish parliament also voted in favour of the EU's arms directive in the European Parliament. The Christian Democrats were not one of those parties, but of course we believe that the decision must be implemented. On previous occasions, the Swedish Parliament has announced to the Government that the implementation of the 2017 amending directive in Swedish legislation should not go beyond what the directive requires so that it does not risk worsening or unnecessarily hampering law-abiding hunters and sportsmen. Nevertheless, the government has tried to come forward with proposals which, according to the committee, have meant an over-implementing of the directive. Since the Parliament last made this clear by voting against the Government's proposal on the matter, the Government has had over a year to come back with a new proposal at a de facto minimum level. However, the S-led government has so far not presented a proposal accepted by a majority of the Riksdag, despite the fact that a number of announcements have been made about it. Due to the lack of implementation, Sweden as a country is now in danger of being fined by the EU. In the discussion in the Committee on Legal Affairs, all parties have expressed their willingness to discuss as soon as possible how a minimum implementation of the directive can be designed. But the fact is that it is the government that needs to take an initiative. When we last discussed this a month ago, several of the Socialist Members stated that they would ensure that the process started and that we did not have to wait for the initiative that is now included in this report. But we have still not seen any activity or reaction from the government. One might wonder, ‘ When will the promise be fulfilled? ' Will the Minister of Justice invite a discussion to bring about a rapid process for a decision that removes the risk of EU fines? Or was it necessary to wait for Parliament's report? It did not sound that way in committee a month ago. Madam President, I would like We also need to review arms legislation. Parliament has asked for a more general review. The Christian Democrats believe that there is a considerable difference between those handling a legal weapon and those handling an illegal weapon. But that difference is not made clear in the legislation. We believe that this needs to change. There is an essential difference between the strict authorisation system for hunting, sporting and collector weapons that already exists today and the illegal import or manufacture of weapons used in criminal conflicts. It must also be more clearly reflected in the legislation. Madam President, I would like We also need to review the penalties for gun crimes. We believe that arms crimes must be a much more severe punishment than is the case today. We want to see a substantial increase. The maximum punishment for the most serious weapons crimes should be aimed at the most serious weapons crimes. It needs to be a higher maximum sentence than the seven years proposed by the government. Against this background, I would like to endorse reservation 13. Madam President, I would like Earlier in the debate, a new licensing authority for arms licensing has also been mentioned. The Riksdag has been asking for this from the Government for a long time. But the government has so far refused to comply with the decision. That is regrettable. These are long processing times today. It is a problem that affects the country's arms owners. One might wonder whether arms licensing is really a task for which the Police Authority is best placed to be responsible. We Christian Democrats believe that the Police Authority should focus on its police core task. Then we see that the police's information needs to be further refined. That is why the announcement on the introduction of a new hunting authority needs to be implemented as soon as possible. This also applies to changes raised in the report concerning the supervision of shooting ranges and requirements for weapons licensing. Madam President, I would like This case shows that it is possible to choose a different direction from the one chosen so far by the government for the control and action of weapons in our country. Today's 13 announcements added to the pile of previous announcements show that there is a majority in the Swedish Parliament that wants to go another way. In fact, it is time for the government to listen to that message. I would like to conclude by saying that we Christian Democrats support the 13 announcements made and, of course, the reservations made in this report. However, I choose to apply only for reservation 13.
i-LgpFZJHcYpLbjK7o9KktGB	Madam President, I would like When you get to the end of the debate, you have to thank them for a good debate. Madam President, I would like I think a lot of people watching this debate are getting rather confused. It seems that some politicians from some parties believe that gang violence can be tackled by having tough rules for sportsmen and hunters. It becomes quite clear when you listen to the gun debate that there are quite few people in the Swedish Parliament, if we are to be honest, who have experience from the vulnerable areas around our country that are ravaged by the brutal gangs that murder, kill each other and spread terror in their areas. Madam President, I would like I lived in Tensta for six years. This is one of the areas we talk about. I didn't see a single sportsman or a single hunter who was out there screwing up in our neighborhood. On the other hand, I heard stories from neighbors. I was told how cars burned. I saw for myself places where there had been acts of violence the night or the day before. One could sense in the area how grief spread and the fear of gangs and their violence spread. Madam President, I would like It is not right to try to use gang violence on the part of the government and some parties as a means of screwing it up for perfectly legal, fair sportsmen and hunters. It's going to be pretty rich, to be honest with you. Madam President, I would like It's a good thing it's not hunters and sportsmen who are in the gangs all over our country. Then we would have had many more murders, because they know how to handle weapons. They have absolutely dangerous weapons. But it is not the weapons themselves that are dangerous, but the people who handle them. Madam President, I would like That is why tough demands are needed on those who are to have weapons. There is a need for regular and tough controls. Strong sanctions are also needed for those who violate arms laws. But we should not think that it is legal weapons used to murder innocent people in our vulnerable areas or, for that matter, elsewhere. It's the illegal weapons we're going to get. It's gonna be bizarre. I had a friend in Tensta who was visiting me and who was going to a birthday party and was robbed on the way to my home. He was robbed by a gang of kids. They didn't have guns. They had a knife. It is not someone who stands here in the speaker's chair and represents a line where we will ensure that all chefs in Sweden get a restriction on how many knives they get in their knife arsenal. It is not the case that, because of the stabbing, someone thinks that those who have perfectly legal knives, although dangerous if used in the wrong way, should be subject to various restrictions. That would be bizarre. It is equally bizarre if illegal weapons are used to commit crimes, and so you go after the legal gun owners who behave and use their weapons for perfectly reasonable things like hunting or sporting. I have spoken earlier here in the pulpit about a murder in what I thought was an episode of the Midsomer Murder, but I have since learned that it was an episode of the Murder Commission. It was someone who killed another person with a frozen salmon that was hit in the head of the poor man and then eaten up for dinner. And that's the truth, that is, you can kill each other with just anything if you want it really much. But it does not follow that we should regulate all sorts of things in all kinds of hard ways, Madam President. Instead, we will ensure that those people who are unfit to have weapons do not get a single weapon. Also, those who violate arms law should not get a single weapon, and they should be severely punished. But we shouldn't be chasing those who engage in entirely legal and reasonable activities – who also contribute a lot to Sweden in different ways, for example through sports shooting and hunting – in the way that politics far too often does. Madam President, I would like The over-implementment has been debated in this House today. Of course, it is never good when we engage in over-implementment here in the Swedish Parliament. I would like to put my finger on an example of what I am talking about saying that inappropriate people should not have access to weapons. This concerns our reservation number 14, which I also support. Violent extremists are a typical such category; apart from people who are part of the criminal gangs we have debated many times in the Swedish Parliament, this is a category of people who absolutely should not, under any circumstances, have access to weapons. A person we know is a violent extremist should not have access to weapons, and today Sweden is far too lax in this area. That is why we have tabled this proposal, and I therefore call for the approval of Amendment No 14. It is precisely about those people who want – and want to – to practice violence in order to advance the positions of their extremist political stance and who want to practice violence against other people in violation of democracy. It is not only in conflict with people's lives and health, as is always the case if you practice violence, but it is in conflict with democracy and all the values that hold up Sweden. These people do not think we should be able to have access to weapons under any circumstances. It is not what they have in their hands, but what those people want to do with the weapon. That's what's dangerous. That is why we must be tough on the criminal gangs, and that is why we must be tough on the violent extremists. That is also why we should not unnecessarily hunt those people who have weapons for perfectly reasonable reasons. Madam President, I would like With that, I thank you for a good debate.
i-LSiHG8aWnrDWkm1Z8p8Ky8	Madam President, I would like Mr Forssell swung a little bit at the end of this otherwise rather modest debate, where I understand that there is a consensus on how to resolve this issue with the arms directive in a good way. I would like to point out to the honourable Member that many people have experience of growing up and living in so-called exclusion areas or underprivileged areas. I was born myself and have lived my entire childhood in one of the most affected areas of the country, and I have seen many of my friends die – not least from gun violence, I should say, back in the 80s. There are therefore many people who have experience of this, and we take the trauma that our country is experiencing very seriously. With regard to the arms directive, which became a key point for the debate today, it came as a direct result of the terrible terrorist attacks that took place in Brussels and Paris. One of my questions to the honourable Member is whether it is not a proper task. That's one part. The second part is unless the Liberals want us to implement the weapons directive that exists in the EU.
i-VYKzBX9hdtgjCjiEFRs8GE	Madam President, I would like Of course it is: If you have a political agenda, you take the events that take place in the world and use them to put forward your political agenda. It's nothing weird. I have also said very clearly that people who are unfit to have weapons should not have weapons. It's very clear. It takes tough laws, which I said. Tough demands, tough controls and tough sanctions are needed for those who should not have weapons. Terrorists, who you lift, Petter Löberg, are of course an example of this. Now I raised violent extremists, which we have a reservation about. It does not join the Social Democrats because the Social Democrats do not go as far as we do to ensure that the violent extremists do not have access to weapons. It's just about being tough on them. Another example is of course gangs and gang members. However, I find it interesting to have a change of line with a Social Democrat who has the background described by the honourable Member, Madam President. For I can be very provoked, and many sportsmen and hunters with me, by hearing various representatives of, among other things, the Social Democrats – not only, but among other things – use the violence that puts terror in our vulnerable areas in its rhetoric to make the legislation tougher for legal gun owners. Violence is used as a reason to go on hunters and sportsmen. I would therefore like to put a question to Mr Löberg, Madam President. What does Mr Löberg think about this? Will Mr Löberg also be provoked when, for example, Social Democrats use in their rhetoric the violence, which is ravaging and causing so much pain and sorrow to our vulnerable suburbs, as a means of framing legal gun owners who do not commit these violent crimes? Is Mr Löberg being provoked by this, just like me?
i-SNsgFpeCdYLUhrGjmhoyGt	Madam President, I would like Mr Forssell did not answer the question of whether to implement the arms directive, but I am of course assuming that he thinks so. I also see him nodding, so I'll take it for what it is. Of course, we shouldn't have rules that make it difficult for legal gun owners like sportsmen and hunters. I described this in my speech. But the problem with all regulation is that it is sometimes difficult to know where the borders go. It is not easy to know who is a criminal here and now and who is a criminal in the future; we have several cases of violence in close relationships and firearms where the perpetrator has been licensed for the weapon and has been a law-abiding gun owner throughout his life before committing violence against his partner. We also have the Mangs case, for example, which had a license for the weapons he used in his serial murders of immigrants in Malmö. Europe sees what we see, but basically we agree. We are going to review the legislation and we are going to ensure that it works smoothly for those who have legitimate reasons to have weapons. We shall ensure that we have a political consensus on the proposals put forward in this House, because now it is urgent. We do not have many months left before we have to implement the directive itself, and that is why we need to review a broader part in terms of arms management in general. In essence, we are therefore quite in agreement, I believe, but we must also understand that arms must be seen as a whole. It cannot be said that there are legal weapons that are completely autonomous from reality, because they can become operational. There are 630 000 weapons in operation in Europe. At one time most of them have probably been legal, but today they are on the illegal market. It's a big problem.
i-MKoD53gEv9vwDK4NJCtbvV	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Löberg for his reply. As far as I know, there are no examples of violence in our suburbs, which we have discussed now, where legal elk bouncers who have become operational have been used by gang criminal networks in settlements. There are no such examples, at least not that I know of. I'm sure I'll be corrected on Twitter right now, while I'm talking, but I've never heard anything like that. However, it is a myth that we are happy to spread, so that this would be the big problem. But the big problem is the illegal weapons, and that's what we're going to get at. Then there is what I say: These must be tough demands, there must be tough control and we must have tough penalties when crimes are committed. But I would like to say that we need a broad palette to combat this crime. There is a need for a school and social services in collaboration so that people do not end up in crime from the beginning, and tough, early sanctions are needed if they unfortunately do so. That's absolutely right. Then, of course, we will also ensure that we have a functioning society around us that discovers individual lunatics and ensures that early, hard and rapid efforts are made so that it does not go so far as to be an act of violence. We are running these things in the Liberals, and I hope that we will bring the Social Democrats with us. Mr Löberg asked a rhetorical question in which he had problems. It is difficult to tell where the limits are on these issues, for example, a legal weapon may be used for something illegal. There are many examples, but I have an example that I would like to highlight where it is clear where the borders are. It's about the violent extremists. We have a reservation saying that violent extremists should never have weapons in the way they can have weapons today. The Social Democrats have not joined that line. I think it is clear that this is a border that has been crossed. Violent extremists should not have access to weapons.
i-WkpBpS5wxUdqnTJ9i9Lp2k	Madam President, I would like As has been said, this report deals with motions from the general period of exercise last autumn on trade policy. It is an understatement to say that much has changed the world since then. In an earlier debate, we have debated the Commission's communication on a review of trade policy and its response to global challenges with the experience gained during the Corona crisis and the new challenges. It is about globalisation, technological development, China's rapid rise, accelerating climate change, digitalisation and the economic prospects for the world as a whole. To the list can be added geopolitical instability with an ongoing war in our vicinity, in Ukraine, that Russia invaded. As in the pandemic, there are risks of protectionism, which leads to fewer investments and lower growth. It is therefore worrying that there is now a call for greater autonomy and self-sufficiency within the EU, which is the wrong way forward for trade. Europe needs to remain globally competitive. Our strength lies in openness and in connecting relations with the outside world. When the world loses confidence, Europe must stand firm to counter tariff and other barriers to trade that disrupt. The latter is a statement made by the former Director-General of the OECD, Angel Gurría, at a parliamentary meeting the other year. We all know that lack of trust causes instability and concern. That is why trade policy is so important not only to keep business going but also to create links and dialogue between countries when they trade with each other. It is worth recalling that EU cooperation started in the ruins of the Second World War with the Coal and Steel Community – or, if you like, the Coal and Steel Union – 1952, so that no more wars without trade would be the way forward. Italy, France and Germany, together with the Benelux countries, launched cross-border economic exchanges in the form of trade and investment, which are today the EU's internal market. Here barriers to the digital and services markets now need to be removed. Conditions for service exports need to be put in place. Entrepreneurs working in different countries have enormous knowledge of the journey they have made with regulatory issues, government agencies and more. We believe that knowledge must be better used between companies. The Moderates therefore believe that the National Board of Trade, together with Business Sweden and the Swedish Export Credit Board, should work on the question of how to make it easier for SMEs to start exporting. Free trade and free trade agreements have served us well. In addition to the multilateral forum, Sweden should press for the EU to negotiate new bilateral trade agreements. The current situation is, for example, to conclude negotiations with New Zealand and Australia. These two countries are important allies for Sweden and the EU. Negotiations with India also have the potential to create new trading opportunities. That is why the Swedish Government should push both within the EU and towards India for these negotiations to start as soon as possible and then run with high ambition and at a high pace. The Moderates want Sweden to work within the EU for more ambitious free trade agreements with the outside world and countries from all parts of the world. Here you can enter EPA, Economic Partnership Agreements, with countries in Africa. We see an EU re-launching the negotiations for a free trade agreement with the United States. Sweden should act strongly in the Trade and Technology Council, TTC, to ensure free data flows between the EU and the US, to get an agreement on artificial intelligence, AI, in place and to counter increased protectionism and digital taxes. The trade agreements negotiated between the EU and Mexico, Chile and the countries known as Mercosur, namely Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, Uruguay and Venezuela, are awaiting ratification either by the European Parliament or by the Member States. We stress the importance of their being put in place. In addition, we want the Swedish Government to work and press for a free trade agreement with Taiwan within the framework of EU cooperation. The Moderates also consider it urgent to conclude negotiations with New Zealand and Australia. These are two countries that are allied with Sweden and the EU. Sweden should follow up on the EU-UK trade agreement, the TCA, which entered into force just over a year ago to maximise the potential impact. It is important that the parties work proactively to counter new barriers to trade. The same applies to the EU's trade agreements with Japan. The Moderates believe that it is important that we work actively from the Swedish side to minimise the negative effects of British withdrawal from the internal market and effectively implement the free trade agreement. The objective of the relationship between the countries must be that Swedish and British companies do not in practice notice any significant difference from the past. The Moderates therefore believe that it is urgent for both countries to act decisively in order to speed up the recovery. We also want Sweden and the EU to join forces with the United Kingdom to drive compliance at the WTO. Sweden, the EU and the UK need to work together with like-minded countries. Madam President, I would like The WTO remains an important forum for global and rule-based trade. The Moderates have long said that Sweden should work for reform of the WTO organisation, which really needs to be modernised, for the restoration of rule-based trade and for the further development of world trade. We look forward to a ministerial conference in June this year. Although many serious issues are on the agenda, we hope that it will be a constructive meeting that will take the issues forward with the current US administration to resolve the blockages that exist. Madam President, I would like The Moderates want to pay attention to the importance of trade in tackling the climate and have written in their motion about the importance of measuring the global climate benefit of Swedish exports. We have said in our food strategy that we want to increase our exports of products grown under good Swedish conditions. The Moderates have taken note of the Swedish Environmental Objectives Committee's proposal to commission the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to measure the global climate benefit of Swedish exports and have this in their motion. Now the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise has developed a study that shows that Swedish exports are expected to contribute with climate benefits abroad corresponding to 26 million tonnes of carbon dioxide. This should correspond to half of Sweden's total emissions. Swedish solutions that are good for the climate and the environment should therefore be exported. Last but certainly not least: it is important to build trade relations while ensuring that foreign investment does not have malicious agendas that are unfair or even dangerous. Madam President, I would like There's a lot to say about trade, but I'll stay there. I support all our reservations, but for the benefit of time, I only call for reservation 11.
i-9X2tBvNTxoYRZDKRrmpb6G	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report by the Committee on Economic Affairs (NU19) on trade policy. The Swedish Democrats have no less than 21 different reservations in this report, and the topics are wide-ranging. These are trade relations and agreements with individual countries and regions. It is also about food exports and a little less issues such as export bans on snus and a lot more. I and we in the Swedish Democrats are of course behind all our reservations, but for the benefit of time I choose to apply only for reservation 67, which is called the Review of Foreign Direct Investment (FDI). Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to begin my speech with the fundamental view of Sweden's democrats on trade with other countries. We have often been wrongly accused of being against free trade and of acting as a protectionist party, not least because we have been a clear European-critical party. But one doesn't really rule out the other. The Swedish Democrats are a conservative and nationalist party that defends Sweden's sovereignty and self-determination. This causes us to react strongly when the EU is showing federalist tendencies, such as when it voted only today to loosen national boundaries in relation to the elections to the European Parliament, or for that matter when it plundered Sweden for billions in a so-called Corona fund to maintain its failed currency project from crashing. The fact that we are critical of federalism within the EU and the scope of the policies that the EU has committed itself should not be confused with our view of free trade or, for that matter, cooperation between European countries on other issues. If the EU had been a free trade union, the Swedish democrats would probably have been very positive. Unfortunately, this is not the case. Europe is so much more. Trade and free trade benefit all parties. This is a fact that the Swedish Democrats are happy to emphasise. Madam President, I would like Having said that, I would also like to highlight the problem of non-democratic states investing in Sweden. We believe that it is important to pay attention when forces that have other purposes than trade come here and make investments. We need to increase the control of these direct investments in both the private and government sectors. We need to ensure that they do not threaten Swedish security interests. We need some kind of review mechanism for how these investments are made in Sweden. One of the states causing concern is China. With its large economic muscles, China has usurped great influence and blackmail opportunities around the world, perhaps mainly in the rest of Asia and Africa, but also in Europe and Sweden. Through its economic muscles, China has in a number of ways put itself in the driver's seat by taking over large parts of global industrial production. The fact that China has deliberately created a monopoly-like position in trade in certain critical minerals and components needed for European industry has not made things any easier. In these respects, one can only say that the West has failed. Our liberal principles of free trade have put us in the grip of dictatorships. In a retro perspective, everyone should be able to acknowledge that former US President Donald Trump made important points in his criticism of both Europe's dependence on Russian gas and energy and the Western trade deficit with China. China has used a lot of its revenue to invest abroad. It has concerned electricity generation, transport infrastructure, information infrastructure and, of course, high-tech industry. Totalförsvarets forskningsinstitut has identified 65 companies in Sweden with Chinese owners, and Chinese owners are known to mean the Chinese state. At the same time, we know that China is engaged in cyberintelligence to promote its economic and military interests, something that Säpo believes has increased in Sweden in recent years. As part of being able to curb a dangerous development and protect Swedish interests, we believe that the impact of Chinese direct investments in Sweden must be carefully investigated. Madam President, I would like to express my gratitude for the fact that so far I can call China a dictatorship from this pulpit.
i-J8MF1rf2SZ7TK3LXiDtCmM	Madam President, I would like Trade policy is up for debate. To debate trade policy at a time when trade in peaceful products in Europe is being used as a strategic weapon is a situation that only recently felt remote, at least in this part of the world. This means that trade issues, as important as they are, are cluttered with great uncertainties. This chamber treatment is more important and timely than ever, when we look at everything that is going on in the Europe we hold so dear. International cooperation is a sine qua non in meeting the green transition and safeguarding democracy and transparency. From the part of the world that I come from, what we call Småland, there is a long-term insight into the importance of trade and companies for development. It is about dumpers that contain the most modern technology and are world leaders, furniture companies that have grown for decades from mail order companies to global giants that change the whole way of equipping a home and truck factory in Ljungby, which has a state-of-the-art innovation centre to maintain its international competitiveness. But I also see small and innovative companies that dare to step out and face the world. These companies together create prosperity and sustainability in my part of the world, what I call Småland. The Center Party believes that free trade is crucial for Sweden's economy and competitiveness, while at the same time providing an opportunity to improve environmental and working conditions in other countries. We therefore want the EU to make strict demands on environmental considerations and human rights in its free trade agreements. This can make a big difference to the EU's trading partners and set good global standards that others adopt in order to be able to sell their products in the EU. In addition to trade agreements, the EU has a number of economic partnerships with developing countries. In addition, LDCs have duty-free access to the EU market for all goods except arms. For example, efforts are being made to strengthen the EU's relations with Africa and to make it a wider free trade area. That's what we endorse as center parties. Globalisation and international trade contribute to development and increased prosperity. It is not through less trade and lack of economic growth that people's standard of living is improved. Instead, we want to see the European business and public sector take greater responsibility for ensuring socially sustainable production chains and material flows. Swedish and European companies should do more to ensure that they and their subcontractors offer good working conditions and respect human rights, including in those parts of the business that exist outside the EU. The same applies to their environmental and climate impact. It is important that there are internationally recognised definitions and standards of social sustainability and that certifications are harmonised at EU level. Madam President, I would like The climate is not saved by looking back. It is not by rejecting all the good that man's ingenuity and growth have given us that emissions are decreasing. On the contrary, it is precisely through human creativity and green growth that we manage the climate transition. Sustainable growth also creates the resources needed to finance the transition. Sweden has great opportunities to deliver green innovations that the world wants in the big transition we are in the middle of. Sweden has a tradition of innovative people and companies, a well-educated population and a great credibility in terms of green technology. When the technologies of the future are developed and produced in Sweden and subsequently exported, it not only provides more jobs, companies and increased growth, but also climate benefits in terms of reduced emissions far beyond Sweden's borders. Green innovations can thus make a big difference for the climate while creating export revenue for Sweden. We have many small and medium-sized enterprises at the forefront of developing new environmental technologies and finding new business models in the green transition. In order for Sweden to tap into the potential, a policy that promotes innovation and entrepreneurship is required. The Center Party therefore believes that investment in green technology should be facilitated and that Sweden should strive to be an international forerunner in the development of climate-smart technology. We see it as a matter of course that the export promotion measures that exist, for example export credits, should be in line with the Paris Agreement. Madam President, I would like Sweden is an export nation, but it is still large companies that account for the largest share of exports. Only around 10% to 15% of small and medium-sized enterprises carry out exports. Many of the companies in this category are subcontractors. According to a Kommerskollegium study, 74% of industrial companies see Sweden as their main market, while only 12% consider the EU to be the domestic market. With around 10 million potential consumers, Sweden is a fairly limited testing market for SMEs to develop their own innovative products. We believe that a logical political step for more innovations would be to facilitate the step towards exports for small and medium-sized enterprises, thereby creating a larger home market for more companies. Madam President, I would like We in the Center Party are, of course, behind all our reservations, but I am only in favour of reservation 66, promoting the export of small and medium-sized enterprises.
i-WqSfQHLBWM6xi3Bdf7boBa	Madam President, I would like This is my first term of office, and I have been talking about trade policy throughout this period. The truth is that four years outside this building is quite a long time, but within these walls time is extremely relative. It depends on how much media attention a question gets, how many parties are actually willing to change something and for some parties also who the issue affects if it is negative. Sometimes I can feel that the process of modernising trade agreements takes quite a long time. The interesting thing is that it is usually the case that what affects areas and people who few in these rooms can relate to in the end will still affect us all. When we talk about trade policy we usually talk about that Sweden is a country dependent on foreign trade. The truth is that much of what we use daily would not be here or could be produced here if it were not for foreign trade. This has also been the case in history. Trade with the outside world is therefore crucial for Sweden's prosperity and development. Many of our companies depend on both imports and exports. They are part of global value chains, and global value chains have a major impact on both growth and employment here in Sweden and in other parts of the world. We have a pretty big responsibility to change what these value chains and international agreements look like and to define what kind of growth we need. In any case, it is clear that we cannot continue as we do. Madam President, I would like The Left Party wants a fair trade policy that puts people, social justice, animals, climate and the environment first and focuses on social benefits for all and not just profits for large companies. We want a fair trade policy that does not mean any deterioration for the citizens of the countries covered. Trade policy should represent a positive development. We need a reflection on trade policy. The problem is usually that when we develop trade policy further, those groups that are both most affected and have the solution to change are excluded. We must be willing to recognise that our trade policy is based on favouring large companies and putting Sweden and Europe first, sometimes without taking in the consequences of this. One issue that we highlight in our motion on trade policy, among other things, is an agreement that covers all the things I have described before. It is about the Mercosur Agreement, and I will mention something about the inconsistencies and consequences of the agreement. In conclusion, the implementation of the MERCOSUR agreement will speed up environmental degradation and the climate crisis, increase human rights violations and increase impunity for businesses. Small-scale farmers, indigenous peoples and other people living in rural areas in both Mercosur countries and Europe will be particularly affected by the export-oriented and chemical-intensive agricultural model that benefits from the agreement. The large agricultural models and monocultures destroy biodiversity and ecosystems. Imports of meat, chicken and soya into the EU are expected to increase. Increased imports mean, of course, that production will increase in the Mercosur countries, which means that greenhouse gases will increase and that larger areas will be used for animals, for monoculture. The increased area must of course be taken from somewhere. Here indigenous peoples, small farmers and rainforests pay the price. In order to open up the forests, it will be destroyed and burned, as we already see in the statistics. Just a few days ago, Aftonbladet presented reports about it. The cheap meat imported will also hit small farmers hard here in Europe, and transport emissions will of course increase. Instead, we should encourage local culture. No, this is not good enough. We need trade agreements that strengthen small farmers and promote biodiversity through clear control systems for the environment and legal requirements for environmental considerations and democracy. We need trade agreements that strengthen workers' rights and not exploitation. That's not where the winnings are going to be. We need trade agreements that strengthen the management of natural resources by countries and share technology. We need trade agreements that take account of how women are affected, both economically and socially. We cannot say, on the one hand, that we stand up for rural areas, small farmers and local farmers here and, at the same time, create trade agreements that impoverish the chances of achieving this. We cannot say, on the one hand, that we stand up for climate and the environment and, at the same time, enter into trade agreements that lead to so much deforestation, environmental degradation and fire that massive areas in the Amazon are irrevocably transformed into a savannah with huge loss of biodiversity, increase in CO2 emissions and disruption of rainfall patterns, which affect agriculture, as a result. We cannot ban pesticides in Europe because they are so dangerous that they kill all living things and then do not use the trade agreements to ban their exports. Over a ten - year period, 1 800 people died in Brazil after being exposed to these pesticides, and during the same period no less than 3,750 children aged 0 - 14 years were poisoned, i.e. more than 350 children per year. Among these were more than 500 infants. Again, indigenous peoples are the most affected proportionately. Madam President, I would like In view of all the consequences of the Mercosur Agreement, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 13. I would like to take this opportunity to highlight other tools that are important for a good progressive trade policy. The UN's guiding principles for business and human rights are based on the state's duty to protect human rights, the responsibility of companies to respect them and the individual's ability to have his or her case tried in the event of violations. We have long advocated that our companies comply with the UN's guiding principles for companies and human rights and that human rights and environmental due diligence be used. These are tools that companies can use to analyse the risks and prevent their activities having a negative impact on human rights, the environment and climate, and we were pleased when the EU was propagating a due diligence law. We hoped but were still a little skeptical that this law would measure up. Unfortunately, we were right to be a little skeptical. The directive that came is a hollow proposal and will not have the effect that many of us expect. Criticism from civil society is widespread. The law only covers certain companies, although it is known that even smaller companies can violate human rights and create major environmental damage. The truth is that this covers only 1% of businesses in Europe. The proposal is that due diligence processes should only cover established business relationships – it is another point of the Directive – which is or is expected to be durable. This is another erosion that will mean that it will not follow at all stages. We really want Sweden to take the lead shirt in this. We want the legal requirements to apply to everyone, and we really want trade to be used as a tool to drive communities towards better development. Madam President, I would like The last tool I choose to highlight is binding treaty. If due diligence is a tool for companies to prevent their activities from having a negative impact on human rights and the environment, binding regulation is binding to hold transnational companies accountable for what their companies do, even when they operate in other countries. This has been a major problem, as many of the transnational companies divide their activities and businesses in order to avoid taking responsibility for these issues. Here we would really like to see Sweden taking greater responsibility and attending meetings at the UN. Unfortunately, this has not been to the extent that one would like to see. Even small communities or people should be able to get justice when large transnational companies fail in terms of agreements and laws. Modern trade agreements are based on different premises than those we have today. Modern trade agreements could be real tools for promoting democracy, green technology, the environment and climate. The fact that we need modern trade agreements has indeed been seen recently.
i-WbopMeBoBGVfZn5j1a5mPw	Madam President, I would like Of course, I support all of our 18 reservations in the report on trade policy, but for time, I only call for reservation 67. Trade is basically a very good tool, and we really must safeguard its importance for our prosperity. But first we had a pandemic where trade has not been able to take place under the conditions we are used to, and now Russia's invasion of Ukraine is triggering protectionist proposals worldwide. It is easy to understand, but we must stand by the basic ideas of free trade. We must have both the heart and the brain with us, be able to keep two thoughts in our heads at the same time and use free trade as far as possible. But preparedness and security are also important, and we must also take this into account in our positions. I have a concrete example. We now have only one yeast factory in Sweden. It's in Rotebro. Some people want to put it down to build homes there, for example. But it's a pretty bad decision. Why? Yeah, because without yeast, we can't bake. It is a fairly necessary product for our bakeries. We can use that instead of importing and trading that type of goods. Some parts we also need to be prepared for. We need to secure this. By this I do not mean that we are opposed to food trade across borders, but it is important to take these issues seriously and see what we need to secure ourselves a and what we can do together with other countries. Madam President, I would like The WTO is one of our most important elements for global and rule-based trade, and, as several others have also emphasised, it needs to be reformed and modernised. In this regard, I would particularly like to highlight digitalisation and the trade in services. We want to see the WTO as a tool for influencing conditions in other countries, and I am thinking in particular of China. Nevertheless, trade agreements have served us well, and trade creates prosperity. Here we think that the negotiations that we see with New Zealand and Australia should be concluded. We see that India is an important country, and we will make closer contacts with Taiwan. As far as the relationship with Britain was concerned, Brexit was unfortunate. Now we have to nurture our relationships and minimise the effects without penalising them. It is important to ensure that Swedes are able to live and work in the UK. This is, of course, mutual between countries. We also see trade as a catalyst for the green transition. Trade is a tool in climate work. Protectionism is a dead end. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise estimates that Swedish imports contribute to climate benefits abroad corresponding to 26 million tonnes of carbon dioxide. This is about half of Sweden's territorial emissions, but one has forgotten a company that I have looked at and had the privilege of visiting not so long ago, namely Westinghouse. 75 percent of their nuclear fuel is exported – 600 tons of uranium oxide per year. It generates more electricity than Sweden produces in one year, about 120 percent. The removal of 100 million tonnes of coal means that the factory contributes to reducing CO2 emissions in the world by about 200 million tonnes each year. Compare this with Sweden, which emits about 50 million tonnes of carbon dioxide each year. What they produce and deliver to the rest of the world is therefore a total of four years of our total Swedish emissions. This makes climate benefits for real. Madam President, I would like In the field of foreign direct investment, Sweden must work to ensure a functioning exchange of information within the foreign direct investment audit function established within the EU. It is important that we analyse the security policy implications when doing business. Our basic view is that the world benefits from the global supply of goods and services, but it is necessary to pay attention to forces that have other purposes than mere trade. Here, scrutiny is crucial to ensure fair competition, protect property rights and combat corruption. It is important to build trade relations and ensure that foreign direct investors do not have malicious, unjust or even dangerous agendas. It is important to increase controls on foreign direct investment in particular. This applies in both the private and government sectors. Nor must it threaten the Swedish security interests. At the same time, we note that investigator Sten Heckscher presented his investigation last November and urge the government to continue working on this complex issue. Nevertheless, I would like to emphasise the need for a review mechanism for foreign direct investment to be introduced in Sweden. This is something for which the EU has expressed its support but for which the government has so far failed to get in place. It is important, and it is important precisely in the wake of the pandemic.
i-H2QuYZfekJAFTDvodiFKbz	Madam President, I would like Trade policy has come into very strong focus with Russia's aggressive warfare against Ukraine. For every litre of oil and diesel, for every kilo of natural gas and for every bag of commercial fertilizer we buy from Russia, we fatten Putin's war fund. We in Sweden, we in the EU and we in the Western world are facing Putin war with stronger support for Ukraine and with sanctions against Russia, and we in Sweden are doing so by strengthening our country. In Sweden, we need to say no to Russian energy. But we also need to produce greater amounts of fossil-free energy in order for our sister countries in the European Union to phase out the Russian energy on which they depend even more than we are. Madam President, I would like Trade is cooperation, and trade is necessary. However, if trade leads to too large and larger climate emissions or makes Sweden vulnerable, we need to discuss how we modernise trade. One example is how we now need to strengthen Sweden's and the EU's self-sufficiency and self-sufficiency in food. If we look at agriculture, we in Sweden are currently very dependent on food imports. We would not have to import as much meat, cheese and vegetables as we actually do. Even if it would be competitive to produce yeast in any other part of the world compared to Sweden – given what the previous speaker said – there is no reason to close a yeast factory in Sweden. It's a security issue. But agriculture is not just a matter where we depend on importing food. We are also dependent on imports of energy, fertilisers, feed, seeds, machinery and labour. The focus must now be on the fact that Swedish agriculture can make greater use of fossil-free energy and that we ensure a cadmium-free fertiliser supply from circular systems from Swedish mining industry. The focus must be on making agriculture less vulnerable and more climate-smart. Another important issue of trade is the issue of imposing higher requirements on imported meat and other animal products. Sweden is at the forefront in the work of not using antibiotics in animal husbandry at all for preventive purposes. Healthy animals and animal welfare is Sweden's model. To convince other countries, stronger instruments are needed than just being an exemplary example. There is a need for requirements in the area of trade policy. Madam President, I would like Yesterday, the Green Party presented a budget for the Green People's Home. Our priorities are self-evident: a fair green transition, a radical reduction in emissions, stronger protection of biodiversity, major investments to protect our environment, a secure welfare, greater equality and more justice. It is now that the Green Party is needed in Swedish politics. The Green Party wants an investment of SEK 100 billion per year for ten years for the climate. It is a great historic venture – an investment in our future, in new green jobs and a strengthened green economy. Humanity exists on a single planet, but we consume as if we had four. Increased use of natural resources accounts for half of climate emissions and more than 90% of the world's water scarcity and loss of biodiversity. We're taking small steps forward. Now we see that the secondary market for products is actually growing. But the industry is still dominated by business models based on a linear economy. According to a report from the Swedish Environmental Protection Association, there is as much climate impact and kilos of natural resources from a new sofa as from six used ones. The Green Party believes that it is necessary to make tough demands on the government to introduce incentives to promote the qualitative re-use and repair of climate and environmental-burdening product categories. And there's furniture, among other things. Madam President, I would like Sweden conducts extensive trade and investment promotion work, including through the Export Credit Board, Swedish Export Credit and Business Sweden. Audits carried out by Amnesty, Diakonia and Parliament's investigation service reveal quite significant shortcomings in the transparency of the Export Credit Board and the others that I mentioned because they provide large amounts of support for investment and trade with dictatorships. Although the government has recently stated in a regulatory letter that it wants the Export Credit Board to ensure that its activities are conducted in accordance with – and inform about – the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the principles of the UN Global Compact and the UN Principles for Business and Human Rights, the Green Party believes that there is still a great deal of work to be done to ensure that these wordings are put into practice. We believe that it is unreasonable that the Riksdag should not be allowed to access the information about which countries a state-owned company, Swedish Export Credit, issues credits to. Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to call for the approval of reservation 48, which is about increasing the life expectancy of various products. There are still far too many products that are deliberately designed to have a short life span. The only purpose of this is to increase the sales of companies. Companies also destroy and dispose of fully functional products, such as clothing and furniture. We believe that this is an unreasonable waste of resources and can conclude that it is legal. We want to introduce requirements on product design, product life and the right of consumers and independent repairers to repair. In the context of the EU Circular Economy Action Plan, adopted in 2015, the Union is moving so slowly towards legislation that will put an end to planned ageing and force producers to take account of repair possibilities when designing their products. But we believe that Sweden does not have to wait for the EU to take all the decisions on this issue. Sweden, like France, can take precedence. We believe that the government should soon come up with a proposal for legislation that prohibits planned ageing of products and regulates product design requirements for these products. Madam President, I would like Something that is very important for improving products with which there is a lot of trade is the ecodesign requirements. The Green Party has concrete proposals on how to set ecodesign requirements for water-using products. We see that it is possible to reduce water consumption radically, by 50%, if such types of proposals are implemented. Madam President, I would like I began by saying that trade policy is one of the policies that has become extremely much more important by the events taking place in the world around us. And I hope these are issues that will really be discussed for the next elections.
i-9hJdBHn9JUwp9rJQ2phLKZ	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. In times of crisis, it is reasonable to reconsider some previous positions, but it is also important to maintain other positions, which are known to benefit Sweden and our security. I will start with a quote, Madam President: a rule-based trade policy based on openness is of the utmost importance for our continued prosperity for Sweden as a trade-dependent country. Trade with other countries is, and has historically been, directly crucial for Swedish welfare development and the competitiveness of Swedish companies. In times of geopolitical instability, more and more people in the EU are crying out for more autonomy and self-sufficiency, which is wrongly equated with a stronger Union. The EU's strength remains in its openness and relations with the outside world – a strong and globally competitive Europe is the way forward. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like I have taken the quote from the organisation Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. It is not always that we Social Democrats refer to the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise in positive terms here in the pulpit. However, when it comes to the view of open and rules-based trade, we often have completely coherent views, and I think we should say so. It was also gratifying to hear today that several parties stress the importance of free, transparent and rule-based trade. A year ago I thought it sounded a little different, but now it was positive notes. I appreciate it, and I think it's good. However, there are lots that glide on the whole. There are parties who think that we should cut the electric cables to Europe, for example. The answer will then be guilty when it comes to who will invest in Swedish electricity production, which needs to be doubled in order for us to cope with the climate change. There are parties who criticise the State Export Credit Board, which provides loans for business with what we call difficult countries, that is, authoritarian countries. And it's hard; I won't hymn with it. But it is also the case that companies need to be able to trade with such countries if the deal itself does good. I think it is important to make that clear. We need to be able to think several things at the same time, as someone said. Although it is difficult, we need to be able to give Swedish companies the opportunity to trade with difficult countries if the deal itself contributes, for example, to increased climate change and reduced emissions. We Social Democrats always stand up for rule-based and free trade in all weathers. But, Madam President, when an authoritarian state starts a full-scale, illegal war on democracy, it also has consequences for our trade. I am proud that Europe and the Western world have joined forces with a package of sanctions against Russia, and I am proud that Swedish companies have also, on their own, drastically reduced their trade with Russia, including those goods that are not subject to sanctions. Between February and March this year, imports of goods from Russia to Sweden fell by 57 per cent, and exports to Russia decreased even more. It is impressive that Swedish companies manage to switch so quickly. Madam President, I would like Trade with others is good, and if we do so in a smart way, it can help lift people out of poverty and spread climate-friendly solutions. We Social Democrats want to do that. With modern and forward-looking trade agreements, steps can also be taken to move countries with authoritarian regimes in the right direction for environmental sustainability and for workers' rights. To solve today's and tomorrow's problems, we need more international cooperation and opportunities for cross-border economic exchanges in the form of both trade and investment. World trade also makes a difference in Sweden. Our openness strengthens competitiveness and creates jobs. I hope that by now everyone knows what I say in every trade policy debate every year: every third Swedish job is in the export sector, and it is no less than 1.5 million Swedish jobs that depend on our foreign trade. Without foreign trade – no Swedish prosperity and not the welfare that we have today. Madam President, I would like However, Swedish industry faces fierce competition from international players. The green transition has increased the demand for critical raw materials and, in addition, commodity prices are rising significantly following Russia's inhumane invasion of Ukraine. We Social Democrats therefore propose in our amending budget a commodity guarantee, where EKN can provide guarantees to companies that need to buy critical minerals in order to maintain competitiveness but also the employment rate in the regions of Sweden where we have this type of activity. This is important, and I hope, of course, that the spring amending budget will receive Parliament's approval. Swedish companies mainly deal with other EU countries, which is why a well-functioning internal market is very important to us. Different types of obstacles, such as excessive professional certificates and other types of standards, need to be removed in order to promote the internal market. We Social Democrats want to see more free trade agreements that demand due diligence or HRDD, as the Left Party talked about. We are pushing for a border adjustment mechanism or CBAM, as it is also called, which contributes to the reduction of emissions. We want to see a trade policy that ensures that the benefits of trade come to both women and men. Social responsibility is super important. Stefan Lövven's Global Deal initiative, for which the OECD is now responsible, is a very important step in the right direction. We are intensifying our efforts to support small and medium-sized enterprises around the country in wanting, daring and being able to trade with other countries. This is done through Business Sweden. It is important for our trade, for competitiveness and for growth and jobs throughout the country. Madam President, I would like The Expo 2020 World Exhibition in Dubai has recently closed. It is gratifying that despite the pandemic we had more than a million visits to the Swedish pavilion The Forest. That's really good! There has been a fantastic teamwork between the government, Expokansliet and no less than 145 partner companies in Sweden. What strength there is in our country, and so many obstacles we have managed to overcome as we work together! That's really impressive. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the staff at the Expo 2020 Office for their hard work and for their constant optimism despite all the challenges we have been through. Added to this is the large investor conference that the government and Business Sweden have initiated, Join Sweden Summit, which will take place in June. Madam President, I would like We have fantastic companies in Sweden, large and small, that stand out well in the competition for innovation, quality and sustainability. We can thank the broad, free education system for this, which makes the level of competence in Sweden generally high. We can train ourselves throughout our lives, and we can change our skills and therefore compete with knowledge, not with low wages. In addition, we have our robust security system to thank for the fact that many dare to try their wings, change jobs, start their own business and lose their security for a while. Not least, we also have general welfare, which allows women and men to support themselves, invest in their business ideas and commercialise their innovations instead of taking care of children and old parents full time. These basic bolts in Swedish welfare must not be forgotten when we talk about trade and successful entrepreneurship, because they make the whole difference. Madam President, I would like We live in a complex world. We must be able to broaden the perspective from a discussion where the choices are between unconditional free trade and no trade agreements at all. As usual, we Social Democrats advocate the policy of the wise third way, where we use trade agreements and credit guarantees as a means of exerting pressure to move the development towards the reality we want. It is a policy in which openness and trade lead to increased prosperity and security for all.
i-BeGhvyB5brDRj1rEpmSymP	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Åsa Eriksson, for your speech! Åsa Eriksson boasts that strengthened competitiveness actually contributes to Europe and that parties stand here and say that we need to increase Sweden's self-sufficiency. The government took an initiative last week to strengthen food preparedness. We have a food strategy that says that we will increase our production of food in Sweden. Is it wrong, then, to say that Sweden and the EU should strengthen their self-sufficiency in food? We have also seen recently that Swedish food may not be very Swedish. We are extremely dependent on imports of diesel, commercial fertilisers, feed, seeds and labour to conduct Swedish agriculture. In the event of crisis and war, we have food readiness problems. What do the government and Social Democrats think about the Swedish food strategy, which actually says that we should increase Sweden's self-sufficiency rate? Is that something that the Social Democrats are opposed to? I also have a question for Åsa Eriksson about the transparency of the Export Credit Board and SEK. Amnesty, Diakonia and Parliament's investigation service have criticised transparency. How do you want to improve it?
i-LUxqUeLtTT2RrPMbVeY2Zi	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Gardfjell, for those questions. It goes without saying that both I as a social democrat and the government want to see an increased Swedish level of self-sufficiency when it comes to food. That is why we have the food strategy, and that is why the government previously took the initiative that Maria Gardfjell mentioned. This does not mean, however, that we want to pursue a protectionist policy and set up trade barriers. That's what I'm criticising. I criticise those who want to cut electric cables. I criticise those who are trying to make it that we would do better without free trade. I object to that. But I am proud of Swedish food production. I'm proud of the high quality we have. And yes, we need to increase the proportion of Swedish food supply. I agree. I myself have often propagated to the government because, for example, we have to take advantage of horse shit and make manure out of it instead of importing as much as we do. There is much we can do better, but the answer is not protectionism and trade barriers. We must be able to act, for it contributes to our prosperity and to the prosperity of other people. When it comes to transparency in the Export Credit Board and SEK, the simple answer is that we want to see as much openness and transparency as possible without revealing trade secrets and without making business impossible.
i-EUVKNLTU1dAmYLDxPMXN76	Madam President, I would like I did not hear any of the two parties talking about increased self-sufficiency in food saying a word about trying to impose trade barriers or protectionist policies. It will have to stand for Åsa Eriksson in that case. Nor is it the case that the Green Party in any way believes that we should cut links with Europe in terms of electricity trade, rather the opposite. I mentioned in my speech that we must stop the import of Russian energy immediately and increase our fossil-free production rapidly so that we can also help other countries in Europe to phase out Putin's energy. I have another question for Åsa Eriksson. It is about a very important export product for Sweden: forest and forest products. The Social Democrats have recently conducted a rather aggressive policy in the government where it is believed that climate policy should not affect Swedish forestry. If you run a forestry policy in Sweden where you say that climate policy should not affect forestry and that you should not take so much account of biodiversity, does Åsa Eriksson think that it will be more difficult for Swedish forest exports in the future?
i-9w7hJQWR3qCuqxKUnrV5S7	Madam President, I would like I hope that Mr Gardfjell heard that in my speech I commended several parties which I believe are now clarifying their policy of openness and free trade, while a year ago and during the AMT, in several motions that exist, rather drifted in the protectionist direction. I thought it was a positive change that I wanted to commend. Nor have I criticized the Green Party anywhere in my speech. As far as the forest is concerned – what a pleasure that I am allowed to talk about forests in a trade policy debate; I think this is the first time – we social democrats, of whom I think Maria Gardfjell is very well aware, have two equal goals for our forestry policy. It is production, and it is biodiversity. Of course they're stuck. Climate policy is incredibly important. We must use the forest in the best possible way, and we can also use trade. I will not discuss what Maria Gardfjell raised in her question at the end – I do not even remember what it was – but we will continue with the same forestry policy. It is very important that the forest contributes to the climate change, because there we have huge opportunities. I see no problem with this in the current trade policy either. We stand up for a rule-based, free and open trade in wood products as well.
i-D3sJZ4rPEgzQ2YDnLfJLdf	Madam President, I would like We all know that we live in an uncertain world, and no one knows when and how this will end. When we wrote all our motions for this report, we were in the midst of a pandemic. No one could think as far as after the pandemic there would be a war. In recent years we have learned a lot, and it is therefore of great importance that we do everything we can to become self-sufficient in the areas where we have the opportunity. Madam President, I would like The mining industry is one of the industries that built our country big. We have mined ore and produced metals for more than a thousand years. At most we had 3,000 active mines in Sweden. Today there are 12 mines in production in Sweden, and all are metal mines. Never in the 21st century has there been so little interest in mineral exploration. In 2021, 109 applications for mining explorations were received, and this is a clear downward trend. Sweden needs to become a strong mining nation again, creating new jobs and meeting the need for critical metals without compromising the environment. We need to take measures for a more modern and legally secure permit process and should strengthen and clarify the position of the mineral law in environmental permit processes. The Moderates stress that the processes in larger mining cases need to be speeded up and made more transparent. We therefore recommend the appointment of a special coordinator for major mining cases. We want the government to take these decisions seriously and come back as soon as possible with concrete proposals for simplified permit processes and shorter processing times for the mining and mineral industries. Madam President, I would like Sweden has lost a lot when it comes to its high position as a mining nation. Of the EU's iron ore production, just over 90 per cent comes from Sweden, but we still lose our ranking as a leading mining nation. Perhaps part of the explanation is the ongoing coronapndemine. The Pandemin has made it harder for foreign prospectors to come here and also for them to get their equipment here. Another explanation is the strong mining debate that has been going on in our society for over ten years. The long processing times for permit testing and the complicated regulations surrounding the mining industry in Sweden make countries look elsewhere where it is much easier to get permission to start test mining. Much of the investment capital that will flow into research permits and research work is foreign, so the image of Sweden as a major mining nation is important. Sweden, like the rest of the world, is dependent on innovation-critical metals and minerals if we are to reach the goal of being fossil-free in 2030. In order to simplify matters for foreign and also Swedish companies, Bergsstatet could have a clearer overall responsibility through a so-called one-stop shop function. One of the challenges is that there are many interests that stand against each other, and everyone has their own area that they care about. If one organisation does not appeal, the other will. This means that the permit processes and environmental tests are delayed, and no money is coming into investing companies, but it is just expenditure. Madam President, I would like We have a company called Fäboliden, which breaks gold just outside my home town Lycksele in Västerbotten. They have been doing seven years with all the applications, and every time they have received their application back, it says that they have to do a little more. They're not supposed to know what to do. They're just gonna do a little more. In February this year their trial was to be brought to court, but it was decided to postpone it again. Svartliden enrichment plant works near Fäboliden, and their production is greatly affected when Fäboliden does not get its permits ready to break the gold deposits available. They are waiting for permission and do not have revenue but only expenditure. Sweden currently breaks a large proportion of the iron ore exported, and this is positive. But we have a range of innovation-critical metals, such as lithium and cobalt, that we need to manufacture batteries in our quest for a fossil-free world. They are found in our bedrock, but they are not broken but we buy in the stand from China and Congo- Kinshasa – countries with questionable working environment. If we are to achieve our objectives, we must also break these metals and also ensure that we have a much greater recycling of them in order to cope with this transformation. Madam President, I would like Sweden sits on many of its own minerals, metals and ore, but we do not break them. It depends on our legislation, our environmental tests and lengthy and complicated processes. We must speed up the environmental testing processes and lead times for permit testing so that we can once again become the strong mining nation that we have been. We are all in a position to become strong again if we raise our eyes and look to the mining industry as a major nutrient in our country. Of course, we should not lower the requirements of our environmental legislation or permit regulation, but we cannot extend all concession applications with appeals and complicated legislation. No one's gonna win. I support our party motion and all our committee movements and motions, but for the sake of simplicity, I am in favour of reservation 1.
i-CA6rmP1HxZjHenSfvB1RKV	Madam President, I would like When I decided to run for office to Parliament just under five years ago, I did so with the hope that as a miner I would be able to develop and run our party's mining and mineral policy. That is what happened, and it is a trust that I have been and am extremely grateful for. In the run-up to today's mineral policy debate, which is the last of this parliamentary term, I took a quick look back at previous years' debates and noted that there is still a lot to work on. Who, for example, had thought, at the beginning of the term of office almost four years ago, that we would have to deal with the consequences of both a pandemic and a bestial war in our neighbourhood? Despite, or because of, the pandemic and Russia's war against Ukraine, strikingly little has happened in the mining and mineral policy area. In last year's debate, I summed up the situation by describing it with the travesting words: on the mining front nothing new. What has happened since then? Well, Sweden has received a new Minister of Economic Affairs who claims to love mines and a new government in which the anti-mining Green Party is no longer included. In addition, a new processing concession has been announced in a green field area. Then, of course, we are talking about Kallak in my neighboring municipality of Jokkmokk. I will come back to that later in my speech, Madam President. Following the conclusion of this debate, the NU25 One-year extension of the period of validity of research permits will be considered. It is a report that is entirely a consequence of the coronapandemine, as it turned out that the design of existing legislation was in danger of overturning the entire exploration industry when pandemic restrictions were introduced. This puts the finger on one of the things we from the Swedish Democrats have pointed out as important when we talk about this to Swedish industry so important industry, namely that we need to ensure that the legislation we have is robust and can withstand unforeseen and extraordinary events. Madam President, I would like Mining is important. We do not manufacture mobile phones, hip replacements, railways, ball bearings, airplanes or wooden needles. The extraction of metals and minerals is and will for the foreseeable future be a prerequisite for us to have, for example, a manufacturing industry, a construction industry and an infrastructure worthy of the name. What should companies like Volvo, SKF, Bofors, Sandvik, SSAB and others do if they do not have access to high quality raw materials? How many jobs are at stake throughout the value chain unless mining and mineral policy is functional and forward-looking? Central to this is the state processes. They are probably the biggest stumbling block in this context, I would say. How crazy it can be and how extensive the consequences can be became very clear in the matter of limestone mining in Gotland Slite. A denied environmental permit was in danger of leading to a national shortage of cement input in a way that would give rise to almost intransparent societal consequences. The situation was so serious that the government was forced to act. It was, of course, both right and proper, but it says something about how our state processes work, or do not work. This has led, among other things, to the collapse of Sweden's reputation as a mining nation. Between 2016 and 2020, Sweden declined from an 8th to a 36th place on the prestigious Fraser Institute's ranking of countries that international companies consider it attractive to invest in. I can put it in a different and perhaps more understandable context. In 2016, we placed ourselves in the same league as the United States, Australia and Canada, but four years later, we ended up, not flatteringly, at about the same level as Mali and Ghana. This isn't good enough. We're sending out the wrong signal. The issue of a mining establishment in Kallak has been dealt with extremely optionally, and when the processing concession was announced after the matter had been on the government table for years, the processing concession was conditional on no less than twelve conditions. This is unique, and I am afraid that with this we are seeing a kind of paradigm shift. Four years ago, uranium mining and exploration were banned, even though it is known that uranium is a marker for several of the innovation-critical metals and minerals that are now highly sought after. Four years later, when there is a terrible war going on in Ukraine, and Europe is doing everything to break out of its dependence on Russian oil and gas, the government is proposing to ban exploration for oil, coal and natural gas. It may seem to be a non-issue as such extraction does not take place in Sweden. But the timing is incredibly poor, and the signals to the outside world that Sweden is a tricky country to make investments in are unfortunately clear. Madam President, I would like The desire for exploration has fallen. A few months ago it was read in the media that the number of research permits in Sweden was on a new bottom level. This is true in spite of sky-high metal prices and a very high demand for many of the metals and minerals found in the Swedish bedrock and despite the fact that both the EU and Sweden have pointed out that the degree of self-sufficiency must increase. I agree with that analysis. Self-sufficiency must be increased. We have the raw materials literally under our feet, but we do not manage that knowledge very well. Instead, we have largely made ourselves dependent on raw materials from countries where child labour is commonplace and from Russia. Sadly, it has contributed to financing Putin's war on Ukraine. Everyone in this House has to ask whether this circumstance is reasonable. The Swedish Democrats are clear. We don't think so. We believe in a strong domestic mining industry. Swedish mining industry is modern and is at the forefront of technology. Not only does it generate jobs and tax revenues locally, but it is also of great importance to other parts of society. The Swedish mining industry has a connection to, for example, academia, the automotive industry, telecom companies and machine manufacturers who conduct part of their research and product development in the field. In some cases, the innovations and product development that take place in Sweden's mines give rise to both jobs and export revenues, not infrequently in areas that the common people may not know much about. To all of this, as I mentioned earlier, comes the production that we all associate with metals and minerals: cars, ball bearings, railway rails, batteries, electric wires, medical equipment, construction materials and much more. Let us note that if man had not learned to extract metals and minerals and to refine them, we would still have lived essentially as Stone Age men. I think that may be reflected on and that even fewer want to. Madam President, I would like What can we do in Sweden? How should we reverse the downward trend? How are we to avoid getting into a situation where the Parliamentary Constitutional Committee is again criticising the government for its handling of permit processes? How can we tackle the problems that the industry and large parts of the political opposition repeatedly point to? Let me give you some examples. We could start by revising the existing mineral strategy or developing a new one and then applying it. We could make the licensing procedures more effective, so that the applicant party has a counterpart to deal with the state's collective action, a so-called one-stop shop procedure. We could apply a system in which early in the permit process the basis on which the trial is to be conducted is to be determined in order to avoid the need for completion after completion being requested late into the process. We could strengthen SGU's ability to carry out one of the tasks the agency actually has: to conduct systematic mapping of ore-potential areas. We could also increase the incentives for the municipalities concerned to want an establishment by ensuring that a greater proportion of the values generated are actually returned there. For this reason, the Swedish Democrats propose a model in which the property tax for industrial properties and electricity production facilities applies to the affected regions that are given the task of distributing the money. Much of this is what we have been going on about here in debate after debate. So if the political will had existed and if the government had had the genuine will to move forward, it would have been perfectly possible to begin examining our proposals years ago or, even better, to implement them. Unfortunately, I do not see that the government has that will in full. In the autumn, it's a choice. Then it is hopefully time for Sweden to seriously shake off the environmental-partisan yoke that the Social Democratic Government is still carrying and for a new, industrial-friendly government to take on. Then I hope that we will begin the work of better valuing this industry for the country as important and creating good conditions for it to grow. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, of course, I support the twelve reservations expressed by the Swedish Democrats in the report, but for the time-winning vote, I am content to ask for the approval of reservation number 28 only.
i-WpzNVeTShPsmjrjLzkqWvY	Madam President, I would like Thank you all who listen this somewhat late hour! Access to metals and minerals is a prerequisite for modern society. Did you know that in your lifetime, 800 tons of minerals and metals will be needed per person? Almost everything you see around you has a direct connection to our bedrock. In this Chamber there may be pillars, glass, computers and telephones. At home it's the toothpaste, the jewelry, the appliances, the batteries or the speaker. And when we step out of this Parliament, as we go out on the street, we still see traces of and products that contain our bedrock. There are buses, cars, trains, bridges, lampposts, signs and far more. Actually, one could say that our modern lives would be virtually impossible without metals and minerals. But they are also essential for us to take the step into the future. For wind turbines, batteries and other climate-efficient solutions required for the green transition, we need metals and minerals that we have not broken before. Several of them are also found in our bedrock. Madam President, I would like In Sweden we have a long more than a thousand-year tradition of understanding and taking advantage of the mountain's raw materials. It is the start of long, growing value chains and is a backbone of the Swedish economy. Metals are elements. Therefore, they are recyclable as many times as possible. They therefore fit perfectly into the circular economy and play a crucial role in sustainable society. Metals that are mined are supplemented with recycled raw materials. It is good for both the environment and the economy to combine primary and recycled raw materials in the processing process. But only recycling, as some say, does not cover today's and future needs alone. A growing population and new technical solutions for the climate require more and more metals and minerals in the circular flow. Madam President, I would like As I said, the world needs more metals and minerals. With our transition to a more climate-smart society, there will also be increased demand. With regard to rare earth metals, which are needed for the production of, for example, electric vehicle batteries, hydrogen storage batteries, wind power, smartphones and drones, there is currently no production of this in Sweden or Europe. Globally, China is the largest producer. If I am not mistaken, I believe that 80% to 90% of world production is produced. Only a few percent of it is done today through recycling. But the mining company LKAB is now trying to develop methods for extracting iron from mining waste, which is very good and necessary. In this context, it is important to say that there is also a geopolitical aspect of the whole. The EU's eyes are therefore directed towards Sweden, among other things, in order to reduce dependence on, for example, China. Madam President, I would like The mining industry is important to Sweden and contributes to thousands of jobs, not least in the rural areas of northern Sweden, where I and several people live in this Chamber. Unfortunately, however, as some have mentioned in their speeches, long, expensive and unpredictable processing times for environmental permits, for example, have made more and more mining companies hesitate to invest here. This has made us less attractive as a mining country. It is not reasonable for a company to have to wait up to ten years to receive a reply, such as with Kallak. In the Center Party, we are opposed to the fact that different authorities can appeal each other's decisions instead of speaking with one voice. It creates enormous uncertainty and unpredictability for companies. We are also very concerned that the permit processes are so different from where you are in the country and which county administrative board you apply to. It is about how best to balance issues between conservation of natural areas and sustainable industrial development. It's supposed to be the same in the whole country, you might think. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, for a number of years the government has not done so much about this issue of permit procedures in order to overcome the situation until last year, which is, in itself, a good thing. As you know, it was the company Boliden who then announced that it is considering leaving Sweden because of the lengthy and difficult-to-understand permit processes. Then the Ministry of Industry reacted. An investigation has now been set up to facilitate the problem. It will be completed shortly after the elections this year, 2022. Madam President, I would like The consequence of companies like Boliden considering leaving Sweden is that an incredible number of jobs can be lost, and that Sweden misses out on the leadership shirt in the fossil-free, green transition that the government often says we should have. Swedish environmental legislation is among the strictest in the world. We want to continue to see this, even with simplified licensing processes. Our Swedish mining companies have progressed further in their sustainability efforts than any other country. However, if they choose to move abroad, there is a risk that extraction and processing will be carried out in a less sustainable way. It does not benefit the environment and the climate or the planet as a whole. Today we import copper and many other minerals from countries where environmental thinking is far less developed and where extraction takes place under very poor working conditions. At the same time, we have every opportunity to extract our own deposits in an environmentally sustainable way. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to mention a few things that I and the Center Party believe could benefit climate-smart investments for both mining companies and other industries. We see, for example, that the environmental code would need to be reviewed and supplemented with a climate aspect. The Environmental Code does not currently allow authorities and courts to take into account the climate benefits of a project in their permit decisions. This means that a court may have to reject an application for an investment because of its negative impact on the local environment, despite the fact that the investment would lead to a reduction in emissions. Madam President, I would like We also need to review how Sweden implements EU directives. Many times we choose to implement different EU rules in a much more strict way than other EU countries. This applies, for example, to the framework water directive. That is an excellent example. Others are Natura 2000 sites, the Birds Directive and the Species and Habitats Directive. This can lead to short-term benefits for the local environment, as many investments are being stopped. But it risks damaging the environment in a longer perspective if it stands in the way of green investments that reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Finally, I and the Center Party would also like to stress the possibility of reforming mineralisation and redistributing more tax revenue to the local community. I hope that the majority in this room will also agree with this, even when we then press the buttons in this House. An application to carry out environmentally hazardous activities does not only affect the company that wants to make an investment and the authorities that take a position on it. It also affects the local community where the investment is to take place. In order for us to achieve our climate goals, we need to change society. In order to succeed, the transition must also be supported by those affected by the transition, i.e. the local population. We in the Center Party believe that the way forward is not by coercion and the abolition of local self-determination, but by defending property rights and that the local community receives the compensation it deserves. Madam President, I would like We would therefore suggest that we investigate increasing mineralisation. It is a fee paid by the mining companies based on the amount of mineral that is mined. We will investigate how it can better benefit the local population. Today, the mineral levy goes only to those property owners and rightholders whose property is charged, which in many cases is the mining company itself. Instead, we want to investigate how it can be redistributed to the local population in a broader sense. We also want something else, which is no secret. Now there are others who respond to the message, for which we are very grateful. We want to create a system of regionalised tax bases. There, the tax base from electricity-producing properties, such as hydroelectric power, can go back to the local community and stay in the regions and municipalities where the business takes place. In this way, we look after local interests and build support for the necessary investments.
i-GVdGmuzyUSeYWBEjL9RGwZ	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Maybe someone at home is watching and listening. We are debating the Committee on Economic Affairs' report on mineral policy. Of course, we support all our reservations. However, I would simply like to highlight and call for the approval of reservation 13, Madam President. What has changed for two decades is that the issue of climate change is a matter of destiny for many policy areas. Or rather, we politicians need to take into account different balances so that we reach the climate targets, and that in turn affects our decisions in many areas. Mineral politics is no exception. As we move from fossil society to renewable and to green, yes, then we need ingredients, as a baker would put it, to make the whole. Then it is necessary to incorporate minerals of these various substances that occur in nature, as well as their chemical compositions and crystal structures. However, it takes a mine to access the substances needed in the transition, and then, once again, it is obviously an intervention in nature and the surrounding environment. Here various interests will collide, or at least break arms, about whose interests weigh the heaviest. Everyone realizes that minerals are needed, but often one comes to the conclusion: Yes, cut – but not here! There was a really good news this morning that LKAB will build an industrial park that will take advantage of by-products from iron ore mining and extract, among other things, phosphorus and rare earth minerals. It is really forward-looking and gratifying for Luleå and Norrbotten, I would say. On 14 December last year, Minister Karl-Petter-Petter Thorwaldsson gave us information in the committee and answered questions about the mining industry in Sweden. Furthermore, this year, on 5 April, the same minister informed the committee about the background to the government's decision to allow processing concessions for the planned iron ore mine in Kallak. I am not going to devote my speech to Kallak, but I note what I have often said and what I have often said in discussions at home and in my party: if a resource such as that in the case of Kallak, located in Jokkmokk, had been in, for example, Överkalix, the mine had already been started, I would say. The mine is well located in nature and geography, but the problem is that it is located in Jokkmokk. Today Jokkmokk contributes to the Swedish limited liability company, if I can call it that, with over 10 per cent of Sweden's electricity supply. Yet the municipality is one of the poorest in the country. Is that reasonable? Is it strange that the people of Jokkmokk hesitate when it comes to a mine? When you write Jokkmokk, especially in this town and in the environmental movement, it is also about the same as writing Sápmi. That, of course, also obliges. So taking this fight is unbelievable, if you ask me. Then it is good and important to know that this deposit is there, for who knows – perhaps in 200 years' time the local population who are there had sought processing concession for a mine? The report raises some reservations about permit processes. Nor do I think it is good when applications take several years or a decade, and equally bad is that an application is with the government for years. Whatever the decision, it is better for all parties to cough up what they intend to do. The fact that we are going to have faster processes is perhaps relevant, but starting to make environmental trials easier or less extensive will only lead to more problems in the future. I'm convinced of that. I will soon tell you about the mine in my municipality. I would like to mention that, when the mine opened, there were 29 million bankrupts the first time, I think it was for the restoration of everything that had been achieved and dug up. But everyone agreed that a restoration of the area would have cost at least 290 million. There is therefore some reason to discuss what is required in terms of the security of recovery when you want to open a mine. Very well, Madam President. Mines are needed, and as I've been trying to tell you, the need is different than a while ago. It depends on the climate aspect. I come from a municipality where we have a mine, Madam President. It came about under sunshine and pomp and glory, and the Prime Minister was there smelling the ore concentrate and stated: Here it smells like money. Then it was only a week or two – I think it was two weeks, but I'm not sure – before the mine was bankrupt. Opening a mine requires large capital and long-term investors. When Northland, as the mining company was called, went bankrupt, there were 13 billion in debt — 13 billion! That the mine is running today is really something of a miracle. It should be borne in mind that some investors have lost a lot of money and that it is thanks to them that the mine today exists and is in operation. Then, of course, there were busy people who, for other reasons, fought for the mine to open up instead of, for example, the enrichment plant being dismantled and sold abroad at scrap value. It would have ended up in Holland. The powers I'm talking about have been known for over a hundred years. I think it was in the late 1800s that they first drilled and knew that the ore body existed. Nevertheless, developments in enrichment and other technologies were needed before it became again interesting for some investors. I remember so well all the demonstration plaques in the first of May in the 70s, when I was just a kid. You could see the placards where it said, break Kaunisvaara, or we'll break down. It was an election slogan for many parties, because they wanted to break this ore. It has been a hope that the villages around the bargain have had with them for decades and is about getting jobs and hope for the future. I remember when the mine had opened and the company offered a tour of the area and in the open-air quarry with the help of a bus. My father was then 90 years old, but as someone who throughout his life followed the tours around the discovery and the struggle to get to a mine, he wanted to see the mine and the open pit at any price. Even though he was 90, there was nothing but joy and hope he saw when he realized that it was now reality and that the mine was running. That it then became a decline and a fresh start is a different story. The fact that the mine was almost unisoned by the locals was due to decline for decades and the struggle – even for decades – to get jobs and hope through a mine. That's probably the answer to why the protests didn't grow in us. There were some protesters, but almost unisoned thumb was given up for the mine. Madam President, back to my reservation, to which I voted in favour. Today, when the mine in my municipality of residence, for example, is in operation, more than 500 people work in the extraction chain. It is absolutely fantastic and a rescue for our municipality, I would definitely say, and of course it is a substantial addition to the municipal economy. But what if technological developments in the future lead to a reduction in staffing requirements by half, or less than that – perhaps a tenth? Then it will not be the same beneficial effect for the local area and the municipality. Remember what I told you about Jokkmokk! That is why we propose that the mineral levy be reviewed, so that there is more left to regions and municipalities of the values derived from our natural resources. The fee should preferably be regressive, i.e. that it becomes lower the more you process. We must see something else in the future. Today it works because we have a labour intensive production that gives money to the municipality, but I warn!
i-H76tMaFhSDkMEf3UPGzuds	Madam President, I would like I have to disappoint Mr Lahti a little, because I only asked for a reply because I forgot to mention the reservation that the Center Party and I want to support. We support reservation 12, which I support. I apologise for attracting my fine colleague to the speaker's chair in this way, but I can at least say that I had an intern here last week. She said: I and my classmates believe that you politicians usually only fight, and especially if you belong to different parties. Then she met many of you in here, and she felt that we had such respect for each other. And I would really like to say to Mr Lahti that, ever since the first day I met him, he has always shown respect, although we have not had the same opinion. The honourable Member will have all the credit for that. Then we share the view on the mineral levy, and I hope that this – and the return of hydropower and wind power money – will benefit small municipalities.
i-4PbmTWvCSE4JBofrLHGL8M	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Helena Lindahl, for the line! I also believe that what is a bit unique in our committee is that we are trying to find consensus on the issues where we have a common understanding. I had hoped that the Center Party would also vote for the Left Party's reservation, which would have led one step closer to a mineral fee, but I am pleased that I hear signals indicating the same thing. We want more of the values created out there to fall to the regions where they are extracted. As I said about Jokkmokk, it is not reasonable for Jokkmokk today to contribute, I think, 12 – 13% of the energy supply and yet the poorest municipality in the whole country. I am pleased to hear such signals.
i-GRFkHLnSBs3xLQS4gPRjMC	Madam President, I would like Now that I'm standing here, I can try to get myself into a final line. I agree. Many of the municipalities that contribute to these great values are, as I said in my speech, among the poorer municipalities in Sweden. It's about Jokkmokk, Ragunda and many more. At the same time, a larger proportion of the money coming from the municipal equalisation system goes to metropolitan regions and not at all to rural areas, as it was intended from the beginning when the system came to the 1960s. Many councillors I've met say they have so much stomach pain before current bills are due to be paid at the end of the month that they can't sleep. It's not supposed to be like that. I hope and believe that more parties in this House will support, for example, that the property tax from energy-producing properties will be able to go back to the producing municipalities and regions. That would be only right. Now that I take the opportunity to stand up here, I can also beat a blow so that northern Sweden will not be a colony for the rest of the country, as I feel it has been for a long time. If we are to have further establishment, local communities will also benefit from the profits generated on the ground.
i-SL2L7SLzrKwCfsR3sJMSuw	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Helena Lindahl, for the line shift! There is, of course, a discussion about wind power. We will not succeed in our green transition if we believe that we will have renewable electricity production in the standards we have unless the municipalities get a replacement model that somehow appeals to them so that they say yes – otherwise the municipal veto will say no. I am pleased that many others are also aware of this.
i-Gum1wkRhRE5Tytw2RmZW7Y	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1, so that I do not forget it now that we have seen a change of line that was in a very good spirit. I can also agree with the Members who were up here, Helena Lindahl and Birger Lahti, that we have a good atmosphere and are trying to find solutions. This is, of course, a subject that we have debated quite a lot in recent years in connection with various reports, but it is probably so important. It also proves the importance of this issue. It is important for the green transition. The listener has heard earlier this evening about many different parts that you do not think about where minerals and metals are needed. Then we need mines that work and contribute the raw materials and materials that we have as our resources. The Christian Democrats think that we need to take a holistic approach to the issue, see the entire value chain from start to finish product and see our responsibility in how we should take care of this. Madam President, I would like This is not a new issue, but it is an urgent issue. We were involved in directing a committee initiative that it was decided to direct from here the Riksdag to the government. It was about taking clear action in cases where Natura 2000 sites are required for the examination of a processing concession and to do so in connection with the environmental code test. The government has received this announcement, and it will return to the Riksdag by 30 June this year. I look forward to seeing the government act on this issue, for so far there have been a lot of words. We have heard the new Minister for Economic Affairs, Karl-Petter-Petter Thorwaldsson, who has really lifted up the mining industry. However, we have not seen any results, and we see that Sweden as a nation is going in the wrong direction. Here we need to jointly find solutions for how we can contribute to the transformation and for it not to take so long. It must not take too long; it must become simpler processes. Since we have not seen so much so far, we choose to make a proposal. Unfortunately, it has not received the approval of all parties, but we Christian Democrats, together with the Swedish Democrats, are now making a proposal that the government sees that there would be no need for a Natura 2000 permit when applying for a processing concession, precisely in order to contribute to a simplification journey that is still needed. Madam President, I would like I'm also going in a little bit on ownership. Here we really see a need to develop the landowner's position. We see a need to investigate the mineral law. The extent of ownership under the ground should also be looked at further. We should strive to have an increased break in Sweden for our own sake, for the sake of the European Union and for the sake of the climate. Here we also say that SGU should be given the task of carrying out a survey with that particular focus. If we are to become better at taking advantage of Sweden's assets regarding the mining and minerals industry in the climate transition, the mining needs to be increased. We also need to look at recycling and get it into the circular processes. Both are needed– we cannot believe that the circular will solve the whole transition. We will need new mines, where we see the deposits that we have and take care of them in a good way. We must do both if we are to live the life we live today and make the best use of the resources we have. So it is not just a question of having large assets in money. With these assets comes a responsibility to also manage and refine what we have. This is also a question of morality. We must have a global perspective, and we must make the best use of our resources and take our responsibility with all that it means. These are important questions. This is not the last time we will debate this issue in this House, for much more needs to be done.
i-PLEVpd7Qkp3Bj3HiTNL1nG	Madam President, I would like It is, of course, a bit frustrating to be so far down the list of speakers that you cannot take replies to colleagues in Parliament. Speaking of what the Moderates brought up about the gold mine that is being discussed near Lycksele, I think of Öreälven, the forest river that goes from Stöttingfjället all the way down to the Bothnian Sea and is a very nice and valuable river with river trout and a rich fishing. The problem with the gold mine that the Moderates advocate is that it will affect Öreälven through metal leakage. There will be a major environmental impact on Öreälven, which is also protected as a Natura 2000 site. I would also like to say a few words to Birger Lahti of the Left Party about this with Kaunis Iron. From the beginning, it was Northland Resources that got permission for the mine. At that time, no review was made according to the environmental code, since it was not an environmental court that did the examination. There are great risks with a mine without proper environmental permits. Madam President, I would like Of course, it is possible to talk about Sweden's almost thousand-year history of mining, as at least some of the bourgeois parties have done in this Chamber. However, the Green Party believes that the mineral law must instead be lifted into the future. For what is in our mining history? There are repressed Sami and contaminated water. There are also mining companies that have gone bankrupt and forced the state to go in and clean up with taxpayers' money. This still exists. The government has said yes to a mine in Kallak, or Gállok, as it is called in Sami. This will have serious consequences for the environment and the rights of the Sami people. At the same time as the government dealt with the administration case about Kallak, the Minister for Economic Affairs exclaimed that he loves mines. The Green Party has reported this to the Minister for Enterprise. The facts must come to light. Many journalists have dug in and reviewed this. Among other things, DN has shown that there is a risk that things have not gone right. Minister Thorwaldsson described the deposit as the largest unused iron ore discovery in Sweden and highlighted the high quality of the ore at the press conference held by the government. The formulation was almost directly taken from Beowulf Mining's material. Olof Martinsson, doctor of ore geology at Luleå University of Technology, says in an interview in Dagens Industri that he does not believe that the mine can be profitable with the demands made by the government. The same researcher has also pointed out that it is a small deposit with low iron content, that is to say the opposite of what the Minister for Economic Affairs said, and that the climate argument for the mine does not hold, because iron ore production is already large in Sweden. When the government took the decision on the processing concession in Kallak, it was pointed out that the national interest in reindeer nutrition and the national interest in valuable minerals was correct. In the assessment it then made, iron ore was clearly important, while the reindeer industry was only correct. The reindeer industry is an important part of the Sami cultural heritage and an economic activity. That is why the government also set out the points that were called unique and far-reaching conditions. The question is what legal status these conditions have. Can the government unilaterally decide on agreements with Sami villages without even agreeing with them first? How does it rhyme with the consultation order? Is it to occur the environmental test? Madam President, I would like The other day, I heard a Member of Parliament from a party to the right mention the Cementa affair and say something condescending about the county boards' environmental work. In this connection, I would like to say that there are a number of urgent problems linked to water in Gotland. There has been a long-standing shortage of water, which can be exacerbated by climate change. There is a great risk that salt water enters the bedrock and destroys the groundwater resource. Mining and quarrying, such as lime, have a huge impact on the water resource, which can affect, for example, the conditions for using the land in the surroundings or the possibility of getting drinking water in wells or water supplies. It is very serious when water resources are at stake. That is the point of departure because so many Gotlanders and environmentalists have reason to be worried. Here in the Swedish Parliament we invest billions in protecting Gotland militarily. We must also be more prepared to protect Gotland, its citizens and entrepreneurs, environmentally. Water supply is definitely part of civil defence and total defence. Higher environmental requirements need to be imposed on the mining industry. Innovation-critical metals and minerals are needed for electric cars, wind turbines and other products to reduce climate emissions. Several reports show scenarios with a significantly increased need for conversion minerals. It is minerals that are largely found in China and Russia. Each newly opened mine produces very large climate emissions. Thanks to the Green Party, Sweden now has the chance to get a climate target for reduced emissions from consumption. This has a great bearing on mineral policy. At the same time, it is simple mathematics that Earth's resources are limited. We have a planet but consume as if we had four. The most climate-smart measures are efficiency, recycling, reuse and – the very best – reduced consumption. There is significant potential for mineral recycling in metals. Unlike many other materials, the metal atom usually retains its quality and can be circulated many times. The Environmental Party has initiated a research review prepared by the Riksdag. The report shows that strong efforts are needed for a circular economy linked to mineral issues. Research and technological development are needed, but also legislation and incentives. The environmental party does not rule out new mining operations in Sweden at all. But there must be a better – an adequate – protection of the environment, species and water and respect for the rights of the Sami people. In an interpellation debate with the Minister for Economic Affairs, I proposed developing SGU's activities in Malå in order to better ensure knowledge of Sami conditions and avoid future conflicts. Similarly, the occurrences that exist can be better investigated and the worst places avoided at an early stage. Madam President, I would like Today, Sweden imports virtually all innovation-critical metals. It takes time to reduce consumption, increase recycling and tighten requirements for new mining operations. It is therefore important to work in parallel to strengthen the conditions for human rights and the environment in the import of materials. The Riksdag will shortly adopt a position on a company law on human rights and the environment. The law is called Corporate Sustainable Due Diligence. The bourgeois politicians' argument for opening new mines in Sweden is that we should not import minerals from Russia, China or Congo. Now it is up to them if it is an honest argument, for if it is, the bourgeois should push for a hard line from Sweden in terms of due diligence. The Green Party believes that there must be remedies and sanctions to ensure that all companies are covered by the law. I strongly urge the bourgeois parties to demand it too, for it would develop our activities here better. The environmental party is also working to ensure that the EU's existing conflict mineral regulation will have a strong implementation in Sweden and that Sweden will primarily invest in reduced consumption and, secondly, in increased reuse and recycling, in order to strengthen the protection of people and the environment in Sweden and other production countries. This is how we take mineral policy into the future. I support the Green Party's reservation, No. 18.
i-JtJrBrXKK6EcVxdUmWqq1z	Madam President, I would like I must seize this opportunity when Mr Gardfjell mentions my home town of Lycksele and the great debate about the mine in Fäboliden. It was probably running for 15 years and was owned by a company that went bankrupt. This company had all the permits needed to break the gold available in quite large quantities in a gold box passing through Lycksele municipality. I therefore find it very difficult to understand why the new company in Fäboliden, owned by a man named Josh Stewart, has had to wait seven years for the same permission as the previous company had. No impact on nature has occurred, and nothing has happened since the previous owner broke gold to quite a large extent. Member Gardfjell can therefore be sure that Öreälven will retain its river mussels and continue to be the tourist attraction it is today, of which we in Lycksele municipality are proud.
i-6farCY3UZNeEq7Hz2vFKFR	Madam President, I would like It is true that Lapland Goldminers went bankrupt, and unfortunately very many rogue companies in this area appear to be. Gold mining causes extremely high emissions of carbon dioxide, and very large amounts of material are to be transported to the enrichment plant. The ore contains about two grams of gold per ton, so there are huge amounts that are broken to produce some gold. It is difficult to see how such an activity can be reconciled with climate objectives. How do the Moderates view the issue of gold mines and the climate? Is this really what we should invest resources on in Sweden? Or should we invest in the more innovation-critical metals in the mining industry?
i-QUFY2AmEb5EdDvtorvVoDD	Madam President, I would like I think it's wrong to call Lapland Goldminers a rogue company. They also started up Svartliden, which is in close connection with Fäboliden. It is the enrichment plant that takes care of the ore taken up by Fäboliden. Gold is an important metal not only for us but for the whole world, and if you have received a Natura 2000 permit and a concession permit has already been issued, you should not have to start a process that takes seven years again. Although gold is not a critical metal, as I said, it is important. I must also correct Mr Gardfjell. Together with Region Gotland, Cementa has developed a solution that gives Gotland a large amount of drinking water. A water storage facility is opened and a water utility is paid for in order for water to be stored on the island between seasons. So what Mr Gardfjell said about Cementa is not really in line with the truth.
i-RsGgoDAXuzi12ML8CQZNhd	Madam President, I would like Talking about the truth can be a little sensitive if you don't really know that that is a suggestion that isn't real. Let us return to Västerbotten, Öreälven and the mining that is being discussed. There are risks of metal leakage in Öreälven. The Öreälven river is a Natura 2000 area, and it must be taken into account. There are also major conflicts with the reindeer industry. I can understand that Mr Rahm feels it is urgent that gold is mined in her area. Maybe it could be a locally produced gold necklace eventually, what do I know? But is it worth doing mining in the wrong places? Is it worth sacrificing the precious nature of a gold mine? In all honesty, I could take greater responsibility if it were innovation-critical metals we were talking about, but it's not. It is a gold mine, and at best there will be some gold necklaces or gold bars of this.
i-UhkJsTnibzJDewcYKqLUSB	Madam President, I would like This is a good, important and interesting debate on mineral policy. This is about no less than 58 exercise requests and 31 exercises. I would like to start by being clear about where we Social Democrats stand in this, and I therefore call for the committee's proposals to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. Madam President, I would like Sweden as a nation stands out as one of the world's most ancient mining and mineral countries. This is a contributing factor to our prosperity, and I feel proud of it. Sweden is a mining and mineral country with a large supply of both ore and minerals, which, as has been said, has greatly contributed to today's prosperity. There are many jobs, there is well-being and there is also the development of society's technological products that are completely dependent on metals and minerals, as previous speakers have also talked about here today. Thus, the mining and minerals industry is an important part of forming a sustainable world with sustainable products and services. At the same time, we see that our minerals will mean a great deal in the green transition, which we are in the middle of right now, and that will be even more in demand. This applies not least to innovation-critical metals and minerals that are necessary for the development of, for example, the next generation of wind turbines, electric car batteries and a lot of other products. In our transformation, we will be heavily dependent on access to these very minerals, something that Helena Lindahl also spoke about earlier in her speech. Swedish mining and mineral industry is prominent and important both for Sweden and beyond the country's borders. Sweden is an important producer of several metals and minerals already today. The new industrialization and electrification of our society will require even more metals and minerals, and Sweden must assume its responsibility to extract these minerals and metals that are so important in the green transition. This is also where the new jobs and the companies of the future are created. Madam President, I would like One of the more well-known examples of this success is the collaboration between SSAB, LKAB and Vattenfall in the Hybrid project, where the world's first fossil-free steel – steel without coal – has now been developed. It is a pioneering revolution for industry, and it can also create a real position shift in a positive direction for Sweden and Swedish industry in a competitive perspective. These are measures that have been put in place by policy. The companies have made their investments, and then it is important from an economic perspective but of course also from a climate perspective that we facilitate both the mining and mineral industries' efforts. Madam President, I would like As has been mentioned here in the speaker's chair, there are some investigations that have been launched and are about to be presented with concrete proposals so that it can become a reality. One issue that has been discussed for several years is the permit process and the time it takes to obtain permission. It's a set of rules. D is an economic perspective. Of course, it is also very important to bring this with you from a climate perspective. A review of the review processes is needed. It's really important. But before a review is carried out, it is too early to point out who should be responsible for what and when in the process it should enter. That's why these investigations are very important. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has received a regulatory letter as late as this year, 2022. It states that they have the task of conducting a feasibility study on the conditions for developing a joint government guidance for the environmental permit testing and the environmental assessment process. The purpose of the assignment is to enable a more uniform review process nationally – which is part of what we talked about earlier – to increase the effectiveness of the trial and increase the knowledge and predictability of the different stages of the process. The assignment will be carried out in consultation with the National Courts and County Administrative Boards and in collaboration with no less than ten other authorities. The assignment shall be reported to the Government Office no later than 30 June 2022. Madam President, I would like Growth analysis was commissioned in a regulatory letter this year to analyse the impact on business in the short and medium term of the disruptions and shocks that may arise from the war that is currently taking place in the middle of Europe. It can have an impact on the markets. The mission also includes analysing the effects of the Russian invasion of Ukraine and the sanctions against Russia and Belarus. The analysis should focus on trade flows, disruptions on both the intervention and demand sides and effects on prices that may rise as a result of the war. The economic consequences of society should also be broadly reflected in this mission. It must also report to the Government on an ongoing basis, depending on the future developments. Madam President, I would like I'm going to zoom out and sum up what I want to say here. Sweden should be a strong mining nation. We shall be proud of the Swedish mining industry. We will extract minerals and metals in a sustainable way to cope with the transformation in a good way. Permit processes must be made more efficient and predictable. Here is a lot going on to step by step make them more predictable and more efficient. The second part is, as I said, the war in Ukraine. It has certainly brought to light the fact that both we in Sweden and the EU need to become more self-sufficient in metals and minerals. Growth analysis has been commissioned to analyse the effects in Sweden's business sector in both the short and medium term of the disruptions that can occur in connection with the terrible war that is raging in the middle of Europe and as a result of the deteriorating security situation in our neighbourhood.
i-AXn4f3tgkRC5aBzK61LYqM	Madam President, I would like It is an honour to be part of the Committee on Economic Affairs' debates, and I would like to ask Mattias Jonsson a question that clearly highlights the fact that mineral extraction is so incredibly important for the green transition. Not a word did Mattias Jonsson mention recycling, reuse and consumption reduction, which are the most important strategies to meet the challenges ahead. Why is this no longer a government priority? Another issue that Mattias Jonsson raised, which I am very pleased about, is the issue of Hybrid, i.e. LKAB's, SSAB's and Vattenfall's investment in steel without coal. There are quite a few of us who are aware that this initiative would not have come about if it had not been for the important effort that the government made with the Industrial Klivet. In the run-up to the last elections, I stood in many debates where many, especially on the bourgeois side, were totally opposed to the Industrial Klivet. Now there are many who say that they were the ones who stood up for this development. The Social Democrats and the Green Party were in the government together then, and it is no secret that it was the Green Party that pushed the industrial life forward. Is there any chance of receiving a thank-you from the Social Democrats now?
i-8yawAHTwMAMEb8p4Po7CjZ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, honourable Member, for the questions. As far as I am concerned, there are two questions. One which I would like to respond to and which I do not agree with correctly is the claim that the Social Democrats no longer lift or push questions about the circular economy. One of the more important parts to manage the supply of minerals is to ensure that we get a better circular economy in place. We also have to work on recycling because it is a large part of this. We must have a survey, which today does not exist properly, in order to make an assessment of, for example, how much can be recovered. In spring 2020, the Government decided on a circular economy strategy. It's not that long ago. And in March 2021, SGU, together with the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, was commissioned to increase the opportunities for sustainable extraction of minerals and metals from secondary resources. There was an interim report as late as December 2021, and there will be a final report in 2023. So the government is working with full force on this, and it has not been forgotten. Then it is possible that the honourable Member did not understand what I said in my speech, but today it is working fully on ongoing processes. It's really important. As far as Hybrid is concerned, it is part of the fact that we have started the industry. There are many industries today that are flourishing because the government, also with the Green Party, has pursued an active industrial policy that has been beneficial. There, the Social Democrats and the Green Party have in many parts gone hand in hand.
i-SEWXrZhEqg6TTDoivxADmm	Madam President, I would like Thank you for that pass. I would absolutely like to say that I think the spoken word is very important in these debates on the circular economy. And I am fully aware of what the Green Party pushed forward in terms of the circular economy when we were sitting in the Ministry of the Environment and had very tough negotiations with the Ministers for Economic Affairs already then. I would like to return to another point raised by Mattias Jonsson in his speech, which I think is important. This concerns the issue of efficient processes. We also took action here. And it is part of the climate action plan that we should review the processes to get more climate-smart and more efficient processes. What is very important in this work is that we do not reduce environmental requirements, but that we ensure that we have less bureaucracy and that we speed up our management. This also requires the resources of the authorities to speed up the process. When the bourgeois parties decided on the budget last autumn, resources were deducted from, among other things, the county boards to work with more efficient processes. It is money that we have not seen coming back from the Social Democrats. Is it really wholehearted to work with more efficient processes when you do not support the authorities in this work?
i-VABNgqhYkaQ7kLMfxQb6x6	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions. To sum up this debate, I feel that there are a number of parties more right-wing who want to run very fast here and who may not fully take into account Swedish environmental legislation such as the Green Party and the Social Democrats many times argue – that we should ensure that we have strong environmental legislation in Sweden. Earlier in the debate, it was also apparent that the Minister for Economic Affairs has expressed his love for mines. In the same sense, however, the Minister for Economic Affairs said that he also loves Swedish environmental legislation and that it must go hand in hand. I think that's important to say. We're supposed to have efficient processes. They're taking way too long today. But we have to manage to do two things at once. We must be able to have effective processes but still take into account Swedish environmental legislation and local values, Sami rights, reindeer nutrition and so on. I am absolutely convinced that we can do that. However, it is not reasonable for cases to lie year after year or to feel that the processes are not predictable. It may well be that we also need to provide additional funds to get the processes going more efficiently. However, as we have investigations under way that will probably, with some changes, become a reality, it will also provide answers to what financial means need to be put in place to make this more effective and predictable, but which also takes into account Swedish environmental legislation.
