i-9DnGFSTnRcFbFiuJKehqHP	Madam President, I would like Today, we are once again debating measures following Russia's invasion of Ukraine. It is a war that has been going on for more than two months now. It is a war whose cruelty does not cease to touch us, hour by hour, day after day. The government's strategy in this very serious situation is clear. We will support Ukraine, push for sanctions against Russia and strengthen Sweden. In the additional amending budget that we are debating today, the focus is on the latter – strengthening Sweden and making it easier for ordinary people who have been hit hard by increased fuel prices when Russia screwed its cranes with energy to Europe. If Parliament says yes later today, the tax on diesel and petrol will be reduced from 1 May to the EU minimum for five months. The reduction of the energy tax by SEK 1 and 5 øre means that the price at pump is reduced by SEK 1 and 31 øre, at an estimated cost of SEK 3.9 billion. Together with the permanent reduction in the tax decided by Parliament last autumn, the tax reductions have helped to reduce the price by l kroner and 80 öre. The supplementary amending budget also contains proposals to authorise the donation of surplus doses of covid-19 vaccine. Covid-19 is no longer classified as a generally dangerous and socially dangerous disease, but the need for vaccines to avoid serious disease remains great around the world. Russia's invasion of Ukraine has greatly affected the world market price of oil and gas. We also see an increase in the prices of food, for example. People around Europe are directly affected in their everyday lives, and Sweden is no exception. No government can credibly promise to compensate for these price increases in full, but to mitigate the impact on households and businesses, the government has presented a wide range of measures. Our entrance has been to get in place as quickly as possible measures that can actually become a reality. The package of measures includes, among other things, the specific tax reduction that we are deciding on today. It is an important and powerful measure that provides a relief for households at a time of very volatile fuel prices. But we also see the importance of more accurate distribution policies. We therefore propose, for example, an increase in the housing allowance for families with children. But we are now in a new situation. International organisations such as the OECD and the IMF warn against giving too general support. It risks driving inflation and eroding public finances, a situation that would only further harm the households and businesses we are trying to support. In this situation, measures supporting households with the weakest economies are advocated, those who, even before the price increases, twisted every penny to make the money last for the necessary whole month. It is an analysis that is important to have with you in the further work. Madam President, I would like The uncertain economic situation also makes it important to safeguard the orderly and coherent budgetary process. These are the principles which enabled us to face both the Corona and the new security policy situation with a strong economy. When we entered the pandemic, the public debt was the lowest since 1977. In crisis, of course, that position of strength should be used. But even in times of crisis, responsibility for taxpayers' money is important. For example, the importance of good preparation needs to be weighed against the need to get action on the ground quickly. That is precisely why there should be special reasons for the government to present an additional amending budget by the end of the day. If there are no specific reasons, the issues should be dealt with within the framework of regular budgetary processes. Madam President, I would like Today we are also dealing with the proposals for announcements by the majority of committees. They are about supporting agriculture to ensure Swedish food readiness and increased support to civil society for their work on the reception of refugees from Ukraine. Swedish agriculture has been severely affected by increased costs for several inputs in the wake of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Securing Swedish food production is important not least for Swedish food readiness in the event of a crisis. The government has therefore now, as in previous crises such as drought, taken action. Earlier this spring, a first package of measures of SEK 1.1 billion was presented, and last Monday the government, together with the Center Party, presented an additional package of measures containing aid for the livestock sector, increased Norrland support, support for professional fishing and retroactive refund of diesel tax. In total, it is about SEK 3.2 billion. Ensuring sustainable food production in Sweden and the EU requires a common agricultural policy that is stable and does not undermine competition in the market. It would be unfortunate if the Member States of the European Union were to increasingly request derogations from and depart from the EU rules that we have jointly agreed. We are therefore critical of the proposal by the majority of committees to press for derogations from EU state aid rules in a number of areas without a deeper analysis. Such a choice can have very negative consequences for Swedish agriculture. Therefore, such choices need to be thoroughly analysed. We have therefore reserved ourselves against the announcement. During the process, we have also raised the eyebrows of the order that parties in the committee have merged their wish lists on support for agriculture rather than agreeing on a reasonable priority. With regard to the proposal for the announcement of increased funding for civil society, we naturally share the view that civil society and religious communities are doing an important job in order for the reception and integration to work well. In order to support civil society's efforts, the government has therefore proposed SEK 100 million in the amending budget to civil society organisations specifically for efforts for protection from the war in Ukraine. That is why we believe it is premature that the parliamentary majority already wants to establish that there are specific reasons for an additional amending budget with additional support for civil society. But the government will continue to follow developments and, of course, is prepared to take further action if necessary. Madam President, I would like I would therefore like to support the Government's draft supplementary amending budget, that is to say, in paragraph 1 of the report, and also to endorse all the reservations expressed by the Social Democrats, that is to say, in paragraphs 2 and 3.
i-PWpwjeDgC3wVwdbviNa4Ry	Madam President, I would like As you know, there is a terrible war going on in Ukraine. It is illegal and terrible in every way possible, and innocent civilians are affected and killed. Of course, we in this House spend much of our time thinking about what we and Sweden can do to put an end to the war as soon as possible. That is why the Green Party has proposed an immediate halt to all imports of Russian energy, whether gas, oil, uranium or biofuels. It should of course be stopped at EU level if possible, but Sweden should also be able to show that we are a pioneer country and do it unilaterally. Beyond the issue of an end to the war, of course, there is also the question of the effects here in Sweden on households and how we can support that we all get through the situation. These two questions should not work against each other and stand against each other. We cannot, with one hand, try to stop the war and, with the other, act in this House in a way that fattens Putin's war fund. Fortunately, there are those who are not just sitting around and enjoying this, but who are experts and researchers and who have a competence that we in this House lack in terms of how to proceed. I was going to quote some of them. It is Johan Gars, environmental economist at the Beijer Institute, Daniel Spiro, economist at Uppsala University and Henrik Wachtmeister, researcher in global energy systems at Uppsala University. These three have written a debate article in Dagens Nyheter where they write about how Sweden can act and how Europe should act so as not to fatten Putin's war fund in this terrible situation. They have written a research study on how much Russia benefits from the fact that EU countries are now moving on a broad front, almost all countries, with reduced taxes on fuel. They write on DN Debate: a zero-sum game that involves large extra revenues for Russia – possibly up to 400 million SEK per day in the first month. The effect then decreases a little, but it still means SEK 40 billion on an annual basis. And this is in addition to the SEK 6 billion a day for which the EU is already buying Russian energy today. Just to take this 400 million, which then gets a little smaller per day, and put them in context of what it means for Putin: that means the equivalent of 1 000 professional soldiers for a year. So what Putin benefits in a single day by European countries lowering the tax on fuels, he can spend 1 000 professional soldiers for a year. That's the actual numbers. What I want to show with the quote and the debate article is that what seven out of eight parties in this House are doing right now is, with one hand, wanting to put an end to the war but with the other, acting in a way that fattens Putin's war fund. That is exactly what we should certainly not do if we want to destroy Russia's ability to continue its war of aggression in Ukraine as soon as possible. This is happening at the same time as we also live in a climate emergency. What happens when you lower the tax on fossil fuels is that you contribute to maintaining high demand. That is what fattens Putin war fund, but it is also what is currently causing us to see that several countries around the world are now opening up new oil fields. It is about the way we act in this House. It is also about many other parliaments, but it is not least what seven out of eight parties are doing in this House that is leading us now to open new oil fields – oil fields that might not have been opened otherwise. Several new oil fields around the world have been announced because of this sustained demand for fossil fuels. This action is dangerous both for the war and for the climate. The strange thing is that it happens in a situation where we actually have alternatives. It is possible to act in a way to stop the war and to support our households and businesses through the crisis. You can do as the Green Party has done: we have put forward major crisis aid and large aid packages that are about getting out of the situation of fossil dependence rather than fattening it. It is, for example, a question of speeding up electrification in the transport sector. We want to give extra support to those who live in rural areas and buy an electric car. If you also scrap your fossil car you get additional support; you can get up to 90 000 SEK if you scrap a fossil car and buy an electric car. We need to think about energy efficiency. There is a historylessness here, because in previous crises there has been number one. Then you've said, "Saming to work!" Act to reduce your energy needs before we support for more energy use! During the oil crisis and in previous war situations, Swedish policy has acted to achieve more energy efficiency. We need to focus more on that. We can support by lowering taxes on other things. For example, we can reduce taxes widely for those living in sparsely populated areas. The researchers I'm talking about mention in their article that the corresponding amount of money directly into the wallet for ordinary people gives exactly the same support, but it does not support Putin. There will only be a marginal impact on aid to Putin if you lower the tax and place money directly in your wallet instead of lowering the tax on those who choose to buy Putin's oil. We can lower the food stuff. We see that inflation is already driving up the price of food and that we have a shortage of inputs that contribute to higher food prices. Food is something everyone needs, whether you choose to buy Putin's oil or not. We can work on one-off payments to people who really need it. All the things that I have now listed are things that the Green Party has come up with in large support packages. These are things that do not help either to fuel the climate crisis or to fatten Putin's war fund. In other words, it is possible to do something in this direction without acting in the way that destroys the possibility of stopping the war in Ukraine. I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-XHjJwWGbgZ6VWA5G2LtLU8	Madam President, I would like Today we have an additional budget on the table, as a result of Russia's war of aggression against Ukraine. Let me say to the other speakers who have already stated that this is, first and foremost, an enormous human suffering for the people who are now exposed to the horrors of war in our neighbourhood. This Parliament has decided in broad agreement that we are sending both weapons and money to enable Ukraine to defend itself against the Russian aggressor. It's been important. What we are dealing with today, Madam President, is the impact the war also has on the Swedish economy, Swedish households and Swedish companies. What is remarkable in this is that it is the result of initiatives by various parties in Parliament, Madam President, and not from the government. It is therefore not the government that takes the initiative to mitigate the effects on Swedish households. Today we are going to reduce the tax on petrol and diesel by 1 krona and 30 krona. Together with the previous reduction of 50 cents that the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats announced in the current budget this year, this means that on Sunday, May 1, the price will be lowered by pump with 1 crown and 80 cents. So those of you who are thinking about refueling the car might wait until Sunday, if you have the opportunity, because then it will be significantly cheaper! This is part one of three in the package prepared by the Moderates, Madam President, to bring down the price at the pump by SEK 5 per litre. We are doing this to counter the problems caused by high prices for households and businesses in a country with long distances on the outskirts of Europe. We need to get the price down at the pump significantly. Already before the war we had a situation where Sweden had the world's highest price of petrol and diesel. It put great pressure on households even before the war, and with the cost increases that we have seen now, it has become very difficult to bear. This also adds to inflation, remember. The costs of the companies are further charged to subcontractors and ultimately to customers. What we can do, Madam President, is to make proposals to Parliament, as the Moderates did: 5 SEK at the pump. We produced the proposal together with Peder Blohm Bokenhielm and the Fuel Rebellion, so a big thank you to him. I would also like to express my particular thanks to Ali Esbati and the Left Party, who were constructive in the talks that allowed us to have the proposal in place. Many thanks also to the Swedish Democrats, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals, who supported the proposal! But remember, you who listen to the debate, that this happened with great resistance from the Social Democrats and the government. At every step they said: We don't want to do this, we can't do this, this can't be done. And on point after point, the committee has shown that it is absolutely possible to do these things in order to mitigate the consequences for households and businesses. You can do it if you want. Madam President, I would like Russia's war of aggression has also meant that a lot of other things have become considerably more expensive. Russia, as we have noted, is a major producer of oil and gas but also of fertilizers, which puts great pressure on agriculture both in Sweden and in large parts of Europe. This means that in large parts of southern Europe the spring sowings were in danger from the beginning when the war broke out. The second package on the table concerns crisis support of SEK 4.6 billion for Swedish agriculture. Or it is not really a crisis support for agriculture but a support to ensure that there is Swedish food on the store shelves in the autumn and winter. We live in a modern society where food is largely imported, and we have forgotten what makes us have something to eat. It has to work with spring sowing. It must work with new herds of pigs and other meat animals. When this infrastructure is threatened in the way the war has meant, we also risk food crises in large parts of the world. Sweden as a rich country will certainly be able to bid on the world market in autumn and winter, but Sweden also has a responsibility to ensure food production so that the food is also sufficient for other parts of the world. This is a good proposal that meets widely with Swedish agriculture. We were a little surprised, Madam President, when we saw that the Center Party and the government took part of what was the committee's proposal and presented it as a separate proposal. The important thing is that we implement these parts, but we were a little surprised. At the same time, we note that the Social Democrats today intend to vote against this package, while standing next to the Center Party and saying: let us make some parts of the package. But I guess that's what those parties will be responsible for. The important thing is that the support comes in place and secures the Swedish food production so that there is food on the store shelves for winter. Madam President, I would like The Moderates also support the proposal made by Jakob Forssmed and Mats Persson from the Christian Democrats and the Liberals respectively to support civil society in order to cope with the reception when we now have many Ukrainian refugees coming. Civil society will have to take a very large responsibility in the emergency reception phase but also with other different actions along the way. It is therefore an important message to civil society that there is a unanimous parliament behind this proposal. Madam President, I would like I am very pleased that on Sunday, 1 May, we will be able to tell the Swedish people that the price of fuel at pump has been 1 crown and 80 öre lower. This will make a big difference for households and businesses. But we will not give up, Madam President. The other two parts, which together will get the price down at pump by 5 crowns, we will not release. The majority of committees is also very clear that we will pursue this. The first part, on which we are deciding today and which is being implemented on Sunday, is about reducing energy tax down to the minimum level of the European Union. The second part of the proposal is about the government being given a mandate to ensure that through negotiations with the European Parliament and the European Commission, a request for an exemption can be made to bring the price below the EU minimum level in the Energy Taxation Directive. The third part, Madam President, is about reducing the involvement of biofuels, that is to say, retroactively changing the reduction obligation for this year, in order to ensure that the price is reduced here and now. These three parts together get the price down at the pump by 5 crowns liter. One thing surprises me a little, Madam President, but this perhaps the chairman of the Committee on Finance, Åsa Westlund, can answer: the Social Democrats in the Riksdag are now behind the proposal put forward by the Moderates, which brought together a majority in the committee. They will vote in favour of it today. The committee says that all parts of the initiative should be implemented. At the same time, the same party in the government says that they do not want to do anything more. There are two positions which the Social Democrats have and which are reasonably quite incompatible with each other. First they say: That is enough, we are not going to help, we are not going to do anything more, we are going to make things more difficult, we are going to make problems, we are not going to reduce taxes any more for those who need cheaper fuel. In the second breath they say: Yes, we are behind the other committee majority and intend to do so. The two positions, Madam President, do not add up. I hope that the chairman of the Committee on Finance, Åsa Westlund, will be able to bring some clarity to those who follow the debate. What's the big deal? What is the position of the Social Democrats in this? Do you want to complete the Moderates' proposal all the way and get the price down by 5 crowns at the pump, or is it enough now? I think those who listen are very interested in that. With that, Madam President, on behalf of the Moderates, I support the committee's proposal in all parts of the report. These are important things to get in place for Swedish households.
i-VbPLvykp222w4cUofaBiME	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl very much wanted me to clarify what is the policy of the Social Democrats. I'd love to, even if I think we've done it a lot of times. We have a very pragmatic approach. For us, the result is the most important thing, what makes a difference in people's wallet. That is why we have put forward proposals which can easily be implemented here and now without requiring any interference from other parties and which could also be a clear message to the voters here and now. That is why we support the tax cuts that we are voting on today and which will take effect on 1 May. However, we are also in favour of trying to push ahead in Europe. If we can do that, we welcome it. The Prime Minister has even raised this at the highest level himself in order to obtain the result that we can temporarily reduce the tax even further, below the minimum level of the European Union. If this is not possible, we have proposed direct fuel compensation of SEK 1 000 per car, a little higher for those living in sparsely populated areas. It has not said that the Moderates will be willing to support if the EU road proves impossible. Perhaps we can get a message today from Edward Riedl: if it now turns out that the EU road is actually not working, that 27 Member States cannot agree to give Sweden the opportunity that the Moderates want, do you care about the consumer's wallet, or was it actually a tax reduction campaign that was the most important thing? Do you care about the Swedish people's wallets and agree to our proposal that we can implement here and now, namely a thousand more for everyone who owns a car?
i-L4wgBWSfTHfu2pvcRdijFo	Madam President, I would like Let me make a few things clear to you who are listening. There is no government proposal for SEK 1 000 for consumers. There is no such proposal submitted. There is a proposal, and it is the Moderate's proposal of 5 SEK lower price per litre at pump. That proposal exists, and there was also a majority in the Committee on Finance. The first part of the three parts to reduce the price by 5 crowns at the pump we decide on today. It will take effect on Sunday and will make it easier for a great many consumers. The second part of the proposal is about asking for a derogation in the EU with regard to the Energy Taxation Directive. Then I and perhaps the Swedish people would like to know: Has this government submitted such an application for exemption – yes or no? Sweden will never receive an exception in the EU unless we submit an application. So my first question is, Madam President: has the government submitted such an application? The third part in terms of getting the price down at the pump was to retroactively reduce the reduction obligation. How far has the government come about this? We have not seen any proposal coming at Parliament's table. Those of you who listen to the debate! Trust us! The majority of committees will not be as slow as this government. We will ensure that all elements of the proposal made by the Moderates will be implemented. The price should be down by 5 SEK per litre at pump. It is clear that we are prepared to discuss other proposals if something turns out to be impossible, which we do not believe. Then we wouldn't have done this. But it is important for those of you who listen to understand that there are no other proposals. This government has not produced any other proposals. You talk a lot, and you have a lot of press conferences. But there have been very few proposals to the Swedish Parliament. And then it's very difficult to take a stand on them.
i-Cm5MqaydRcniYDdMWtUpEr	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Edward Riedl for his reply. Edward Riedl says there is no government proposal. In fact, when the government presents things, it will also produce those proposals. The government and the authorities are now working for high pressure on it. When the Moderates present a proposal, they write a paper and call it their proposal. However, writing it on one piece of paper instead of another does not make it possible to do so. The sum total – it is a little unclear when listening to Edward Riedl – how what the Moderates want to go about at EU level. There is therefore no possibility of requesting derogations, as it stands today. A number of Member States and the European Commission must be persuaded to open up to this possibility. Edward Riedl avoided mentioning the other Member States. He spoke about the European Parliament and other institutions within the European Union. But it is the Member States that we must convince. In order to achieve this, it is reasonably most effective to raise it with the other Heads of State or Government. There is no such process as Edward Riedl refers to. The Prime Minister has picked it up. And we continue to push the issue. However, we cannot do this for years. Consumers need information here and now. If it turns out that it is not a way forward within a reasonable time, the government will present the proposal that is now being prepared. Then the Moderates will still owe the consumers the answer. Can they expect to get this relief in their wallet? Or is this only true if the Moderates get through exactly what they think is best and also succeed in convincing 26 other Member States? Will consumers be allowed to stand without compensation if this is not possible?
i-PmRdBZG2XuBetTyNw7Zb5L	Madam President, I would like You listeners! First of all, we could note that there was no response. The application has not been submitted. After two months, there is no proposal at Parliament's table about a thousand pieces that you talk about. No application has been sent to Brussels. So this government is still sitting on its hands and wondering why no one wants what the government wants. Madam President, I would like It's not gonna work. It is in this way that if you want support for your proposals, you can present them to the Riksdag. And if you want an exception in Brussels, you can submit an application for it. If you do not, you will not succeed. It sounds like parties are sending in papers here and there. In fact, however, there is nothing to be decided in this House if no proposals are submitted. Today, we will be able to decide to reduce the tax on pumps from 1 May. We do this because there was a proposal to the Committee on Finance. The Committee on Finance has dealt with it, and the Parliament can today make a decision on it. It will be implemented until Sunday. Then it will be 1 crown and 80 cents cheaper for you who go and think. That's how politics works. But then you have to do the job, Madam President. This government has consistently chosen not to do so. No proposals are made. You try to say you're doing everything you can. But what you're really saying is, this can't be done. We can't do this. We don't want this. Then not much will happen. Sweden would have needed a more effective government on this occasion.
i-QuL8w7MktAmpJc6DVy4zD9	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating an additional amending budget with proposals for, among other things, a temporary reduction in taxes on petrol and diesel. The report also contains two new committee initiatives which have gained the majority in the Committee on Finance. Both are a consequence of Russia's terrible invasion of Ukraine. Once again, the Committee on Finance has taken the initiative that the Riksdag should commission the government to work out a sharp proposal to support a very severely affected sector: farmers. According to the announcement that we are proposing, the government will, among other things, come back by substantially increasing the existing emergency aid to the pig and poultry sectors. At the same time, additional emergency aid for milk, beef, lamb and sheep farms will be introduced. At least SEK 1.5 billion will be added to this sector. The government is tasked with actively pursuing at EU level the introduction of a block exemption from state aid rules for the animal sector in particular, as a result of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. This could mean an additional SEK 1.5 billion. The government is proposed to allow farmers to use all their land as well as possible without prejudice to existing greening aid. It requires the government to negotiate with the EU; that is true. The government will also come back as soon as possible with proposals for a temporary derogation from EU state aid rules to support plant-growing companies and, in particular, wheat growers. There is a space of up to SEK 1 billion. The government has announced that it will maximise the refund of diesel tax on agriculture and forestry from 1 July this year. Now the government is tasked with developing a solution to be able to refund diesel tax retroactively from 1 January this year. In addition, the Government is tasked with increasing the so-called Norrland support maximum during 2022. Fortunately, the Finance Minister has been voting today by running over his own members of the Committee on Finance. They are opposed to the whole proposal and say no to the whole package of support for farmers. Some of the points I have mentioned are therefore on the way to becoming a reality, despite the fact that the Social Democrats have constantly said no to this in the process. This reddish-red mess is well attributed to the minority government, which has to adapt beautifully to the opposition's majority decision. Madam President, I would like The Government has been commissioned by the Riksdag to work by all means to reduce today's extremely high fuel prices. It is about saving companies that rely on fuel for their business. It is about supporting individuals who depend on the car, so that they can actually afford to use it. In this supplementary amending budget, the government has come back with a proposal to reduce the tax to the minimum permitted by the EU. In practice, it is a reduction of SEK 1 and SEK 5 at pump from 1 May to 30 September. We believe that the price is still far too high. Reducing tax and VAT on fuel would be desirable on a permanent basis, given how taxes have increased over time. But it is uncertain whether it is a way forward, because Sweden does not have the right to decide over its own taxes. Precisely fuel taxes are governed by the EU Energy Taxation Directive. The Swedish Democrats have long pushed the issue of lower fuel prices. What we can influence is the involvement of biofuels in the Swedish fuel mix, i.e. the reduction obligation. This issue is decided at national level. The reduction obligation for diesel in Sweden is currently at just over 30 per cent. We want a lower reduction requirement – 5% for diesel and 2% for petrol. This would allow us to continue to use domestically produced biofuels with a high environmental performance while at the same time refraining from less sustainable imported alternatives that are at best only ineffective but at worst counterproductive. It should also be borne in mind that fuel consumption is increasing significantly with the incorporation of biofuels, which also increases costs for consumers. Madam President, I would like Another inconvenient fact is that after decades of efforts Sweden does not have a large domestic production of biofuels. On the contrary, demand is met with extensive imports. In the Swedish Energy Agency's report Fuel 2020, 93 percent of the HVO and FAME used in Sweden in 2020 are estimated to be imported. Due to the requirement for high mixing, Sweden's fuel operators are vacuuming the market at HVO made from slaughterhouse waste. This leads to a remarkably high demand for HVO from large-scale slaughterhouses. A discussion on the sustainability of consuming slaughterhouse waste from Australia for transport in Sweden, for example, has unfortunately not been held. Neither the unethical aspect of favouring large-scale slaughterhouses that do not live up to Swedish animal welfare at slaughter nor the long transports over the earth is mentioned. These transports are not carried out using sustainable fuels. The European Commission recently called on Member States to reduce the involvement of biofuels due to the high food prices in the Union. We should therefore focus on using our arable land for edible crops for safety reasons and for the risk of lower access to food. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats believe that fuel policy needs to relate to reality and stop working towards both households and companies. The criticism that lower fuel prices would lead to increased emissions simply does not hold up. The price at the pump would also be extremely high with our proposal for several crowns reduction by severely reduced reduction obligation and hardly pose any risk of us enjoying driving our cars. Finally, I would like to support the proposal in the report.
i-3Fmkf5n8nnUZCiuiJLEcRw	Madam President, I would like Two speakers have now said that the Social Democrats in Parliament would not support what the Social Democratic Government presented as recently as yesterday about support for Swedish agriculture. So I felt compelled to ask for a reply and give a little explanation. The majority of committees today endorses a whole new principle of announcements. It is proposed in an announcement to the government that the government should do what it has already said it should do. It's still a whole new order. We have already seen an explosion of announcements, and now the majority of committees are taking this one step further. We do not have to tell the government that it will do what it has already said it will do. We believe that the points on agriculture in the announcement are completely superfluous. With regard to the other points, we see a huge risk that other countries will significantly increase their support for agriculture if we open up to removing EU state aid rules in the field of agriculture. We do not believe that Swedish farmers, who are used to coping with competition, benefit from high subsidies in France. It would have taken a better analysis than just to think a little in an announcement. That is why we have reserved for the proposal. We do not think it is prepared, and we believe that opening this door as easy as the majority of the committees does will have serious consequences for Swedish agriculture. For the sake of fact, Charlotte Quensel : Do not the Swedish democrats see a risk that Europe's countries begin to compete with each other to increase tax subsidies to agriculture again and that it may harm Swedish agriculture?
i-14XnqHgSEcYAhmG5mt4Mfh	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to answer the question as to why we are sticking to discussing the whole report. We have had a very short process. We have worked as soon as we can because the government has wanted it so that you can get different support quickly where they should be. Only yesterday the Social Democrats in the committee said that they were behind their entire reservation, that is, that the proposal should fall. I understand that, because suddenly the Minister for Finance obviously does not think it is so important to stick to what the Social Democrats say in Parliament that a thorough analysis should be carried out. This text – the special opinion – was sent to us at the end of last week and stated that there was not enough time to carry out a thorough analysis. That is why the proposals would be rejected. That is what the President's reservation says. That's why it got a little weird when the Minister of Finance had done such an analysis by Monday. I think this is about the government not having a majority. Instead of having to accept and do this, we want to go ahead with the points that are suddenly considered acceptable to the Committee on Finance. Then we try to make it appear that it does not come from the Committee on Finance and the opposition, but that we come up with an initiative ourselves.
i-DiwARpJ1umYbQLgBGdw5i	Madam President, I would like You don't have to speculate and guess. The government has said throughout the process that it is working on a good design for a support that it will present. It's been clear all the way. I can reassure Charlotte Quensel that the government did not present proposals on Monday that we in the Committee on Finance have not been involved in. We have been involved all the way and, of course, we in our party write our reservations on the basis of our common positions, that is, from the Social Democrats in both the government and the Riksdag. There's a difference. When the government presents proposals, you should know exactly what is proposed. Not only can we say that a little more support is needed for agriculture, but the proposals must be clear and can be implemented. It has now been presented, and we are, as expressed in our reservation, of course behind everything that the government has presented in support of agriculture, but we continue to be very critical of the fact that the majority of committees say, without further analysis, that the rules applicable to common EU competition rules in the agricultural sector should be violated. We believe that it could seriously harm Swedish agriculture. This analysis is shared by the Social Democrats in both parliament and government. It's not a door that you casually open. If we are to have that order, it will cost taxpayers a lot. The EU's agricultural subsidies are not usually among the most popular parts of Swedish politics. That is why we should not open that door lightly either. I am concerned that the majority of the committee is doing so today without a thorough analysis, and that is why we have reserved ourselves against the proposal that moves forward and opens the door to upset the state aid rules.
i-5DLATAveMpL4wcNoxMqSyx	Madam President, I would like In mid-March, the European Commission itself opened up to mess this up. This was done because of the serious crisis in Europe. So this happened a long time ago. I still do not understand what the chairman of the Committee on Finance means. The whole proposal was rejected late last week and stated that it was not sufficiently analysed. Then the Minister of Finance came on Monday and had analysed these issues sufficiently well. It's about days. The Social Democratic Members of the Committee on Finance could not have submitted a proposal under pressure of time and instead synchronised with their own Minister of Finance. It is still the case that the proposals raised by the Finance Minister together with the Centre Party last Monday come from a draft committee initiative in the Finance Committee, and it is a committee initiative which has been opposed by the Social Democrats from day one.
i-QsTdW7BD5negKBh9TXYPv9	Madam President, I would like I will shortly come to the extremely difficult situation for Sweden's farmers and for the Swedish countryside, which we are debating today. It is two months after Russia's invasion of Ukraine began, it is still impossible not to start a speech by addressing the situation there with Putin and his generals' abominable massive crimes against all that humanity should stand for. This also applies to the heroic resistance in which Ukraine has been resisting a totally improbable power for two months now. They may even be able to win in this struggle for the freedom of all of us, if they only get a little bigger gutter of support militarily and humanitarian from us in the free world. But the war and human crimes have also forced millions of people to flee, and a small proportion of them have come to Sweden. Here Swedes have shown, on a quite different scale, a different kind of heroism. When I visited the refugee home in a former school in Haninge, where some 140 Ukrainian refugees live, mothers, children and old, they were received by so many volunteers. I met people who bought food, carried beds, lifted furniture, and filled the children's room with toys and stuffed animals far up the walls. Swedish civil society has risen as a man, as a woman, to make the Ukrainians who have come here feel safe with us. But after two months, you walk on the rims. The energy isn't over, fantastic enough, but the money you have to use is. In particular, let me highlight the work of the people's education organisations to help the Ukrainians – they are the ones who are doing it right now – to get into the language with the help of what is called Swedish now. They help thousands of Ukrainians to start learning Swedish in the country they now temporarily call their home, and they need more resources because the money is over. For all these reasons, we have put forward a request for an addition to this amending budget, namely to vigorously increase resources for Swedish civil society. The SEK 100 million put forward by the government in the spring change budget will not be enough. There's more to it. But the war has also led to an ever worse crisis for Sweden's farmers. The farmers' costs have been extreme for a long time. As early as last year, the Center Party demanded an emergency billion to save Swedish food production. At the beginning of the year, when prices continued to rush, we thanked the Swedish parliament, the other parties, for supporting us in setting up an emergency package, which is now being implemented by the government in the spring change budget, of 1.1 billion to Sweden's farmers, through the removal of all taxes on diesel for one year from July this year and a first aid to our hard-tested farmers in particular, but also other vulnerable industries. With the war, we have had a new emergency situation, Madam President, where prices have rushed. It's a quadruple bang for Sweden's animal friends. There are extreme prices for fuel and electricity, as well as for feed and manure. That's where the price has doubled. Swedish producers are being knocked out. Lifeworks are about to be crushed. Swedish food production is threatening to be destroyed. Pigmeat production may collapse by more than a quarter. This is happening precisely as our total defence requires that Swedish self-sufficiency of food increases from today's totally unsustainable 50%. That is why we have tabled a proposal, which has now become a very broad committee initiative, for a full retroactive abolition of the tax on diesel from 1 January 2022 and a very comprehensive package to save Swedish livestock production. We are doing everything within today's European rules, that is, what has changed and what has existed since before. We wanted EUR 1.5 billion in support under those rules, but we have also called for the government at European level to operate and create support for a block exemption for livestock production so that we can provide an equal additional amount of support. In addition, we demand that the Norrland aid – especially for farmers with long distances – increase the maximum. Here I would particularly like to thank the Moderates for their good cooperation and for putting all their strength behind this initiative. The objective of such an initiative is, of course, for Sweden's farmers to deliver in reality, as soon as possible, in order to alleviate the acute crisis as close as possible here and now as possible. That is why I am grateful for the fact that, on Monday, the Centre Party and the Government were able to deliver in cooperation the retroactive removal of the tax all the way back to 1 January and all the efforts that are possible under the old and recently amended rules of the European Union, so that the sum reaches up to 1.6 billion. In addition, Norrland's support increased by SEK 50 million to SEK 461 million – a little more than we hoped and believed in. In total, it is now an aid of SEK 3.2 billion. For all parties working for Sweden's farmers here and now, this type of delivery is in reality what you work and work for, and you are happy when you finally reach and take a big step along the way. But that is not enough. Those of us who support the initiative also want to get the block exemption at European level. Russia's invasion of Ukraine is equated with a natural disaster for the countryside and for Sweden's animal-owners. That is why we need to maximise all the other ways we can relative to the European Union, and the government should do so. I would therefore like once again to thank the Moderates for their good cooperation in continuing to keep up the pressure on these issues for Sweden's farmers. This budget also proposes a temporary reduction from 1 May in the tax on petrol and diesel down to the EU's minimum levels of taxation, which we have also called for – not least in order for many people in the Swedish countryside to cope with the fuel shock. Then we would also like the tax on all biofuels, including those mixed in with diesel and petrol, to be permanently removed for the sake of the climate and the countryside. It is a necessary temporary step. Unfortunately, these are busy, even evil, times for all those who fight in Ukraine, for all those who flee Ukraine, for all those who help the refugees at home with us, for all those who suffer the economic consequences of war, not least for Swedish countryside and our farmers who are so central to healthy and safe food – for our self-sufficiency and our independence in Sweden. I am proud that we, Madam President, together with others, can make a difference to them in this House.
i-K9AmG6bJgjYDL4uHc4DuNh	Madam President, I would like The report before us deals with what, as far as I can judge, is the eighth supplementary amending budget which the government has submitted to Parliament this year, and two more points on which the Committee on Finance is proposing announcements. In the supplementary amending budget, the main issue is a proposal for a temporary reduction in taxation on petrol and diesel down to the EU minimum level. Parliament has pushed for such a reduction. The Left Party agreed with the Moderates on such a proposal to the Finance Committee. As I have said before in this speaker's chair, we have been prepared in the past to take initiatives and, if necessary, to make arrangements in Parliament's committees together with most other parties on specific issues where it is possible to find good solutions and the lowest common denominator. This is such a situation. From the perspective of the Left Party, it is important that the public can take responsibility for societal problems and challenges where individual households and companies have very different conditions to cope with sudden and unexpected events that they have been unable to influence. Strong and rapid increases in the price of fuel, including as a result of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, constitute such a situation. It is something that strikes very different depending on who has the ability to quickly change their usage pattern, and it is very different what its consequences are and what the conditions are for dealing with those consequences in a reasonable way. Families who depend on the car have major financial problems when prices run. For many businesses, costs are high, and there is a risk of job losses. The Left Party believes that taxation on fuels is an important instrument of climate change change and will continue to be so. However, it is not a reasonable view that the price of petrol and diesel should be as high as possible as quickly as possible. Instead, a balance always needs to be struck so that we steer away from fossil dependence while public transport and other alternative forms of transport can be expanded, so that people have time to change and so that their economy does not suffer too much from sudden price rises. This can be the case with an effective policy of conversion. It requires systematic and structured work in a number of areas and, at the same time, readiness to act to deal with short-term shocks and setbacks. What we have today is not a debate on the overall direction of economic policy. We had one, for example, when the government's economic spring bill was presented last week. We'll have more of those. I would just like to emphasise that an economic policy that does not focus on climate change cannot be classified as a responsible economic policy. If this policy is to go beyond declarations and individual signalling, it must be aimed at redeploying large parts of our society, making investments that count in hundreds of billions, taking institutional approaches that are much more robust than different types of benchmarking and guilty statements in different contexts. That is the political orientation that we in the Left Party are taking forward our economic policy, and I believe that it is becoming increasingly clear to more and more people that it is necessary to turn the debate on economic policy in such a direction. With regard to the proposal for a temporary reduction in the tax on petrol and diesel included in this amending budget, I note, like the majority of the committee, that this involves dealing with one of the four points included in the Parliament's announcement. There are three further points that are about working towards an exemption in the EU that allows for an extended temporary reduction, to temporarily review the design of the reduction obligation and to come back with a more forward-looking model to deal with price shocks of the kind we have seen now. We expect the government to continue to work there, and that is something we will be monitoring. What I note with some sadness, quite frankly bordering on dismay, is that we could also have had a supplementary announcement in this report calling for additional funds for public transport. For us in the Left, it has been important that the temporary reduction in fuel prices can be complemented by other measures. We were therefore pleased that we were able to agree with the Moderates and Christian Democrats on an initiative for an announcement calling for 2.5 billion in addition to public transport. We know from both the general debate and the warning signals in the regions and from contacts with the parties concerned that there are very large deficits that the regional public transport authorities have had to bear, not least in the wake of the pandemic. Although much of public transport goes on electricity, it is also affected by increases in fuel prices to a slightly different degree in different parts of the country. This means that there are significant risks of increased prices and service in public transport. Then it is particularly regrettable that the Center Party and the Green Party, which initially signalled that they also saw the need for additions to public transport, turned and joined the government and the Swedish Democrats on this issue. Of course, you can change your mind if there is new information or if you get some kind of inner awakening. In this case, however, it has a rather strange effect in the public sphere, where it has appeared to many people that the said parties have agreed that public transport needs more support and supported an initiative in order for that support to be provided. Even in the regions, there have certainly been those who have expected this support to come in this year and who are now experiencing something of disappointment and confusion. It is strange that it has become this way, not least on the part of the Green Party. The arguments put forward are, firstly, that this is the responsibility of the regions and, secondly, that it can stand up to the ordinary budgetary process. It is only to be noted that it is not arguments that stand out very well if it is considered that public transport is important for people's everyday lives and for climate change. It is clear that it is the fundamental responsibility of the regions, but it is also clear that there are a number of areas in which the state has seen it as important, in the extraordinary circumstances of recent years, to provide funds. It is about balances, and I regret the balance that the government, the Centre Party and the Green Party have struck here. To say that the issue should be included in the ordinary budgetary process postpones the treatment until after the elections and ignores the processes that are going on in the regions. Without this signal and these funds from the state, however you twist and reverse it, there is a significant risk of less accessibility in public transport in Sweden, which will also be a new starting point for development in the future. It is simply not a good balance in a situation where the needs are obvious and it has been perfectly possible to provide funds through additional amending budgets to a number of other activities that have been under pressure. I think it is important to say that this says something about the discrepancy between image and pose on the one hand and actual action on these issues on the other, but also about which groups can make their voices best heard through representatives in parliament and government. This makes it all the more important to continue pushing for reforms, both short-term and long-term, which can, on the one hand, provide support to people with small margins when the cost of living increases and, on the other hand, can support a climate change shift based on the differences in resources and opportunities that exist in our society today. Finally, Madam President, I would just like to emphasise that the Left Party is behind the announcements on support for civil society and the proposal for authorisation to enable surplus doses of vaccine against covid-19 to be donated to other states, to the global vaccine procurement mechanism Covax or to other international organisations. It is something that we have called for in the past, and it is good that it can now become the decision of the Riksdag.
i-YHLYKdcqbsk5gaQmF3Vuiu	Madam President, I would like I must say that I was surprised by Mr Ali's speech. It is lavish for a left-wing party to accuse the Green Party of not wanting to give money to public transport. It is the Environmental Party that has pushed forward the urban environment agreements, which means 20 to 30 billion SEK more for Swedish public transport. We are absolutely open to making more progress in the budgetary process, in the amending budget and so on. However, I do understand why Ali Esbati wants to highlight this in the way he does. I believe that he is very ashamed of his own fossil-smelling policy. What Ali Esbati and his party are doing now is joining forces with the blue-brown ones to lower the tax on fossil fuels. In addition, it goes forward and pushes to give money straight over the counter to the oil companies by having a fixed price of petrol and diesel. In practice, this means that money from taxpayers should go directly into the pockets of oil companies. Enough because the Left Party has never given priority to climate policy, but what is particularly remarkable about this is that it is also a distributional disaster. Eight times more money from the tax cut on petrol and diesel goes to the upper class than to those with the least money in their wallets. Reducing taxes on petrol and diesel is a distributive policy disaster. It is the Moderate voters in Djursholm and on Lidingö who get more money, those who take their big, gas-sucking suv into town every day. They're the ones who get more money in their wallets from Ali Esbatis and Left Party politics. So I understand why he wants to mix the cards away and talk about something other than his own fossil-smelling policy.
i-Ww1W8fk7TtPphGwmXNpnvN	Madam President, I would like I note that the word shame was mentioned. Had I had a greater emotional commitment to the environmental party's welfare or relationship with logic, I might have been ashamed on behalf of Lorentz Tovatt. But I'm going back to the point. With regard to the reduction in petrol tax, I devoted a large part of my speech to explaining how we have reasoned. It is a decision which I think is good and which we have been involved in pushing forward. As I explained, people have very different opportunities to cope with the price changes that have resulted from Russia's attacks on Ukraine, among other things. I think it is important that, if we pursue a serious, effective and coherent climate policy, we can make this kind of short-term intervention so that we can also get popular support for a more comprehensive transformation of society, which is absolutely necessary. But the question was why the Green Party stood up as it did to make a very concrete proposal about more money for public transport, which the Green Party thus rejected. You wouldn't give that money right now. Some agreement is mentioned, and I am fully aware that it exists. I am also aware that the Green Party in Stockholm and elsewhere has acted in a highly problematic direction when it comes to public transport. But in this case there was a suggestion on the table. From the Green Party they initially said they were in favour of it, but then they changed their mind. I do not know why, but the overall result is that there is no more money for public transport, as it should be. It is a pity from a climate point of view and from a distribution point of view. This is the responsibility of the Green Party.
i-RijvGjB8ULtZ1YwCLK5DQP	Madam President, I would like When it comes to the concept of shame, Ali Esbati would like to stick to the Green Party a policy that is focused on the individual and that it is the individual's responsibility to change. I think it is very important to say that no individual in this society should feel ashamed of their choices and how to act. Those who should feel ashamed are the politicians who do not give priority to the climate. There I have long seen the Left Party as a somewhat uninspired ally. Climate has not been prioritised, but Sweden's climate policy has not been actively dismantled. But now the ship has simply been turned completely and now belongs to the fossil group, which wants to subsidise fossil fuels and fuel the dependence that Swedes are stuck in. Ali Esbati talks about different possibilities for conversion. But then direct the support efforts to where they are needed! Direct them to the countryside and not to the Moderate voters in Djursholm. I have looked at the distributional policy of the proposals made by Ali Esbati. It's a disaster. Again, I really understand why Ali Esbati does not want to have to talk about this. None of what he talked about in his speech was about the objections to his policy that actually exist, which is that it gives money directly to Putin's war fund. Sweden provides Putin with money that he can spend on weapons. It is this kind of policy that the Left Party is now pursuing. It is dangerous to the climate and to the continuation of the war, and it is a distributional disaster that puts money in the pockets of oil companies and Moderate voters in Djursholm.
i-L4sXeekdeKiLGv2kqqVuzf	Madam President, I would like The only thing I wanted to stick to the Green Party in this case is the position that the Green Party has taken on the issue we are discussing. Nevertheless, I think that is quite reasonable – that we are trying to ask why these positions have taken place. There are other positions that the Green Party has made that are good, such as when we jointly voted for proposals to stop Swedish imports of Russian fossil fuels. That's a good thing. Now the other parties have also caught up, and it is a good process that is going on. You can make different decisions. Some are good and some are bad, and these are the ones we are discussing. However, as far as what is the Left Party's view of climate policy is concerned, I should like to emphasise that our entire economic policy has climate change as a guiding principle. We talked about this when we had discussions about the government's spring bill. We will present our motion shortly. We have presented investment packages and a view on the fiscal framework connected with this, which simply means that we need to shift economic policy on climate change, with climate change as a core and a red thread. This is our concrete policy. These are the proposals that we put on Parliament's table and that are to be dealt with and for the Green Party to relate to, be inspired by and be for or against. That's how politics works. At least that is how we reason: we consider climate change to be absolutely central to economic policy. For the Green Party, I do not really know. I note that these things are often mentioned in words, but right now the Green Party's policy seems to be more focused on various moves to help keep the Green Party in parliament. I have a great deal of sympathy for this. But it does not automatically improve climate policy.
i-FEv1ei2qQhrCtCQoWRpdjC	Madam President, I would like The proposals of the Committee on Finance, which are now on the table of Parliament, also take their starting point in the terrible war crimes that Putin is now committing against Ukraine – the abuses and crimes against humanity that are taking place, which are destroying the lives of tens of millions of people and which affect us all in Europe. We must act with full force against this from the Swedish parliament in the ways we can, in order to take responsibility for trying to do what we can to strengthen resilience in Ukraine and receive people on the run but also to strengthen Swedish society against Putin's aggressions. Madam President, I would like We have seen thousands of fleeing Ukrainians come to our country. We have been able to see that when the authorities have fallen, civil society has been there. Then people have opened their homes and done what they could to receive people. They have stood outside the Migration Board in the endlessly long queues and kept people warm and made sure that they have been able to get something in their stomach and few things that they have lacked in place in their new existence. This does civil society despite coming out of a pandemic, which has been very worrying. We have seen that many associations now use emergency funds to cope with the work they want to do: continue to extend a hand to those who need it. You put the regular business aside and use your volunteers and staff to do this, even though your own business may be a little too far away. This is not a sustainable situation. Then we must step forward from the public and support those who support and say: Do this long-term! We are prepared to support, not afterwards, but also by making a promise that you will receive support if you continue with your important work. This is the background to the Swedish Parliament's decision today that the government should propose further support for civil society – for sports movement, religious communities, churches, aid organisations, Scouts and all those who are now doing their utmost to welcome people into Sweden. In particular, I would like to thank Mats Persson for working together to develop this initiative, which has led to this result today: that the Parliament now addresses this demand to the government. I would also like to thank the parties, all but one, who support this. Madam President, I would like I will continue on this track a little further. In recent weeks I have seen so many pictures of children on wrestling mats, in ice halls, in Swedish homes, in churches and communities and around campfires in Scouts, who have had a little bit of normality in the terrible life they have been forced into fleeing to Sweden. I feel a deep gratitude to all those who make these efforts, and I want us Swedish politicians and the Swedish public life to do exactly everything we can to support these efforts. Madam President, I would like We are also debating the situation that Swedish farmers have today and the quadruple death that affected Swedish agriculture already before the war and that has been accentuated in connection with Putin's invasion of Ukraine. Not least, the Swedish livestock farmers have been thinking about what to do with their herds. One wonders whether it will be able to cope with spring use with the high diesel and energy prices that currently prevail. Here, too, I am pleased that the committee has been able to act vigorously. Special thanks to Martin Ådahl and Edward Riedl, who have worked hard on this! The rest of us have been able to support the work of ensuring that there will now be increased support, and more should come to secure the farmers' opportunity to continue their important work, which means so much to Sweden, both for a living countryside and for us to have food on the table. Swedish food security is under threat at this point. Then we need to do more than we do at the moment to support the Swedish farmers, not least the livestock farmers. Madam President, I would like We also decide to lift some of the burden from Swedish households, especially from those who depend on the car. We need to change Swedish society – there is no doubt about this – but it is not done through a few months of shock therapy with massively increased fuel prices for those who could not afford to buy an electric car in a market where you can also wait months or years to get ahold of it. This is not how a transition works if it is to be sustainable for people. That is why we have now pushed for reductions of 1.80 from 1 May on the part of Parliament. That is very good, but more needs to be done. There are more demands from the Riksdag that the government must heed. It is a question of trying to reduce tax levels further. Not least, it is also about reviewing the reduction obligation, so that we can further reduce the price at the pump, to lift a burden from Swedish households in this tough situation. We need households that can get to work and to practice and that can cope with the situation in a reasonable and good way. This is a good first step, but more needs to be done. Madam President, I would like Nor can I fail to note that, on two of the points on which we are now deciding – points on which the government has either made proposals or says it will make proposals – from the outset it said that it was impossible. It was impossible to bring about a tax relief by 1 May. It didn't work. That's what we got. We have also received information from the government – I myself received it in this House as late as the end of March – that it was impossible to make the reduction in the diesel tax for agriculture retroactively, so that farmers could start spring farming. It didn't work. It's not something we do in Sweden, I was told. But when Parliament demanded this, it proved possible both to get the tax relief in place by 1 May and to make the tax reduction retroactive for agriculture, which means so much for spring use and food production. Madam President, this does not strengthen the credibility of the government, to put it mildly. We are in a situation with very big challenges for Europe and also for Swedish households and Swedish food production to cope with a life that is tolerable. This calls for further efforts. We Christian Democrats expect the government to deliver further support for agriculture and to bring down fuel prices further, so that the hauliers can manage their business so that we can bring food to the grocery stores and that people can manage their lives and lives in a reasonable and good way. Madam President, I would like We will continue to do everything we can, and we will do more to support Ukraine in the difficult situation in which it is in. Those Ukrainians who have fled to Sweden will also have our full support.
i-K2jdt3iX1ziBLwLBR9JHGU	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! Vladimir Putin's terrible invasion of Ukraine affects us all in our daily lives. It's a crime against what we believe in. What Russia is doing is a crime against humanity and decency. A lot of people in Sweden are now making incredible efforts to help the many Ukrainian refugees who have come to Sweden. It is a fantastic commitment we see, where people open their apartment or their house to the people who come to our country and give them a sanctuary when there is war in Europe and in our neighbourhood. Many thanks to you for your efforts! Equally important are the efforts that Sports Sweden and various types of associations make to ensure that those who now come to Sweden get a good reception and are not met with isolation and loneliness without being able to fill their everyday lives with other things than thinking about the terrible war that is going on in Europe. It's about finding some kind of everyday life, where you can play football in the football club, join the chess club or perform other efforts. It's about finding some kind of everyday life even though it's not a everyday life. That is why the Liberals, together with the Christian Democrats, have taken a committee initiative that the Riksdag will now decide on, which means that the government must spend more money on civil society for the fantastic efforts that are taking place, so that more efforts can be made for those who are now coming to Sweden. It is important for the associations, but it is important above all for all the refugees who come to Sweden and need a daily life to work. Madam President, I would like The indirect effects of Putin's invasion of Ukraine are felt every time you think of a gas station. It is now completely crazy prices that meet us consumers. For those who are totally dependent on the car and are not able to get an electric car, either because there are no electric cars to buy or because they do not have the financial means to do so, prices are brutal. They affect people's everyday lives in an extremely negative way. That is why it is important for the policy to act. It is important that we now act in the Riksdag to ensure that the price at the pump is lower, so that people's everyday lives can work better and so that those who have no alternative to the car can get to work and football practice and make their everyday lives work. This is a first step, but it is far from enough. We need to do more than what is now on Parliament's table to ensure that people's everyday lives can work and that the price at pump is lower. This is a first step, but we need to do much more to bring about change. There is a majority in parliament that wants this, against the will of the Social Democrats. Madam President, I would like Sweden's agriculture and Sweden's farmers have a terrible situation. I live in Skåne myself. A few miles south of where I live, one of Sweden's largest pig production facilities will be closed down. Along the southern coast of Skåne, in the eastern parts and up towards Halland, Blekinge and other parts of southern Sweden we now see the brutal effects of the high diesel and electricity prices and the changed world market prices affecting the farmers. Parliament must act. We are now sending a clear signal to the government to act. The press release that came five for twelve yesterday would not have come if a majority in Parliament had not told the government what we think and that we will legislate if the government does not act. Madam President, I would like What we are deciding today shows that we have an extremely weak government in Sweden. We have a segregated society, which is evident not only in the gap between those born in Sweden and those born in another country, but also in the gap between those living in the city and those living in the countryside. We have a segregated Sweden, and we have a very weak government that is unable to deliver the policy that Sweden needs. It is therefore very good that the Riksdag is now acting and running the government ahead of it, but it is bad for Sweden and the Swedish people that we have a weak government. It is also, I think, very typical and illustrating for the debate that there is nothing that makes a social democrat in this debate as angry as when the opposition acts and takes our responsibility and runs our policy in Parliament. I've never seen a social democrat as angry as he did then. I would have liked that anger instead to be directed at the social problems we have in Sweden and to solve people's everyday lives. It would have been much more dressable and significantly better for Sweden. Having said that, I am in favour of the committee's proposal in the report, in which Parliament shows that we want more than the Socialist Government wants.
i-6QpocFGpSDLBZG4b8iDqnc	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that the Center Party supports the committee's proposal as a whole, if Martin Ådahl was not quite clear about it. There are quite a few pieces in this extraordinary amending budget, and I would like to comment on the parts relating to a strengthened Swedish food readiness. But I, like everyone else, must take the starting point in Ukraine. The war is rolling. I have friends there and I get terrible reports every day. This is going to affect us for a very, very long time. However, there is one positive side that affects what we are discussing now, and that is that it is estimated today that 70% of spring use will be managed in Ukraine. This means that we may have a little less impact on the cereals sector, for example, which is very good. The whole focus of the Center Party is to make a difference in reality, not least for the peasants, that is to say find arrangements that give money directly into the wallet. We are therefore very proud and pleased that we have succeeded first with support package 1 and now with a second package together with the government and many other parties that have fought for this. That is, in fact, absolutely necessary at this point in time. I myself am an old farmer, and I know that the anxiety among the peasants has probably never been greater than right now. There is a greater concern today than it was in 2018. This is largely due to the post-crisis crisis, which means that the money is in practice out of the account. You can see the effect very clearly. For example, fertiliser prices have gone from the normal situation of SEK 2.50 to SEK 3 per kilo to up to SEK 12 per kilo, i.e. a quadrupling of the price. This causes all calculations to fail. The biggest effect of the war is that feed prices have risen. The cereal price, which is totally governing because if we can have animal production, is now over $1 (U.S.). This means that all old calculations for all animal production fall. This is very far-reaching, and that is why we, together with the Moderates, have supported what I would call a peasant package 3, namely to demand a block exemption in the European Union in order to move forward. I know it is not an easy road, but it is a very reasonable way to walk, given that the war situation actually makes this much worse than a drought situation. In the long term, the Center Party wants to move on to reclassifying agriculture from today's classification as an environmentally dangerous activity to a socially beneficial activity – for this does not last. We also see very clearly another thing that needs to happen, outside and partly outside political influence. For example, when an animal farmer today has to have 1 crown more per kilogram for the meat, this means a price change of 5 crowns for the consumer. 20% of the price increase made to consumers ends up in the farmer's pocket, while 80% end up in commerce. The percentage switch depends on the old rule of thumb, but there is like no rhyme and reason in it. We can't go on like this. Although it is not more goods to be transported, trade takes 80% of the price increase. That's completely unreasonable. With this, we in the Center Party are very proud and satisfied with the support packages 1 and 2 that have landed, and we will continue to fight on that line.
i-16j3ChfPbTaCQPBmUwS7mh	Madam President, I would like Honour-related violence and repression is a serious social problem that violates and restricts the fundamental rights and freedoms of girls and young women, but also of young men and LGBT people. Honour-related violence and repression constitute totally unacceptable violations of human rights and the rights of the child. It limits young people's lives, quite simply, and that, as I said, is totally unacceptable. We must see, dare to see, act and counteract every aspect of this oppression, whether it is an active repression or passive repression. An estimated 100 000 young people in our country live with everything from restrictions on choice of clothing and career choices to exposure to genital mutilation, forced marriage and highly honour killings. To decide for yourself who you want to live with and in what way you want to live your life should be a self-evident right for everyone. Preventing and combating honour-related violence and repression is a priority for us Social Democrats. Several of the 99 measures in the Government's action programme to prevent and combat men's violence against women focus particularly on this particular issue. We have implemented criminal law measures to strengthen the protection of those exposed to honour-related violence and repression. Several authorities have also received assignments aimed at strengthening competence in various ways regarding and preventing and combating honour-related violence and repression. We have also introduced a special penalty base so that all crimes committed with honorary motives will be punished more severely than crimes that have not been committed with honorary motives. This is because the victims in these cases are in a more vulnerable situation, and they may have the whole family against them. The Government has also decided on new curriculum texts to strengthen teaching in sexuality, consent and relationships. The new writings represent a clear responsibility for the school to ensure that all students learn about honour-related violence and oppression. The school will also combat, prevent and respond to honour-related violence and oppression with knowledge and active efforts. But this has not been enough, and as long as people are subjected to this violence and oppression, we must continue our fight against it. Madam President, I would like In 2020, we decided in this House on a new crime – child marriage crime. This means that it is now punishable to induce or allow a child to enter into a marriage or marriagelike relationship. One of the most important measures to prevent children from being subjected to child marriage or genital mutilation abroad is to prevent the child from leaving Sweden, and we in Parliament have also decided on an exit ban aimed at protecting children from being taken abroad for marriage or genital mutilation. The Bill A special crime for honour repression, which we now have on Parliament's table, is another measure to combat honor-related violence and oppression. The proposal introduces a new criminal offence in the Criminal Code with the designation of "honorable repression". This crime involves introducing a special, stricter scale of penalties for those who repeatedly commit criminal acts with an honorary motive. Madam President, I would like I am in favour of reservation 4, which is about limitation, not because we really think differently, but because there is already an investigation that has been presented and because a proposal will shortly be on the table of Parliament. The limitation investigation notes that the majority of sexual offences against children are already covered by extended limitation periods since the time for these offences is counted from the victim's 18th birthday. In the case of an alternative proposal to extend the limitation period for offences that may be included in a gross restriction of peace against children, the time shall also be counted from the time when the victim, the child, turns 18. Madam President, I would like In November, we debated increased penalties for violence in close relationships. Last week it was about Internet-related sexual abuse of children. Today it is about honour-related violence and oppression. The common feature of these three debates is that children are victims. Children and young people in Sweden will grow up in safe conditions in freedom from violence and oppression.
i-3evmQEguoZwF1NWA4pMcHn	Madam President, I would like Although former Socialist party leader Stefan Löfven has said that the Social Democrats should be the leading force for the work against honour violence, the proposal now presented has been delayed for two years. The investigation was completed already in 2020, but it is only now that the government is putting forward strong proposals on the table of the Riksdag. And it is welcomed in itself. For a long time, the Moderates have been pushing for honour crimes to become their own crime rubrication in order for the law to reflect the reality that many people in Sweden today live in, where family and family are prepared to commit criminal acts against a victim, often a woman, to reclaim what they imagine is the family's honor. As early as 2018, the Swedish parliament announced to the government that it should make honour crimes its own crime classification. For those of us who work within these four walls, 2018 is until today only one term of office. But for those women who live under honorary oppression, four years is a long time. To point out the government's slowness is not about picking political points. It is about the Social Democratic Government not running a policy with enough force and energy to ensure that all the inhabitants and citizens of Sweden are safe. Madam President, I would like Sweden is one of the world's most equal countries. But Swedish gender equality does not benefit all Swedish women. Unfortunately, the problems often vary depending on whether you live in Lomma or Rosengård, for example. And the Moderates do not accept that there is an A-team and a B-team when it comes to equality. Everyone shall enjoy the same rights and opportunities, regardless of culture or country of birth. In Sweden Swedish laws, norms and values apply. You obey the police, you get a job, and you let your daughter dress as she pleases. And if the son comes home with a boyfriend, you hug them; you don't throw them out. That's how we build a strong society together. To ensure this, better regulation is needed. The bill is a proposal and a step along the way. But it remains to implement more proposals that improve the situation of honoured in Sweden. Madam President, I would like For a long time, the Moderates have had a large package of measures against honour-related crime. In addition to the proposals now presented in the bill, the Moderates want the following: Innocent controls are to be criminalised. We want it to be forbidden to carry out a check of innocence on anyone under the age of 18, regardless of whether the person subject to the check is not explicitly opposed to it. In any case, when someone under the age of 18 undergoes a virginity check, we believe that both the person carrying out the check, such as a doctor, and the person taking the initiative to carry out the check, such as a parent or a relative, should be able to be convicted of the crimes. We want moral police to be banned. It shall be criminal to induce someone to follow instructions aimed at upholding the honour of a particular person or group by force or undue pressure. It should not happen that in parts of Sweden there is lawlessness, that the rule of law is on the retreat and that there are also self-appointed moral policemen to control how people behave. We want to increase knowledge of honour-related violence by introducing specialised police and prosecutors to support the handling of honour crimes. We want notifications to guardians when a child has been questioned to be postponed or totally avoided if that is what matters. We also want in some cases to be able to hold interviews with children under the age of 15 even without the consent of the guardians. Finally, we also want to introduce criminal liability for guardians of genital mutilation. Genital mutilation does not belong in Sweden or anywhere else in the world. Madam President, I would like In addition to these proposals that I have just gone through, the Moderates want foreign citizens who commit crimes with a criminal value at prison to be expelled. It is a policy for women's and men's equal rights in Sweden. Hopefully, such a proposal may also appear preventive. The Moderates take this type of crime very seriously. Highlighting the problems of culture of honour has been associated for several years in the public debate with being called racist and xenophobic and accused of fishing in cloudy waters. For fear of pointing out certain groups, it has been made to compromise the rights of the vulnerable. For this situation, the left parties in particular have a special responsibility. All persons in Sweden have the right to their fundamental rights, regardless of their origin or religious or cultural affiliation. The fact that many of those who are victims of crimes with honorary motives have a foreign background must not affect our approach and our willingness to do anything about this type of crime. Fear of denouncing certain groups must not lead us to waive the rights of the honoured. This has not always been the case when it comes to honour-related crime. But hopefully that time is over in Swedish debate, so that all forces can focus on protecting these individuals. Here the Moderates have shown the way, and we want to continue to do so – most recently in a government later this autumn. Madam President, I would like Honorable crime is crime that is often committed by a family or a family, that is, by several people who are involved in controlling what the woman is wearing, what she says and who she hangs out with. There are therefore several people who can be, and often are, perpetrators. Together, they form a criminal collective that plagues the lives of a woman. The Moderates want this to be directly reflected by the law and that it is stated directly in the legal text that the gang of perpetrators is more than one person. That is why we have reserved for this. The Moderates are obviously behind all their reservations, but for time winning I only agree to reservation 5.
i-8FF36qCQhpgZbjtZ1jBsW5	Madam President, I would like The government has finally come up with a bill containing a special crime for the repression of honour. It proposes the introduction of a new offence in the Code of Criminal Procedure with the designation of "honorable repression". As a consequence of decades of irresponsible migration policy combined with a demandless and lax integration policy, honorary repression has established itself as a serious social problem in Sweden. The Swedish democrats have warned against this development. Unfortunately, however, action did not exist until the phenomenon has become an established fact. Violence, threats and oppression in the name of so-called honour are evident in most of the cultures from which we in Sweden have received large numbers of people without making demands for adaptation to our culture. The repression as such may consist of already criminal acts, such as assault and threats of violence, but it may also involve more severe criminal acts, such as implied threats or more systematic harassment. Since these acts are often carried out by close relatives of the victim and are carried out by mutual agreement within the family and family or among other perpetrators, it has been difficult for these victims to obtain redress. The Government's proposal is therefore a step in the right direction – although it should be pointed out that it is the result of Parliament's work in this area. We have been dragging the government behind us, for example through announcements. Since before, we have been given a special penalty base, and now the government is proposing a new penalty which punishes repeated honour-related violence and repression against persons. This is good, but the Swedish Democrats find that there is room for improvement. Honourable oppression, as I said, often occurs in a collective of people where some may be more pro-motivated and stand for hatred and threats while others, through their passivity, allow it to happen. They may even actively enable oppression by, for example, keeping an eye on the victim for someone else in the family or communicating information to the actual perpetrators. The government has dealt with the issue of their responsibility by advocating that it is sufficient for a participating person to have an attitude of indifference while the offender has qualified intent. In other words, the proposal does not propose the introduction of special rules for participation in the penalty clause on the repression of honour. This we believe may need to be corrected afterwards, when we know how the purpose assessment has been carried out in the courts and if the purpose of the proposal is fully achieved. We therefore believe that the government needs to follow up on how well involved are being prosecuted in order to possibly supplement the law with special provisions for participation in the future. According to us, the Government will therefore commission the Crime Prevention Council to review the implementation and effectiveness of the proposed law. In addition, we see a need for a review of the notification obligation. There is already a notification requirement for healthcare and school professionals and others who come into contact with children and young people. These notifications are submitted to the Social Welfare Board, which then opens a case and may carry out an investigation. However, whether these are adequately investigated or reported to the police is somewhat unclear, why in our follow-up motion to the bill and subsequently in one of our reservations we propose a review of that very thing. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats also believe that it is morally difficult to stand free from guilt in a family where honorary oppression is practised even if you do not actively participate in it yourself. Therefore, there is reason to consider strict liability for a certain circle of related parties. As in the case of child marriage offences, where parents or other persons controlling the child can be held liable if they allow the child marriage to take place, persons in a family member's group with control over the child should also not be able to stand without responsibility if they passively allowed honorary pressure to be exercised by others. Such a regime needs to be carefully investigated as to which relatives should be held responsible for the repression and what kind of inaction should be considered to be reprehensible for criminal liability. In the light of these considerations, I would like to endorse reservation 6 on strict liability for relatives.
i-47pgMz3NU7tddieQWAWkwY	Madam President, I would like It has now been a few years since I saw some perfectly heartbreaking images on a screen in a courtroom, but when I pull out the memory images they are extremely clear. Because they've been etched in my memory. The 11-year-old boy sits in an armchair in a children's room with the police. He is thin and small to the plant and almost disappears into the armchair he sits in when he curls up. He is there to tell about what he witnessed just a few days ago when he was at home with his family with his three younger siblings and parents. He's told me about how my dad picked up a knife in the kitchen and started stabbing it against my mom. But that knife's too slow, so Dad's picking up another knife. Mom runs out into the hallway, but she stumbles on the carpet and falls to the floor. Dad comes after her and keeps stabbing her as she lies down on the hall floor. The 11-year-old boy is desperate and trying to stop Dad. He says in the police hearing that I'm looking at in that courtroom, I tried to take the knife, but I was too weak. That's said by an 11-year-old boy. He's trying to stop his dad, but he can't. Dad chops my mom to death on the hall floor, and then he stomps her in the face. When the police get to the scene, arrest the father and take him with him, the father says to his son, "Now you can live proudly." ..................................................... Madam President, I would like Honor-related violence and oppression mean that people, mainly girls and women, are limited in their lives. They are subjected to pressure and violence in order to maintain family control over them. Honor-related violence and oppression are linked to honorary standards based on strong patriarchal notions. Mainly girls and women are limited in their everyday lives in terms of what they wear, who they hang out with, what education they get to attend and who they're going to marry. For those who defy this control, things can get bad – really, really bad. The woman who met her death on that hall floor in an extended course, before the eyes of her four children, had tried to leave her husband. She'd been living in a sheltered home for some time. She had started hanging out with another man. For some reason, though, she came back to the family, but she had already damaged the family's honor. The man said several times that she would die, and she told the people she trusted that she was afraid. But she didn't want to leave the children. Madam President, I would like Honorary standards do not belong in our society. No, standards of honor actually go completely against the society that we want, where all individuals have equal value and where the individual is free to choose dress, choose associations, choose education and choose who you love and want to share his life with. Honor-related crime is totally unacceptable, and it is extremely important that we show this clearly. It is therefore very welcome that we are now introducing a special crime for those who violate in the name of honour: the crime of honour repression. By legislating on this, we show what standards our society is based on – and that it is not the honour of the family and the family. My hope is that this new legislation will help to ensure that the victim has a lower threshold for reporting crimes – that the victim, with support from his/her environment, can take courage and report. But for us to be able to help detect crime and support the victim, knowledge of this type of crime is needed in many parts of society. This knowledge is needed and is central for us to be able to properly collect evidence and finally prosecute the perpetrator. Madam President, I would like We in the Center Party want the crime of honour to include controlling behaviour. When it comes to violence and other violations in close relationships, physical violence rarely begins. Often it starts with just control of the person, who may not be allowed to go out on his own, hang out with his friends, wear some clothing, or use his mobile phone or social media without being monitored. The violations are normalizing, and the psychological resistance of the victim is ground down. Criminalising such acts can help stop the violations in time before they have gone too far. That is why I would like to support Amendment No 7. Of course, it is not possible to say whether such a criminalization of controlling behaviour had prevented the event that led to the woman's death on that hall floor. It was the mother of the 11-year-old boy who, together with his three younger siblings, was effectively orphaned that night. For his father was sentenced by me and my fellow judges at that hearing to the most severe punishment of the law. We found it proven that the crime had been committed in the name of honor.
i-4y5qXTWBoZUq8aQPfVFWDn	Madam President, I would like The Left Party takes violence, including honour-related violence and repression, very seriously. Personally, since the late 70s, both in my professional life and as a volunteer, I have come close to women and children who have been subjected to men's violence. In 1996, for the first time, I came in cruel contact with violence in the name of honor. Then a teenage girl, Sara, was murdered in Umeå. This was the first contact for me with violence in the name of honour. This means that I have experience of meeting both violence in the Swedish context and violence in the name of honour. Both categories have continued. I have seen differences, and I also see similarities. Violence is the common thing. Both are about power and control over women's lives and sexuality. I think it is very important that we do not continue to talk about big differences between us and them but see that there are more degree differences than species differences. Both are very serious and obviously need to be handled based on their context and context. Above all, we must act much more sharply in creating protective measures when it comes to violence in the name of so-called honour. Legislation needs to deal with these issues and has tried to do so over time. Now we would like to build on an alternative bill that has been produced and launched by Svea Court of Appeal. It broadens the concept and captures not only honour but also goes wider on collective normative coercion. It is also important to focus particularly on the meaning of the crime for the victim. Such were also the thoughts of the 1990s when we launched the extremely important and groundbreaking violations of peace. Several consultation bodies have been critical of the investigation's proposal and what is now the government's proposal. The Falun District Court indicates that this touches the limit of what can be considered discriminatory. Umeå District Court agrees and says that it is clear that ethnic Swedes are not covered and that there is a risk that the application will be discriminatory and contrary to the form of government. It will revolve around honor, but we do not capture crime into criminal networks, sects or other small communities that are highly prescriptive and patriarchal. We in the Left Party therefore want to build on the criticism that has come, which we feel is very keen to deal with. We want to build on the Court of Appeal's proposal to criminalise the imposition of a certain cultural or religious way of life. We also want to add that coercion should not be accepted on the basis of similar normative lifestyles. This includes, of course, violence or oppression in the name of honour but also other normative coercion, for example in Swedish more religious communities, criminal gangs, as I mentioned, or other sects with strong normative notions. So, says the Left Party, we would seriously live up to Fadimes's words here in Parliament – in another chamber, but still in the Riksdag – as so many quote. She felt that it should be a matter of course that, especially as a woman or a girl, regardless of cultural background, you should be able to choose the life you wish for yourself. This is also well in line with the Istanbul Convention. We usually say that we should care about conventions. We should do so also in Sweden and not only when we comment on the laws or practices of other countries. In the Convention, legal expertise chose to refrain from formulating a crime based on honorary motives. They firmly felt that it was not possible to do so legally. Instead, the Convention chose wordings and markings that crimes in the name of so-called honour should not be justified. This should be self-evident. Having said that, Madam President, I would like to endorse reservation 8. I would also like to say that we want to build a serious understanding of violence based on the victims' experiences of violence and repression and to mark the responsibilities of the perpetrator. We want to see the violence in its context, and we would very much have liked to have seen Delmos, the Delegation against segregation, continue the mission they were given a while ago to examine the importance of socio-economic segregation in how honor standards arise, amplify and work when it comes to honor-related violence and repression. That mission was interrupted, and instead, Delmos is going to dismantle himself. Finally, I would like to say that the Left Party has been acting for a long time to criminalise controlling behaviour. It is gratifying that the government has an investigation into criminalising this. I would like to remind you how tough and slow it can be many times to get the power to act against the violence and oppression against women. This proposal was already launched in 1995 in the Convention on Violence against Women. I hope that this will also happen.
i-RNbHMZLMWBEH9L6tpbpUgX	Mr President, I would like to Gudrun Nordborg mentioned in his speech that we should not talk about us and judgment, that there are similarities between violence that is practiced in the name of honour and men's violence against women as we see it in Sweden in a Swedish context and that there are differences in degrees. This rhetoric has an undertone that it would be racist and xenophobic and a way of fishing in cloudy waters to point out and particularly highlight the violence committed in the name of honour. It is counterproductive to insinuate that such commitment and identification would lead to a we and judgment. There's a difference between the violence. There is a difference between, on the one hand, a whole family or family and even friends are engaged in controlling, reporting and monitoring what a woman is doing and wearing and, on the other hand, a man beats a woman. We don't have to grade it. We don't have to tell you what's worse. But there's a difference. To deny that difference and instead make it a graduation I think is absolutely the wrong way to go. That's what we've been testing. That is what lies behind, among other things, the fact that we do not already have legislation against honour violence and honour problems. They have been afraid of being perceived as racist or xenophobic. I find it very strange to continue with this rhetoric on the part of the Left Party and, furthermore, to want the whole bill on an honorary crime to be rejected.
i-EgaGGqYp5fKQiQ6A5wb7ab	Mr President, I would like to I can understand Louise Meijer's questions, but I think she is making a huge over-interpretation. We're talking about there being risks of discrimination. It is not only the Left Party that has claimed this. I have just referred to a series of legal bodies that have highlighted the same concerns about this criminal structure. I could build on many non-profit organisations that have also come close to this problem. When it comes to whether there are species or degree differences, it can be a game of words. I am well aware that there are differences and that there is a risk of being a much greater threat when it comes to violence in the name of so-called honour. But I also have experience of purely Swedish examples where a woman or a child has been exposed and got the whole family against them. Everyone stands up to a perhaps well-established man's defense and does not want to believe in stories that come out. It will be impossible to achieve success in a legal arena. The Swedish woman becomes isolated and has to choose another life, like what comes after violence in the name of honour. In both cases, the risk of fatal outcome is high. Unfortunately, we have far too many cases that end with violence going so far as to be fatal.
i-GLx8Cqys5ffBTfd7jbbQpS	Mr President, I would like to I fully understand the outrage that Gudrun Nordborg feels about how a woman can be subjected to a family's stand against her and her children. I myself have been legal counsel in many divorce proceedings and know how terrible it can be for those involved. But mixing these is like mixing apples and pears. It has been a disservice to the Swedish debate in recent decades. There, in particular, left-wing feminists have a special responsibility. This has not been mentioned because of a fear that it would be racist, xenophobic and discriminatory and that it would be fishing in cloudy waters. This kind of argument has been used not to raise this problem, which we see in many ways in our Swedish suburbs. This is wrong. When Gudrun Nordborg presents her rhetoric in the speaker's chair, she also refers to a speech that Fadime gave here in Parliament. But perhaps she showed better than anyone else that there was a difference – and is the difference – between that violence and other violence. I believe that, against this background, it is not reasonable to continue the discourse and the narrative that this would be discriminatory and that it is an extension of another type of violence, but rather to see what it is. This is a cultural phenomenon which we have not seen here in Sweden for a long time and which we must fight with all our might. There must be an end to cultural relativism in Sweden. There must be an end to the postmodern approach.
i-LbVgg2MXArYTwY2gbAxKhL	Mr President, I would like to I thank Louise Meijer for her commitment. I understand that and I can share it. But we do not have the same starting points. I believe that we must interpret Mr Fadimes's words so that the protection that we want to give in the legislation should apply to everyone. If there is something culturally prescriptive and collective that is expressed against a person, we shall give protection. We'll do it if it's about violence in the name of honor. But we will also do so if it is about other cultural groups or sub-groups, including criminal gangs and religious sects. We're not stopping. We must see the honour-related violence as an expression of something collective that does not only exist in immigrant groups. We need to see what's the same. It's about apples and pears, says Louise Meijer. Why don't we like fruit? But we don't have to be blind enough to look at one thing at a time. We have in a Swedish context violence that we have to deal with and which is serious. We have violence in the name of honour which must also be dealt with and which is cruelly serious. I fully acknowledge that. We must have skills to see both similarities and differences in these structures and how they develop and need to be managed in different ways. That's where I think we're in full agreement. But let us not forget that there are other situations that are relatively similar to what we now stamp as violence in the name of honour. We must be able to deal with the whole panorama of violence with legislation, competences, various social measures and, not least, socio-economic efforts to limit the gaps and distances we unfortunately have in Swedish society today.
i-PsQDCUGgEJ7Y2r3eFEuGXE	Mr President, I would like to Finally! At last, we are standing here today in the Swedish Parliament and will decide to introduce a special offence of honour, several years after the Riksdag first demanded it and decades after the very serious problem of the culture of honor has become apparent in Sweden. Unfortunately, this is another example of the government dragging its feet far too long and delaying important legislation. The culture of honour that has emerged, and in which women, in particular, have their lives limited by fundamentalists, is in no way compatible with a free and democratic society. Women who are held back and controlled in the name of honour will not be able to live out their full potential. Therefore, honour crimes hamper a good community and ultimately good social development. Above all, this is a violation of women's self-evident rights that must be defended. This can never be accepted in Swedish society. But we are all too often reminded that it is a reality in our country. Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Malin Björk for the painful description earlier in the debate on such a case. This must be fought every day, all the time, because the oppression of honour is ongoing. These are not individual events, but ongoing repression, the obstruction of human freedom and, unfortunately, constant violence. Today we are taking an important step towards implementing Parliament's will on this issue, despite the urgent opposition and seductiveness of the government and several parties in this House. The government is missing an important part, and we are therefore proposing a new announcement on limitation periods. Several consultation bodies object to the Government's assessment that general rules on limitation should apply, i.e. that the limitation period should be counted from the day the crime was committed. Like several consultation bodies, we think that we should do as in certain sexual offences, so start counting the limitation period from the age of 18. It is not reasonable for a child who has been oppressed and is under the control of his parents, siblings and other relatives to file a police report of honour repression on the day the crime has been committed and that these serious crimes risk being time-barred if the child does not do so. It is the will of the Committee on Justice that there must be a change in this, and that is, of course, what we support and will decide later today. The Christian Democrats are in two reservations to which approval has been sought in the past, reservations 5 and 7. The first is about expanding the gang of perpetrators, because here we do not have a single perpetrator, but siblings, family and friends. We have to look at it that way, and that is why reservation 5 is important. We also support reservation 7. As has been the case in the past, it does not start with violence and repression, but with controlling behaviour. In order to tackle the oppression of honour and tear it up with the roots of our country, we must also criminalise the controlling behaviour. Mr President, I would like to I request the approval of reservation 5.
i-DLo4T5DTMUKpoPnfZt32Js	Mr President, I would like to I realise that I and Mr Gudrun Nordborg of the Left Party both have concerns but for completely different things. I feel a deep concern that it is ours and that there are children in different classrooms around Sweden with a lump in the stomach. The child may have had a relationship or the family suspects that the child has had a relationship – something that is completely unthinkable when the control of innocence is central to the culture of honor. You have heard the phone go hot and have noticed that something is going on. You don't feel safe going to the teacher or student health centre and telling them. For when the cousin did so, the school contacted the family, and instead of protecting the child, the process of taking the child out of the country accelerated. Children are brought to environments where parents have fled after living in a country where all children should have the freedom to shape their lives, own their sexuality, make their life choices and realize their dreams. Around our country there are staff of our authorities who think like Member Gudrun Nordborg. They fear that it will be discriminatory to raise these issues. They are afraid to point out, so instead, children are forced to remain in vulnerability, loneliness, and powerlessness. It worries me. I worry about all the children I met who were genitally grafted in their home country before they came to Sweden and who have difficulty urinating and enormous pain during menstruation and who, in connection with genital mutilation, had to learn to keep quiet about the procedure. That's another way to control the requirement for girls' innocence. I worry that these children suffer alone and have no one asking questions. In some situations, these children seek care. When children break their arm at school, they are driven to the hospital and without a doubt have their arm plastered. However, when children seek care for the consequences of genital mutilation, such as where and blood in the abdomen, they are not given the care they need and are entitled to but are asked to go home and talk to Mom and Dad about it. This is because there is enormous fear in our country of really standing on the side of vulnerable children. There are people who are even worse, reactionary forces who have entered schools, social offices and authorities and are fighting to uphold these standards and values. When we raise these issues, they are quick to point out that it is a racist discourse. In Sweden we are afraid. We stand up for the rights of children, women and LGBT people as long as no one questions these rights. But when they are questioned, we begin to waver and back instead of taking a step forward. For some time, social services have been campaigning against social services, which, to mislead people, says that social services kidnap children. In fact, for a long time many children have tried to communicate their vulnerability without society reacting. There are so many children who should be cared for on the basis that the family requires obedience and control. As soon as these children try to enjoy their fundamental rights and freedoms, they are subjected to systematic violence, are removed from the country, forced into marriage and deprived of their right to life. This worries me. I am concerned that we in Sweden are looking at, assessing and treating children with different standards because we are so afraid to take a stand on the most fundamental issues. I worry that we have an extremely strong parenting family where children need to prove so much before they get taken seriously. We must dare to challenge this parental right and start talking about the obligations and responsibilities of parents. We need to have early action where we clearly define what children are entitled to and what children are to be protected from under our legislation. Children should be informed about their rights, and we should ensure that guardians master the Swedish language so that terrible campaigns do not affect them. They should be able to take in information and know that in Sweden social services are used to protect and support and that this is where you turn if you need help. Social Services don't kidnap kids. I am also concerned that for some time we have had political correctness in our country where we have gone from expressing that there are these different images. That is why I thank Mr Gudrun Nordborg, who once again puts the light on the fact that we are thinking and looking at this differently. But in the meantime we do and in our eagerness to love equally suffering children, and it is terribly wrong. That doesn't mean you have to grade. In health care, you have to find out if a person has a brain tumor or a brain hemorrhage. Both are equally serious but must be treated in different ways in order for the person to regain his or her life and freedom. The same is true of a violent person. I think that the easiest thing we in this House can do is make laws; the hardest thing is to ensure that they are complied with. During this period, we have been given a child marriage crime, the possibility of issuing an exit ban and that honorary motives should be a basis for punishment. Today, we are proposing a crime of honour in which repeated acts that violate the integrity and self-esteem of the individual can give a higher penalty value. But we are not making use of the legislation. That's because there's a lack of knowledge. I want to think well. It must be that the Left Party lacks knowledge and understanding of the context in which the victims live. Otherwise, you wouldn't put it this way. As long as we don't have knowledge and understanding, it doesn't matter what laws we make. We must have the courage to take a stand. It is definitely a question of social security officers having to be supported. When the campaign is going on, we need to see how we can organise and structure it in a different way from national level when social security secretary is in need of it. Local self-government, of course, prevails. My concern is that at the moment there are many children who are suffering and in need of courageous people. My concern is, as Maria Strömkvist said, that missions have gone out to national authorities. That is good, but there too there is a lack of knowledge. It's kind of like developing a medicine for a serious illness. Then you give that assignment to a scientist who has no idea what it's doing. We must realise that the level of knowledge in our country in general is too low. This is particularly true of the level of knowledge of what it actually means. I'll never give up. I'm in on all the changes. I'm glad we've come a step along the way. I agree with our reservations, but I am in favour of reservation 7. It is incredibly important to understand that the reason people end up in a terrible environment is that they want to enjoy their rights. Control wasn't enough. If we are serious about supporting children, the efforts must also begin much earlier.
i-ApePLYjYx8V1sAA7qwrve3	Mr President, I would like to I admire Mr Bloms's commitment. I know you have great expertise, Juno Blom. I have also had the privilege of working with you on projects on these difficult issues. I fully agree with you that the Swedish society lacks competence. Violence is lacking in many places. This also applies to skills that allow you to see that there are different types of violence and different contexts where the violence occurs that you have to tackle in some different ways and sometimes completely different ways. Then I do not think that as a person or as a left-wing partyist I am a typical example of this. These are complex issues that we must push forward. Legislation is an example. There I think it means a great deal how good legislation we manage to deliver. Can it be applied, and will it be good when we apply it? It's our responsibility here and now. I also call for the development of skills to be followed up. That's where I think we're on the same page. It is also important to highlight the children's perspective. It is flawed in many cases for children, and not least when children are involved in violence. You point to the parental power that is very strong in Sweden. Can you point to further examples of things that we should do now, in your opinion, to highlight these issues more strongly?
i-MdFWZ2CY2NKtfki1RijZvo	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Gudrun Nordborg! I think this is how it is: I have realised that politics very much is about that when we can say sharp things it gets attention. The big challenge is the position. The position is based on an understanding of the context in which the vulnerable live. Mr Meijer said that apples and pears should not be mixed. I agree with that. There's an incredible amount of common ground. It is about physical violence, psychological violence, control and power. I believe that the violent woman who gets kicked by her husband in the home is not lying and thinks that it is too well that it is not a collective that is behind it. If we do not understand what differs well enough, the efforts will not be properly met either. I think there's a fear. Like many, I am also concerned that xenophobic forces are kidnapping issues in order to show that certain groups are acting in a special way. We must keep this in mind. But it's not the same thing as that we should for that reason make snow mounds of violence so that no one really understands what to do. You can see what has happened in practice. Last night, for example, I spoke to representatives of a municipality who asked for help. They would pursue these questions. They see the connection between gang crime, honour violence and violent extremism. Then principals answer, don't open Pandora's box. We can't do that. We have such huge problems, and we don't really know how to catch them. If it is the case that children have confidence in the adult world to tell about their vulnerability, they must also feel that the person who receives the information handles it properly. When it comes to honour violence, there are mechanisms that can put children in greater danger if you do not have an understanding of how to deal with it. We must dare to talk about that.
i-77y7t7CmrXpYaixv89eBgG	Mr President, I would like to I fully agree with Mr Juno that we must dare to take a stand and dare to stand on the children's side. There I think a lot of adults get super worried as long as they get close to violence. I also realise that this concern can be even greater if it is about violence in the name of honour. Nevertheless, we must still have the power of violence, try to analyse properly and see what it means in the different contexts. What tools do I have, and what do I need to be extra careful about so that I really protect the child and do not help an perpetrator or multiple perpetrators to continue? I may find it extremely slow when we deal with these issues. We had the women's peace reforms in the late 1990s. There was a lot of investment in education and such. Then it went off. We must constantly train the whole of society. Issues of violence are not included in basic education for the professions facing the problem. This applies whether it is a matter of school, health care, the law or the judicial system. Now we're about to flunk it up a little bit. It's going into basic training. It is also very much asked for the public to know a lot about this. We are too afraid of the violence and to dare to face it in real life. There I fully agree with Mr Juno. We must dare argue. I remain convinced that we should not be based on discriminatory measures. We must also dare to see what many people are very afraid of, the problem in Swedish society from the beginning. It is also building obstacles for us to see the context of honour-related violence.
i-MUv3pPeywser6RS2Z2zQfk	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Gudrun Nordborg! For me, the last thing Mr Nordborg says is completely incomprehensible, that the fear of pointing out would risk discrimination. I want to say that it is discriminatory. I have a daughter who dropped out of law school. If I had brought her to Somalia or Iraq as punishment for not doing what I said, the whole community would react. But these children are not missing. Försäkringskassan produced a report showing that there are 10,000 children who are under school obligation who do not exist in Sweden. It was based on looking at cheating with welfare money. I'm not saying that 10,000 children are in a child marriage. But I am deeply surprised that this report has not been given greater visibility and that it has not been debated. Where are these children, and what are they exposed to? My great concern is that we systematically discriminate against children from other parts of the world because we do not dare to see the vulnerability they have. Children walk around and are sexually grafted and can't pee, and I'm worried that the Left Party doesn't worry about it every day. Because I do-- I panic when I think about the fact that there are children who suffer so terribly in their loneliness. Children are forced into child marriage and are systematically raped on the wedding night and after. I've been involved in errands where a girl cried desperately. She was married as a 16-year-old, and she called for the father because the man couldn't carry out the intercourse, the rape, on the wedding night. The father came and tied the girl up. This was because she had joked and laughed with a classmate at school. This is terrible. This is happening in Sweden, and it is our children and our problem. If we do not see the differences, these children will continue to suffer in their loneliness.
i-2jyuZ5BTXxLgmmBWv61eCE	Mr President, I would like to In 1998, a new crime classification was introduced – gross female reduction. It was an important feminist achievement. The violence that affects women in close relationships often consists of repeated violations. These are crimes that do not always have a high penalty value but which together constitute a serious violation. Lawmakers saw patriarchal patterns behind violence, and laws were passed to tackle this oppression of women. It was the women's movement that pushed the demands for legislation with the new crime rubrication. In 1998, the oppression of honour was not even something that was debated here in the Swedish Parliament. But in recent years the Swedish public has had stormy debates on the issues of honour. There have been, and there are, those who deny oppression. Others have relativized it, and we hear it all the time. Some have said that it only plays racists in the hands to raise the issues of honor. Some others have said that oppression of honour is actually the same as other violence against women and that new laws are therefore not needed; we heard it just now. Some have used honour violence as an excuse for their xenophobia rather than listening to the vulnerable women. But we are many suburban feminists who have pushed and taken the lead in this important feminist and anti-racist struggle. We've taken the fight even when there's been a headwind. Mr President, I would like to It is the government that is putting forward its proposal, but it is courageous women's activists who have made us today in this House have a proposal to debate and support. Today, all of us who have fought will be proud! Mr President, I would like to The new proposal on the crime of honour repression has a similar purpose to the one on gross female defamation. It's about seeing patterns and structures. Honorary oppression is sustained by norms and by a culture. It's not just harassment, petty assault, etcetera. All this crime is part of something greater. Now, at last, we can also get this expressed in legal text. In recent years, the Riksdag has been able to decide on new important tools to combat honour repression. The Criminal Code contains criminal records of forced marriages, misleading marriage trips and child marriage crimes. They're already in the law. Honourable motives now become a special penalty. Society has the possibility of temporarily imposing an exit ban on children if they are threatened with being taken abroad for marriage or genital mutilation. Further important proposals to access so-called virgin surgery and certificates of innocence are being prepared in the Government Office. The struggle for the rights of all women and children leaves a mark on the lawbook's criminal code. After the summerer's government crisis, the January agreement fell. In the run-up to the Prime Minister's vote, I was anxious to have assurances that the government would still be putting forward a proposal for this new offence. I would like to thank Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson for keeping his promise. The suburban feminist organisation that I chair, Neither whore nor hived, has also been the referral body for this bill. It is an important signal that the Riksdag can make decisions in broad agreement on issues relating to society's most vulnerable, those affected by the oppression of honour. It is therefore remarkable – and important for future women's historians to be recorded in Parliament's minutes – that the Left Party once again wants to put a brake on the work against the oppression of honour. In August 2019 the Left Party held a press conference here in the Parliament House that was fully dedicated to taking credit and honour from me. The party secretary explained that if only I was thrown out, the party would appear more clearly against violence of honour than so far. Of course, I had already announced to the media that I would leave the party. So what about the promised clarity? In spring 2020, the Parliament adopted changes to the Social Services Act that made it possible to protect children through a temporary exit ban. Although the chairman of the Left Party at the time had been out in the media saying that it would support the bill, the opposite was done here in Parliament. As the only party, the Left Party reserved itself against reform in the Committee on Justice. Under the new provisions of the Social Services Act, many children have been prevented from being taken out of the country. I don't even want to think about what their lives would have been like if the Left Party had got their way and prevented the bill. Mr President, I would like to Now the party once again wants to stand in the way of the work against honour-related crime. The Left Party of the Riksdag protested against the special offence of honour as early as the previous parliamentary term. It was feared that this would lead to a mere suspicion of people from a particular culture. It is now complained that the bill is not general enough. However, the proposal for a serious violation of women's rights was not a general one either, simply because it focused on the violations that women in particular are subjected to in close relationships. The aim of the proposal for a criminal tribunal for the repression of honour is not to be general. It is aimed at the specific oppression of honour. Once again, Mr President, the Left Party betrays the most vulnerable women and girls with a foreign background. I had only been in Sweden for seven months when on May 1 in Västerås 1993 I became a member of the Left Party. It was a party that I expected to work for Swedish equality to apply to everyone. It would include those of us who have fled war, dictatorship and religious oppression. I met these women when I learned Swedish at Sfi. As a social worker in Stockholm's various vulnerable suburbs, I also received constant alarms about the repression that these girls, women and LGBTQ people were subjected to by family and relatives. It's about being violated, being called unclean and being subjected to constant threats. It's about getting locked up and being constantly monitored by some relative or by a GPS. It is a matter of having to cover and accepting the reproving blows. Mr President, I would like to We call this everyday honour because it is everyday life for hundreds of women and children in Sweden. I meet them every day and every week. I am constantly contacted by honorary people who want to know how to get help from society. It is this day-to-day honour that the new crime rubrication is aimed at. Mr President, I would like to Finally – it will soon be May Day again. The words I heard then are still equally important: solidarity, sisterhood and equality that apply to everyone in Sweden. Most people in Sweden do not have to live with everyday honor. But we all have a responsibility to fight for the rights of the oppressed. I've taken that fight. It has always felt and made sense. Sometimes it's hard. Sometimes it's not easy. But let us make it as simple as pressing a green button and not writing a committee reservation.
i-Umd75KdqhtuwAcZmYtpieN	Mr President, I would like to Member Amineh Kakabaveh! I admire your commitment. I would like to respond to a few points made in the honourable Member's speech. When the decision on the exit ban was taken, I did not sit in the Riksdag, but I have checked the texts. The Left Party wanted to clarify the criteria so that it really knew what it was doing. I think we are all happy now that the exit ban was possible. I myself have experienced that it has had a great effect and has gained decisive importance. That said, maybe we can put that story a little behind us. What we have before us now is the question of whether the Left Party, together with several judicial authorities, has any right to consider that this new crime is at risk of being discriminatory. Mr Kakabaveh compares it to the crime of women's peace, and that is generally true of all women. We can possibly say that the violation of honor becomes general for everything that happens in the name of honor. However, if we really want to tackle the collective repression and violence that is going on in other groups too, I wonder whether we do not have to admit that this is going to be a dividing line; there is not a total sisterhood in which we include all women and children who are subjected to collective standards and who are punished for not living by the codes of a gang criminality or a religious group. Should we stay there, or is there something in that criticism?
i-6x9djByWQMF978zVQPaeVj	Mr President, I would like to Welcome, honourable Member. This is the first time we have debated here. I have no doubt at all about your commitment, but at the same time you represent a party which actually reserved itself against the proposal in the report. You can't ignore that. Thankfully, the Parliament was behind this. It became a law, and we have saved many children. The Left Party always finds excuses. A few years ago, you proposed a difficult solution to change the props for gross female defamation. The Left is always looking for referrals that you can hide behind in order to avoid talking about honor. In the speaker's chair today, the honourable Member said several times a so-called honour. You are not even saying this, even though it affects hundreds of thousands of children, young people, women and LGBT people in the world. Hundreds of thousands of children are married or maimed in 33 different countries each year. It's not just discriminatory. As early as 2005, Kofi Annan said that the world's oppression of honour was universal. I didn't know where on the map Sweden was when I was small and exposed. At that time there was no Swedish white person who would violate my honour or religion in Kurdistan. We have to understand. I agree with the previous speaker, Mr Juno, that we need to have an understanding in order to be able to make this point. That is why I think that we just want to hide behind different inventions instead of speaking objectively.
i-TAYkSFNHyWdGMojebQmmFj	Mr President, I would like to I want to say I'm not hiding. I also claim that I speak clearly of violence in the name of honour. But I put it in a context. I see that this is happening in a certain context. There are also other forms of violence that occur in similar contexts, and there are things that may be quite different. However, I do not want to say that the Left Party is slowing down or putting sticks in the wheel. We're serious about a problem. I am also a lawyer, and I want the legislation to have bearings and that it should be based on general principles. Here in Parliament, we make the legislation we want. Law is really frozen politics. But it takes good politics to make it good law. And in the transition there must be respect for some legal principles, including generality, so that it does not go completely wrong. I would like to defend myself there and say that the Left Party wants to act against all forms of violence and oppression, including violence in the name of honour. In fact, I think I was very clear about that in the speaker's chair as well.
i-RsVQtAyDqdx33888fuhMbV	Mr President, I would like to Member! No, actually, you don't want to talk about it in general. When you talk about it in general, you lose it. Then you betray women, girls, LGBT people and even little boys, who are both victims and perpetrators in the culture of honor. The word honor already exists today in the penal code as a basis of punishment. This penalty has been applied by the courts. I don't know what the Left Party really wants. Then the honourable Member says that she has always stood up for this. When she worked at the Swedish Crime Victims Agency, she was interviewed in P1 in 2004, and as soon as the word was up, she said that she did not want to discuss the subject and that it was about Swedish women. She said: We must not build a thinking about us and them. That's what she just said in the speaker's chair. Although she was not in Parliament in 2020, she made the same statement just now in the speaker's chair. This is how it always sounds from leading left-wingers. When the party chairman was young, she accused everyone who invested in mapping and said it was about huge resources. Economic-political spokesperson Ali Esbati said after Fadime Sahindal was murdered that it was a fundamentally racist approach, and demanded the resignation of the then Minister of Integration with immediate effect due to this debate. And it continues to this day in the pulpit.
i-Kox2ffiyNWAR8qMQWTAPQJ	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating measures against gang crime, as so many times before in this House. A lot is said. Much has already been done. Many legislative proposals have been adopted to provide authorities with better tools against gangs. Not least, we are well on our way to the target of 10,000 more police workers. More gang members than ever are now under lock and key. However, the situation we have today will require much more, such as more police officers, stronger legislation and, not least, preventive action. If we hadn't had a growth in the gangs, we would soon have managed to get them out. We must ensure that there is not always a new one who is prepared to take over from the one who disappears from the gang. We must ensure that young people move in a completely different direction. It is not a question of depriving the individual of responsibility for his own actions, but of clearing paths towards an honest life in order to make the recruitment of the gangs more difficult. It is about a school, a social service and a labour market that also works for those with special difficulties in life. Mr President, I would like to During the Easter weekend we saw terrible scenes around Sweden. Miraculously, no one died during the violent riots that occurred in Sweden. In addition to all individual police officers who have been horrendously affected, democracy has also been attacked. Anyone who brutally hijacks a police car shows the same kind of contempt for democracy as Trumps's supporters did when they stormed the Capitol. The right-wing extremist who does everything to hurt, damage and divide is satisfied when he has been helped to create a chaos that polarized Sweden further. The police will of course make their own thorough analysis of what happened, why it happened and how it will not happen again. But even now, it is clear that many of those who endangered policemen were gang members. The courts will now judge those who have taken part in the riots. In the 2022 law book, the crime is grossly blue light abotage with a penalty scale from two years in prison to life. This crime is an example of a new tool that we have given the judiciary against criminal gangs. But we politicians also have the task of continuing to work against organised crime. Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating specifically six proposals, all in areas where the government has already started work. Let me begin with the proposal on the seizure and confiscation of criminal profits. The idea of taking criminal gains from gang criminals to a greater extent is excellent. The proposal of the confiscation investigation is now being consulted. There are offensive measures for this that would really make a difference. The investigation has chosen a different path rather than a reversal of the burden of proof. It is important that we get to the crime profits without ordinary honest people getting caught. The government's work on preventive coercive measures is in full swing. Now the investigation period is barely a year, with more than seven months left. It does not seem realistic to produce legislation, either temporary or permanent, faster than that without compromising quality and legal certainty. Without a thorough analysis, there is a great risk that the legislation will not be applicable. In the case of participation in a criminal organisation, a large part of the gang's activities are already criminalised, such as preparatory and other types of support measures. Many criminal networks are also loosely composed, and mobility within and between the networks is high. There are far more important and urgent steps to be taken to make it more difficult for the gangs. Furthermore, the criminalisation of all participation in a criminal organisation would require an amendment to the Constitution, which takes a very long time to implement. Let me move on to a restraining order. The proposal we are now discussing is in line with the investigation already announced by the Minister of Justice, which is why we will also vote in favour of the proposal. There is also a proposal for more effective use of biometric information. The investigation that has been commissioned by the government to look at this issue has been given a broad mandate to review the rules. I therefore see in my view that the investigation can make far-reaching proposals which could lead to a clearly better conditions for the police to solve serious crimes using new technologies and methods. The investigation is now also given an explicit mandate to review the police's ability to use the so-called genealogy principle. Finally, the exchange of information between authorities is a very important issue. There are far too many examples of how confidentiality prevents important efforts in an unreasonable way. Increased opportunities to share information is also in line with the investigation announced by Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson at a press conference on 17 March this year. The investigation may be caught up in a different solution than the one that is up for discussion today after its in-depth dive into the subject. The investigator must have a broad mission so that it is not locked in the work to find the best possible solution in line with what we all want to see put in place. Mr President, I would like to In doing so, I am in favour of the reservations on which we have not had a majority in committee but should be able to have it in plenary, namely reservations 2 and 3.
i-3gf62573r4hGxQaaaFkG7c	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for reservation 3 to be approved under paragraph 3. What is the Swedish state like? What about crime, particularly violent crime, in our country? These questions have been asked by 22 researchers and examined more closely, and a few weeks ago the results of their work were published in an anthology called The Swedish State – An An Anthology of Crime Development in Sweden. The other week, a couple of them visited the Riksdag to hold a seminar, invited by the Society Members of Parliament and researchers. The Society's chairman, as well as a moderate Member of Parliament, said when the seminar began: "We need to become more skilled at bringing in science and proven experience before the decisions we make here in Parliament. I totally agree with her. To make the wisest and best decisions for Sweden, we need to have a correct picture of problems. Something that may surprise the results is that the number of victims of fatal violence in Sweden, in relation to the population, is actually no more today than it was in the early 1990s. But even if deadly violence is not more widespread today than it was then, there is something that stands out, and it is deadly gun violence. Unfortunately, that graph skyrockets in the last ten years. No one's missed that. Mr President, I would like to The report being debated in this House today has the name New tools against gang crime. Gang crime – what does it give the word for associations? What images appear in our heads? Is it perhaps the image of a young angry man in the town dealing with drugs? During a seminar, I have heard a police scientist paint that picture and immediately afterwards say that if we equate that image with serious organised crime, we risk missing the whole case. I agree after working primarily as a prosecutor on financial crime in recent years. For my part, I would rather use the concept of organised crime than gang crime just to avoid leading the idea wrong. For if we are to find the right tools, which really make a difference and are effective in prosecuting such crime, it is a good start if we agree on what that crime looks like. The results of the 22 researchers' work are clear. The links between serious violent crime and organised economic crime have increased significantly. Mr President, I would like to The biggest motivator of organised crime is not at all difficult for ordinary people to relate to. It spells money: crowns, bitcoin, euros or dollars. This is really good profitability, preferably at low risk. And when you have a lot of money, you also have power. In recent years, police and prosecutors and also in politics have been talking more and more about the importance of going after the money, that it should cost to be a criminal, that we must take away the criminal their expensive cars, their watches and their profits. And that is a good thing, but that assumes that there is money or valuables available. What if we focused even more on prevention? Now I'm not talking about what the chief police officer Anders Thornberg was talking about when he visited the Justice Committee the other week, and who also Gustaf Lantz was talking about here a moment ago, that we have to work proactively to stop the recruitment of the so-called gangs, or the criminal networks, as I would rather say. Of course, this is very important. I agree with him. But it is not the preventive measures I am referring to now. I am talking about the need to ensure that we prevent the serious criminals from accessing as much money as they do today with relatively simple means and without a greater risk of detection. Mr President, I would like to It is estimated that sales of drugs in Sweden are in the first line approximately SEK 2 billion a year. Last year, fraud crime in Sweden had the same turnover, i.e. SEK 2 billion. The wealth crimes accounted for an estimated SEK 13 billion. And if we then go on to talk about black income, the figure is mentioned as SEK 90 billion a year. If you wanted to make really good money and didn't hesitate to do it illegally and at a low risk of being discovered and in danger of law, which way would you choose? Yes, we can look, for example, at some people who blew our pension systems out of huge sums of money in Falcon Funds and Allra. Much of that money has gone up in smoke, and there are still several suspects who have not been prosecuted, because they cannot be found. They're no longer in the country. But these are just a couple of pretty extreme examples. There are plenty of other approaches that have not received as much attention but which still generate very large amounts of money to people who are not rarely connected to criminal networks with violent capital. I have seen that myself in a number of cases. Anyone who took note of the report that came in last autumn with the name Authority's common situation picture – organised crime in 2021 should not be surprised by what I am saying now. The report is the result of the work of 12 cooperating authorities, including police and prosecutors, and it highlights that one of the most serious threats posed by organised crime is attacks on payment systems and evasion of taxes and charges. Mr President, I would like to As I said, we are debating here today some proposed tools against gang crime, or organised crime. I note that several of the proposals put forward in the report are issues already under consideration in the Government Office, which is under investigation, as Mr Lantz was concerned about. Some are calling for a faster pace in these investigations. For my part, I prefer to put elaborate proposals on the table when the time comes. No one benefits from having proposals brought forward without the opportunity for careful scrutiny and careful balances so that the proposals achieve the intended effect. However, I would like to highlight one of the proposals that have been put forward, because in this area much more can be done, and this concerns the exchange of information between authorities. Here we need to get better – much better. This report deals with better opportunities to share information between police and social services in order to be able to take the right action quickly when a young person is on the run. But the issue of the exchange of information between authorities is much bigger than that. And, in my view, it is crucial to succeed in what I was in a moment ago, namely to prevent serious criminals from accessing as much money as they are doing today with relatively simple means and without a greater risk of detection. Mr President, I would like to I was in Skärholmen on Monday. It is a district that, like several other outer areas here in Stockholm, has unfortunately had problems with serious crime, although they have been spared from shootings since last summer, I was told. In Skärholmen, I visited the district administration and met several of the employees to hear how they work to ensure that our tax money does not end up in the wrong pockets. I heard about their work against undue payments of financial support and about their systematic checks on companies with which they are to conclude contracts when they procure such things as places in HVB homes. Here their diligent work has caused them to discover rogue companies, and they have chosen not to enter into agreements with those companies. I also heard about their procedures regarding the payment of association grants. They have discovered inaccuracies in an association that has received millions and where the operation has not been properly managed, and where the payments have now been stopped. When I asked them what they were asking for legislative changes in order to be able to work even more effectively, there was one thing that quickly came to the table: changing the confidentiality rules. Today, officials can only obtain information from other sources after they have initiated a verification investigation. In this way they discovered that a person who received financial support had an annual income that is not far behind the level of our parliamentary fees. But would it not be better, even much better, if this could have been discovered before the payments of tax money were made? Mr President, I would like to We have a serious problem in Sweden today with serious crime that particularly plagues certain areas and the residents there. It is extremely important to push back that crime and to find the right measures in order to do just that. If we are to succeed in this, we need common strength and determination. And let's start with, as was so wisely said by the moderate Member of Parliament at that research seminar the other week, to get us a correct picture of problems.
i-VBhqXmcj6Ycyhm2qhGDizA	Mr President, I would like to I would like to warn you that I am going to suspend my registered speaking time. Thank you. And I'm sorry. I wrote this debate post at my son's swimming school. We parents sat in the café while our children learned to dip their heads underwater. About two weeks ago I was in the same place, but then stones were thrown, and cars burned. When I parked my car there were only burned marks of one car left in the parking lot. This is Navestad, one of Norrköping's vulnerable areas. It is also the place where my son's former open preschool and current swimming school are located. But politicians are currently acting as if vulnerable areas are not our areas and that Navestad would be something you see on the news on television and then debate when it has been committed devilishness and you have seen pictures. I saw the cops risking their lives. They were hit by rocks. I saw the broken police cars and the blue light sirens. The information I have learned is that in Östergötland there were no individuals who wanted to fight, but it was unfortunately living in the areas together with organized criminal gang criminals. This is totally unacceptable. The individuals will be arrested, investigated, prosecuted and given their verdict. But even children and parents have been involved in the riots, and that says something about how far away our common society as some of the people in vulnerable areas are from. Furthermore, it says something about the division in Sweden. This is a huge challenge, and there are no excuses. Many have described the operation as a failure of the police. I'd say yes and no about that. However, as we are debating today whether to give the police more powers and tools, I would like to highlight the tools that the police already have. I would say that the failure occurred when the police did not take more account of how the law of order can be used. The police should have the ability to take more account of who is seeking permission to express their opinion. The person Paludan who applied for permission is convicted of incitement to ethnic groups three times in Denmark. What effect can it have on his way of expressing his views in Sweden? Obviously, it led to violence against the police — a violence that shocked the police. This is where the police should have made more use of the law of order. When is the person seeking permission? Can the timing have an impact on what can happen on the spot? Where is the person seeking permission? Does this place have a special significance? Places for which Paludan applied for permission were Råslätt, Skäggetorp, Navestad, Rinkeby and Vivalla. In the Committee on Legal Affairs, we know very well that these are particularly vulnerable or vulnerable areas. Of course, where permits are given a meaning. Notifications from the regional intelligence units were missing, despite the fact that the police have been given enormous powers and resources for intelligence work. Police resources were missing - probably because it was Easter leave. I understand that. At the same time, however, there is no authority other than the Police Authority that has received so much financial money that there will be more police officers in Sweden. Still, police officers are missing. Mr President, I would like to The head of state police visited the Committee on Justice last week. He said a lot of good things about the importance of early intervention. And then he quickly started talking about what equipment the police need. That is about the same thing that we are debating today. The report contains proposals that come from one of the wish lists of the chief police officer. I think it originally came from DN Debate. It is a wish list about getting access to more tools, and many are about more monitoring of Swedish citizens. The same point was made by the head of the National Police at the meeting of the committee after the riots. He was talking about water cannons and rubber bullets. But he did not say a word about the police in four of Sweden's seven police regions lacking the right education to meet violent groups. In the police regions East, Bergslagen, Mitt and Nord there are enough people who have training in special police tactics. On the other hand, there are police officers who are trained in AMF, working against crowds. But the special police tactics mean higher skills and better equipment, and above all better and more well-structured management structure in violent riots, for example. It's missing today. I don't want to believe that the chief of police would rather go for water cannons than the proper training of the police. But it says something about the debate when an authority's top executive starts talking about another wish list instead of his employees having the right education to meet aggressive crowds. I think it is wanting to transfer responsibility from the Police Authority to someone else, and that is the wrong way to run and run an authority. But it was another good thing that the chief of police said: Everything that we in the police department want should not become politics. And right now, I can't do anything but agree. Large aggressive crowds are a living organism that will not be better managed with water cannons, but with the right police tactics. The most important thing right now is to create safe areas again. It is an enormous job that must be done by the police, the municipalities and by voluntary action. It is precisely this work that is constantly being done in the affected areas. What concerns me enormously are leading politicians who speak both ignorantly and dangerously. The party leader of the Christian Democrats Ebba Busch questions in Ekot's Saturday interview that the police did not shoot sharply during the Easter weekend riots and wonders why there were not at least 100 injured Islamists. What changes do the Christian Democrats want to see regarding the police shooting decree? Busch himself mentioned that women and children participated in the riots. Is it the same women and children that Bush wants the police to shoot at more often? Ebba Busch puts his finger on a feeling that I also feel," said Moderates' legal spokesperson Johan Forssell – a feeling I also feel. Then I feel that feelings are the last thing the police work needs right now. However, there is a need for method development and a management that knows what it wants. Mr President, I would like to In this report, the same politicians, who know different things and who ask questions in national media, very based on current feelings, express that the police should be given additional tools. This report proposes preventive coercive measures, criminalised participation in criminal gangs and other things that the chief police officer has wanted and which, among other things, M, KD and SD are doing everything they can to fulfil. I have probably been clear in this debate about where the Left Party's view is. But what scares me most is how the riots will affect the public debate. Those who throw stones do exactly what the Koran burner wanted, namely to divide society and increase hatred against Islam and Muslims even more. There are conspiracy theories in right-wing environments about the Islamisation of society and that political correctness creates a breeding ground. That's the breeding ground Ebba Busch stands on when she says Islamists should be dead on the street. The police constantly need to develop methods and lean on what research, development and experience say. The police must be given the right resources to curb riots. They must have the right training and management functions to curb riots, gang crime and shootings. But the police must also be much better at using equipment, legislation, resources and planning right in order to protect the Swedish people. It is hardly any proposal in the report that is good, but I will put forward motions where there is a false majority in committee. That is why I support Amendments Nos 2 and 3.
i-8LkquP3DAp9tBzyTEsMvt4	Mr President, I would like to Gang crime is the government's biggest failure. Despite repeated promises, we see that progress is going in the wrong direction. The shootings broke the record in the first quarter of this year. Shooting has become a daily crime in Sweden. Hardly anyone reacts anymore when it says of a shooting anywhere. The insecurity of the Swedish people has never been greater. The recruitment to the gangs remains strong – the police indicate that at least 1 000 new people are recruited each year. At the same time, the places in police training have not been filled in the last 13 semesters. The Social Democrats promise and promise that gang crime will be broken. Only a few years ago, Morgan Johansson and Mikael Damberg pointed out that the shootings would be reduced. Reality shows just the opposite. It's just getting worse and worse every day. Magdalena Andersson has said that the government will turn every stone to combat serious crime. What the government has done so far, however, has not bitten the gangs. It's not about doing the most things. It's about doing the right things. What really needs to be done is what would make it really difficult to be gang-critical. Mr President, I would like to In December, the chief of police sent a letter to the government. The tone was very serious: gang crime is a systemic threat. In the letter, the police presented several suggestions that were considered necessary to combat the serious gang crime. This required political action of a kind that had not been seen before. However, since the government did not seem interested in acting, the opposition had to do so instead, as has been the case throughout this term of office. New legislation and new tools come into place despite the government, not thanks to it. Morgan Johansson usually boasts that the government has tightened the penalties for any number of crimes – I think there are about fifty of them he says. What he forgets to say is that it is based on announcements from the parliamentary opposition parties. The Moderates, SD, KD and L took a special committee initiative on new tools against gang crime. The initiative contains the measures requested by the police: a better means of confiscating, i.e. taking, the assets of criminals
i-T4LxJTrP96bKK9uQVN9CKR	More efficient use of biometric information, such as DNA improving the exchange of information between authorities; Everything is important, but I will focus in particular on two measures. The first is the wiretap. If more gang criminals are to be prosecuted, the judiciary must be given much better opportunities to intercept criminals, including for preventive purposes. Encrochat was fantastic, but it can't be that the country in Europe that has the biggest problem with gang crime – that is, unfortunately Sweden – should be dependent on the police in France to prosecute gang criminals? The government first refused to investigate the question of preventive coercive measures. But when the criticism got too heavy, you had to turn. An investigation has now been set up, but it must be completely unconditional – that is, without any requirement to arrive at anything at all. It can therefore end in any case, perhaps without any good proposals at all. We recognize that pattern from before. That's how anyone who wants to hide difficult questions acts. The police won't settle for this. I understand them. They point out that the situation is so serious that this opportunity is already needed. We do not have time to wait several years for a government bill to come. The police therefore want temporary legislation. Already today, legislation provides for the possibility of interception without concrete criminal suspicions by terrorists and spies. Now it is time to take a step forward and include also gang criminals. Secondly, we're going to make it a criminal offense to be in a criminal gang. This is already the case in Finland, for example. It works well there and is a way to prosecute gang criminals at an early stage. This is a constitutional issue. The government has just completed a constitutional investigation. Why did the Social Democrats refuse to include this as part of it? Then we would have been able to make a decision now and a follow-up decision this autumn. By then, the legislation could have entered into force by the end of the year. This is what Morgan Johansson calls symbolic politics. He did so when he was on the Justice Committee last week and this particular proposal came up. It doesn't make any sense. The police are not involved in symbolic politics but are presenting proposals for measures that they believe have an effect on gang crime. But I'm not surprised by Morgan Johansson's choice of words. Magdalena Andersson also used that word for a Question Time a couple of weeks ago. She called this proposal symbolic policy. It is therefore a proposal which the police themselves have made and which they say they need in order to combat serious crime. This is what Magdalena Andersson and Morgan Johansson call symbolic politics. They do not seem to have huge confidence in the police and their views on how to fight serious crime. I would also like to remind you that the government itself has made proposals to make it punishable to be part of a terrorist organisation. It's the same kind of ban but for terrorists instead of gang criminals. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is plagued by crime. But there's hope. The opposition in Parliament has put forward several very far-reaching proposals to make Sweden safer and safer. We listen to what the police and prosecutors say instead of rejecting us. We will do what is necessary to stop the criminal gangs, break the recruitment process and restore law and order in Sweden. Finally, our committee initiative contains six proposals for measures that the police are asking for in order to combat serious gang crime. Of these six proposals, the Social Democrats are voting against five. They are therefore voting against five of the six measures that the police want. Magdalena Andersson says she will turn every stone to fight serious crime. Is that right? No, it doesn't. That proves the case that we are debating today. It's easy to talk, but it's just empty words.
i-MMhfoPNKARFB2XLn9eW4qd	Mr President, I would like to These are incredibly exciting questions that Ellen Juntti raises about what tools the police will be allowed to use. Something I'm a little more interested in is this secret coercive. I'm thinking that Ellen Juntti, who has worked as a police officer for many years, has enormous expertise in police tools. She'll have to explain a little to me. I think that the proposal for preventive measures is a huge interference in personal privacy. It is a completely new way of using secret coercive measures in Sweden to give the police the power to intercept them that there is not actually a crime suspicion about. How do the Moderates think it should be balanced in what the KU often debates and thinks about in terms of personal integrity? There I would like to hear a line of reasoning. I have also asked quite a number of questions earlier to the chief of police, among others, about secret data readings and the Trojans installed in mobiles, computers and the like used for the secret data reading. Does Ellen Juntti think that those Trojans, the tools that the police use in secret data reading, are effective enough? It was a huge success that the French police, together with Europol, could crack Encrochat. It's very impressive police work. What I've been thinking a lot about is why the Swedish police don't really have the skills to access these very encrypted phones. I would like to hear if the Moderates believe that the Swedish police should develop their own encryption key. I think it is the Moderates who want signal reconnaissance, i.e. what the military uses, to be able to be used within Sweden. I'd like to hear Ellen Juntti tell me a little bit about it.
i-JApnYxyWo6KR4S8Hr3JGB7	Mr President, I would like to Personal privacy is important, but privacy can also be seen from elsewhere, such as the integrity of law - abiding people. Sometimes you have to choose. Should you be on the side of criminals or law - abiding people? At least I'm very easy to choose. Should the integrity of criminals be protected at the expense of law - abiding people? No, I don't think so, but I think you should have preventive coercive measures. With regard to gang crime, a great many people are now locked up thanks to Encrochat – thanks to preventive coercive measures in other countries, such as France. It is very strange that we, which are in principle at the top of the list in terms of gang crime and shootings, do not have the necessary legislation and must rely on other countries to serve us with information. I have no major problem with preventive coercive measures. I believe that they will be well used in terms of the integrity of law-abiding people and that they will not be used more than is actually needed in the area of interception of innocent people.
i-8HnWpsV8mgutW84pPGksw	Mr President, I would like to I did not feel that I had many answers to my questions. As we all know, integrity is not a question of whether someone is stupid or good or criminal or not. Integrity concerns the individual's protection against being missupervised by the state, as we see in Communist dictatorships, for example. That is a very bad way for a state to go after the free individual. There is a lot of legislation today. What's missing in the police, and I thought you'd answer that, for example, is what's going on with Encrochat. Should the police develop their own encryption key? Nevertheless, it is the encryption of the information that is tricky about these supermobiles of all kinds. Should Swedish police have their own encryption key? Do the Moderates consider the Trojans used by the police to be sufficiently effective, or are there other programs that the Moderates believe should be used by the police when it comes to secret data reading? On the question of signal reconnaissance, I received no answer at all. I think it's like this, but you'll have to explain more about signal reconnaissance; it's an extremely complicated and difficult question. Do the Moderates believe that the military intelligence carried out by Must should also be used against their own citizens? If so, how do the Moderates reason about personal integrity and state authority? Clearly, the Moderates have no problem monitoring and listening anymore. You'd love to have those opinions, but the knowledge, Ellen Juntti! The Moderates must show that you understand what it means when you legislate for the state to monitor more citizens. Show that the Moderates have that knowledge!
i-6Y2hw3PNAGuh5kaPZwqrEk	Mr President, I would like to I don't really think Linda Snecker has accurate knowledge of everything about how secret eavesdropping is done. I trust the Swedish police. When they ask for the tools they need to listen to gang criminals for preventive purposes, without any concrete suspicion, I trust that they will do this properly. They want this tool because they think it is necessary. That is why so many gang criminals are now behind bars: because other countries have this possibility, but not Swedish police. I am not concerned that this should be used incorrectly, because I think the Swedish police have so much to do that they do not sit and listen to anyone for fun. It is to ensure that we can actually combat serious organised crime. It's a systemic threat, says the police. Exactly how it should be done in detail, I don't think either I or Linda Snecker know. But when the Swedish police say they need this, I think they should get it, quite simply. This is not just about the integrity of criminals. It also applies to my integrity – that I should be able to walk in the streets and squares of the city without getting shot to death or getting rocks in my head. It is so typical of the Left Party that they always think of the integrity of criminals, not of those who are law-abiding. I take a little credit for what Linda Snecker mentioned about Ebba Busch's statement. As a cop, I feel like I don't want anyone to get hurt in such a situation. But if anyone's gonna get hurt, I don't want it to be over a hundred cops. I am sure this will also be misinterpreted in some way, but I would prefer that no one should be harmed.
i-L1fJWbcGrtAEjeZ7eJoCBD	Mr President, I would like to The government has completely lost control of gang crime and its consequences. There's no other way to describe it. It is not possible, with honour, to try to paint the situation in which Sweden finds itself. There must be no more dalting and half-measures now. Sweden needs a real change, and for seven years the government has shown that it does not have what it needs to ensure order and security in our country. When we launched this committee initiative, we reported that seven people had been shot to death in January of this year. Since then, more than twice as many people have been shot to death. Mr President, I would like to The police themselves describe crime as a threat to the system. Violent crimes are only the tip of an iceberg. There are rogue traders, lawyers, accountants, corrupt government personnel, foreign stakeholders, fraudsters and many others, who in one way or another make it possible and are part of gang crime. The problems we see in Sweden today have been allowed to emerge and cemented for years. Not everyone saw it coming, but no one can claim that the warning signs did not exist. The Swedish Democrats saw them early, long before everyone else. That is why we were also long alone in being ready to take the necessary measures to curb development, restore the rule of law and guarantee security in our country. For many years we worked in vain and without hearing too much of our criminal policy, but now more and more people have taken after us in succession. This is, of course, gratifying, even though it is frustrating that no more consensus has taken place in the past. This particular report, however, concerns issues where we have broad support today for our opinion. Together with the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals, we have landed in a series of proposals for which we are today seeking support and have received some support in committee. However, neither the Swedish Democrats nor any other party alone should be given all the credit for the proposals we are debating today. One major reason why we have managed to achieve relatively broad support for many of these proposals is, I believe, that the Police Authority lifted them in its memo to the Ministry of Justice in December. Mr President, I would like to In recent years, not least thanks to the Conservative bloc, the law-related authorities in general and the Police Authority in particular have received significant reinforcements of resources – this at the same time as we have tightened the penalties, come up with new criminal rules and, overall, made it possible for more effective law enforcement. In some areas we can see a result of this, but for the greatest successes we have to thank the foreign police and their work on decryption of chat features that criminals use. It is possible that further results can be discerned later, but it is undeniably the case that we have not yet reached all the way and that more is needed. That is precisely why we want to meet the wishes of the police and, in fact, in committee, we have heard all the points. Mr President, I would like to Firstly, it is a question of being able to confiscate the assets of serious criminals more easily through a form of reverse burden of proof, in which criminals need to prove how they have gotten over their money and expensive assets. Secondly, it is a matter of temporary legislation on preventive coercive measures in order to be able to intercept persons associated with organised crime without at the moment having a real suspicion of crimes affecting them. Thirdly, it is a question of criminalising participation in criminal gangs, so that we can prosecute those who work in a gang before they can commit more serious crime in the gang. Fourthly, it is a ban on the stay of gang criminals, because today's networking groups are often geographically centred, and we need to be able to prevent criminals from staying in the areas where they commit crimes. Fifthly, the use of biometric information is more effective in identifying and subsequently prosecuting offenders. Sixthly, it is an improvement in the exchange of information between authorities – something that is often pointed out as a direct necessity for effective law enforcement. Mr President, I would like to I appreciate and trust the Swedish police. Every day the police do their utmost to establish order and security in our country. Unfortunately, today they have neither colleagues, resources nor tools to the extent that they need to really succeed in their mission. That is a pity, and it is a failure to blame other politicians. Today, however, we make decisions on the police's own wish list. I welcome the fact that all our proposals have been heard in committee, but note that two important proposals, preventive coercive measures and bans on participation in a criminal organisation, will be voted down in this House. I hope that the government will immediately take action on the four proposals that will be heard in this House and, with this, call for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved.
i-82xMcVwNwvLcxVawkm2s11	Mr President, I would like to The riots and riots that shook Sweden are the tip of an iceberg in the Swedish security crisis where crime puts city after city in terror. The government and the Social Democrats are ultimately responsible for this. Crime's out of control. We have vulnerable areas where Swedish democracy, values and society are threatened. Policemen who enter the areas to maintain law and order have stones thrown at them – not just as a protest but as a murder weapon, where the purpose is to kill police officers. The police are facing a senseless hatred. A riot is not something one avoids but uses as an audition for criminal gangs. It is against this background that we are debating today new, powerful tools and measures against gang crime. It builds on the memo submitted by the Head of State Police and the Police Authority to the Ministry of Justice, which has also been prepared in the Committee on Justice, to give the police the tools and powers that the police themselves demand and need. As someone was on it, it is not a natural law for a chief of police to get what he wants, but who is better at asking for and seeing what is needed to reverse developments in insecurity than the police officers and the chief of police who are set to fight it? That is why the Christian Democrats take their needs list seriously. It is not a wish list, as some derogatory people call it, as if it were Christmas Eve, far from it. It's a list of needs. There is a need that the police authorities point to, and we have to give them what they say they need. These are measures that the government rejects. Some say you're on the go, but what would really be needed, you say no to. There are six points in the report. The Christian Democrats support all the committee's proposals. The first concerns the seizure and confiscation of criminal profits. You're supposed to go for the money and take the money from the criminals. Anyone who does not work and does not have a legitimate source of income should not be able to slide around in a fancy car and use it as recruitment to gang crime. Watches, large amounts of cash and other status symbols are extremely important in recruiting children to gang crime. That is why it is so important to go on the crime profits, to seize them and to confiscate them. The second is preventive coercive measures, pro-active interception. It's been at the top of the police's list of needs. The proposal is about introducing a temporary law that gives the police this tool considerably faster than the government – reluctantly under pressure from this House – has finally begun to investigate. But every day without this is a day when the police enter these areas blindfolded. You can't see and you can't hear. Yesterday, the Justice Committee was invited to the District Attorney's Office for a seminar on Encrochat. There we got insight into the chats – you have got that elsewhere too when Encrochat has been decrypted – and see how the criminals express themselves and with what rawness they do it. Above all, however, we saw that the leading layer of crime can actually be tackled. That is why preventive coercive measures are so important. The third is to criminalise participation in a criminal organisation. This is something that KD has been running since the 1990s. Now there is a majority in favour of it, even if it is a false majority of the Committee on Justice. However, I hope that some Members can change their mind for the vote this afternoon so that we can have this in place. Several of our neighbours have legislation that makes it punishable to participate in the activities of a criminal gang. We believe that this is a system that needs to be introduced in Sweden too, not least in order to stop the recruitment of criminal gangs. Such a provision would make it possible to judge persons who commit crimes before they are drawn deeper into that kind of crime. Other points concern the prohibition of residence, the more effective use of biometric information and the strengthening of the exchange of information between authorities. Nothing, Mr President, can be more important than doing everything necessary to combat gang crime. We in Sweden should not have such a situation as we had in Easter. That is also why, 20 years ago, the Christian Democrats put forward proposals on water cannons for the first time, and that is why, in our shadow budgets for six years, we have had resources and funds available to the police to prioritise the purchase of water cannons, beanbags and rubber bullets, so that there will be alternative weapons between baton and gun. Mr President, I would like to We definitely need new tools against gang crime. We need to give the police what it takes. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-RzPEZXnBveAY5axauMdkFz	Mr President, I would like to The most useful thing that has happened to me in my political education was when I had a child. Children record exactly everything – what is being done and what is being said – and what is being done and said must be consistent, otherwise you will be confronted. In fact, it is the same principle in politics. What we politicians say expects the voters to become politics as well. In his speech, Andreas Carlson mentioned the terrible events of the Easter weekend and the riots that were. Andreas Carlson's party chairman has also commented on this outside the Chamber. I think there are many who now want to know what was said in the interview that there should have been a hundred shot Islamists, gang members, rebels. How will the Christian Democrats manage what was said in political contexts? What concrete policy proposals will be put forward? How had a Christian Democratic Minister of Justice managed these statements?
i-Brd2VEdeHQAWkudiRQGUYe	Madam President, I would like I will answer this question quite bluntly. Gustaf Lantz says that you learn from children that what you say and what you do needs to be connected. But it is also important that what you have heard someone say also goes with what you then say that that person has said. There's nothing in that quote that says there should have been a hundred shot Islamists. I think it is distorting and misinterpreting the statement. It is not only Gustaf Lantz who makes that mistake, but it has also been made by SVT, for example, who has cut together two parts of a quote to achieve this effect. I also understand that the government is more interested in discussing a quote than discussing that we have over a hundred police officers who are injured because they have lost control in city after city so that police have had to back down. We will therefore manage this in such a way that we do not back off from the fact that it is the state that should have the monopoly of violence. My question to Gustaf Lantz is: Who had the monopoly of violence in the Easter weekend in several of these areas? Is Gustaf Lantz satisfied with this situation?
i-K2HVQMovxK3WZoCzbgVXcS	Madam President, I would like With children, it does not work either to deny what you have said or to say that you do not mean what you have said. What has been said is what applies, and everyone has heard and everyone can control afterwards what Ebba Busch actually said. Andreas Carlson said in his speech that no one but the police themselves knows better about their needs. Imagine, then, that you as a police officer have experienced these terrible events and have assessed the situation on the basis of what you have learned in your education about emergency justice, because that decision lies with the individual policeman, and then there comes a tricky politician and says what you should have done instead! As if a politician who has watched television and received a feeling would be better able to judge what the individual policeman or policewoman would have done in the individual case. I think it's cool. Nor is it the first time the Christian Democrats have said one thing and done something else. Ebba Busch had a lot of views on how Swedish slander law should be interpreted. But we have not seen any motion since then that is about changing Swedish slander laws. I believe that the voters are looking through this, and I hope that Andreas Carlson also sees the seriousness of being a politician: what is said is important, and the voters expect you to stand by what you say. But we are also responsible for having a decent tone and contributing to a civilised conversation.
i-D2eqdiHGwgoK3UVkyFJDub	Madam President, I would like You can have a civilised conversation about a very uncivilised situation, because that is what this is all about. Over a hundred policemen have been injured. Who had the monopoly of violence in the places where they all went in to murder the Swedish police? The question of why the police do not have better tools to go in with is a legitimate question. Of course, these issues also need to be addressed in the evaluation carried out by the Police Authority itself. But putting words in the mouth of others, we do not go on here. I note that the chief police officer in Gothenburg, Erik Nord, says that if you listen to the entire interview, the overall picture will be different than if you only take part in loose quotes. The police Peter Larsson has changed his mind from having initially been hesitant about this statement to then, when he has seen how serious the situation was on the ground, saying that the question why the police did not shoot sharply is justified. To not back up, to stand up for the Swedish police and to stand up for our Swedish democracy instead of focusing on a loose quote when we have a situation where they have tried to murder the Swedish police is what the Christian Democrats do. That is why we have also been trying to get a debate against Morgan Johansson for almost a week. We have been denied that. Why isn't Morgan Johansson taking the debate? I am happy to take the debate against Gustaf Lantz, but I and my party leader would also be happy to do so against those responsible for the policies that have led us to this for the last almost eight years. That's where we can continue the conversation.
i-ksTZYW3KokCrii4XDc2Nt	Madam President, I would like I think that when we debate Easter riots, all of us politicians highlight our favorite police quotes of various kinds. There it is that the views of the police, too, are incredibly different about what has actually happened. Andreas Carlson's party leader has made a terrible blunder in the statements she has made. No matter how the quotes are cut, I think it shows an ignorance of the Christian Democrats or perhaps just a desire to create headlines about the police's work. I think that is serious, especially when we are now debating what tools and powers the police should have. The debate we have had today is one thing. There it is clear what the Christian Democrats think and what the Left Party thinks. But forward, especially now that we are in the debate on large, violent groupings that use far too much violence against the police, police officers who have risked their lives and have a terribly tough working environment, the Christian Democrats want to give the police very aggressive weapons such as water cannons, rubber bullets and whatever you can find, which would escalate the situation on the ground. As I pointed out in my speech, seven out of ten police regions in Sweden today lack the right education to deal with large, aggressive crowds, i.e. what happened during Easter. Instead you have a smaller version of the training, which of course is good. But before the Christian Democrats start talking about weapons and various tools, we have to make sure that the Swedish police have the right basic education in order to be able to use these weapons at all. Neither Andreas Carlson nor his party leader have raised that at all, and I find that a great pity.
i-7peY6aWSq7wTDrGxfvCdHA	Madam President, I would like We haven't lifted these alternative weapons until now. On the contrary, we put our first exercise on water cannons after the Gothenburg riots 20 years ago. Would the police have been better equipped if you had the water cannons? Yes, even the government is now saying that it is prepared to look at it – only now, 20 years later. Being a politician and having a political leadership is about anticipating and preventing. Of course there should be police officers with the right basic education. But without training and without water cannons, there will be a double error. It is clear that the police should have the necessary training, and the police training that you have basically is very good. Then, of course, you need to have training on the special tactics that are needed, and that can be lifted. I am happy to mention this in this debate as well, and we have been raising the fact that the police need water cannons for 20 years. Six years ago we put forward a funded proposal in our shadow budget so that the police have the opportunity to prioritise and finance the purchase of water cannons and beanbags, so-called distance batons. It is in practice a small bag of rubber bullets that you are being shot to get the same effect as a baton punch fixed on medium distance, which the police are now asking for themselves. We saw that coming six years ago. We have financed it, and the police would have been much better equipped if they had. The Left Party was against it then, and I assume they are against it now too. But perhaps Linda Westerlund Snecker has changed her mind in this debate. Well, that would be right. Linda Westerlund Snecker said that what scares her most is how the riots will affect the public debate. But unlike what scares her the most, riots scare me the most because a hundred policemen are injured, because democracy is out of control and because the monopoly of violence has been loosened. It scares me more than how they affect the public debate.
i-SHJJmiBUDEqsid56TC1ZVR	Madam President, I would like It is noticeable that Ebba Busch has visited Navestad once for two hours. I'll be there every week. The view of political leadership for the Christian Democrats is to really get started on what kind of weapons the police should have. I don't think I've ever seen Andreas Carlson so excited about anything like when he talks about what the police can do to people with these weapons that the Christian Democrats so much want the police to have. Imagine if KD had started as much 20 years ago after the riots in Gothenburg where the police changed their entire way of working against large crowds! What if that thorn had been with the Christian Democrats? But it does not, because it is much more headline-making and seems more powerful to talk about precisely weapons and what they can do than how to ensure that there are no such riots at all and how to secure the vulnerable areas. But then political leadership for 20 years cannot be about how to brag about being the first to propose various water cannons. The Christian Democrats and Andreas Carlson do not highlight the preventive measures anywhere and how we ensure that Sweden will have fewer vulnerable areas, such as Navestad, Skäggetorp and Råslätt. How are we going to ensure that the police can go in and secure these areas? Every proposal that has now come up in the debate, especially that of your party leader, creates more violence. Saying that people are supposed to be dead on the street creates more anxiety, and that puts policemen's lives in danger. With the rhetoric of the Christian Democrats, you risk policemen's lives when they go to work to protect the Swedish people. That makes me really worried.
i-7NUY77oRcbYM1nnyUKiBo3	Madam President, I would like It is not the words of politicians, not even of the Christian Democrats, that create the situation in our suburbs. I think Linda Westerlund Snecker should apologize to the Swedish police. We have more than 100 policemen injured. The reason they are injured is that thugs have taken the liberty of throwing stones at them, not as a protest in some general riot, but in order to murder and harm the Swedish police. It requires words, and it requires condemnation. But it also requires tools. It requires us to turn the situation fundamentally. But the strong and preventive measures that the Christian Democrats have proposed with a parental support programme and with stronger support in civil society – we even got through the initiative for a parental support programme in our joint budget with the Moderates who were negotiated with the Swedish Democrats – have no effect if the thugs continue to put these areas in fear. The reason we drew up our proposal to fund alternative weapons, water cannons, beanbags and rubber bullets, six years ago was because we listened to those sitting in the tall houses and looking down on the area and seeing their car, which they were going to get to work with the next day, burn up. They saw the police backing out of the area and felt betrayed by Swedish society. It's on their side that we stand. You can review my tagging to different degrees, as Linda Westerlund Snecker does here, but I think it is extremely serious that a politician in the Swedish parliament is most worried about how these riots will affect the public debate. I am worried about how these riots and riots will affect Swedish society, these areas and everyone who wants to get in the car, go to work and live a calm, safe and secure life no matter where in the country they live. The Left Party should pay more attention to that.
i-CDp8vb6fgEmpfxUj6hckFi	Madam President, I would like DN meets an ex-team leader who says: People like me will never stop recruiting young people. I have at least eight children I've brainwashed on my conscience. One of the children was his own son. He continues: I have been a criminal my whole life. My father worked for an international criminal network, and I have prepared my own children for that world. He calls them Swedish child soldiers. He says they're breasting a four. After all, an underage person usually receives only four years of closed juvenile care even for, for example, murder. He goes on to say that being in prison is a criminal university. After four years, you're stable. You don't talk in court, you're a 100-man, a man you can trust 100 percent. It might be good for the business to get the youngest caught. When the ex-team leader's own son was 10 years old, he began to go with his father to meetings with other criminals. When he was 13, he got a bulletproof vest as a present. In the summer before he was 18 years old, they both went to jail. Then something happened in ex-gang leader Martin. He is today trying to pep young people in his department to study instead of making new criminal contacts. He's talking about good debugging programs and psychologists who can heal some of what he's destroyed. He says: I do not believe that people like me will stop recruiting young people. It's too lucrative. The only way is to create a counterforce. We are obliged to create this counter-force – clear and early action. If you choose to be a criminal, you opt out of the conditions to be a safe parent. Increase the focus on parents' responsibilities and responsibilities! Today, parental law is absurd. More children need to be taken care of. Invest in school! A good school is an important vaccine against crime. Strengthen Social Services! The impact campaign aimed at social services is terrible. The existence of social secretaries around our country that are slandered, threatened and affected when they are to make decisive decisions is a threat to our whole society and to our democracy. Language is important for belonging. Language creates the conditions for communicating and absorbing information about how our society is built and what actually applies. This is how we minimise the risk of impact campaigns, the aim of which is to threaten and divide our democracy, having an impact. More support and protection should be given to vulnerable children. More support and protection should be given to public authorities. We politicians have a responsibility to take action. Stop recruiting for gang crime. The present proposal to investigate participation in criminal gangs is an important proposal which makes it difficult for criminals to mislead children and young people into crime. It is necessary to make it more difficult for gangs to market themselves against children and young people and to disturb gangs' ability to attract children and young people. That it would be hard to identify the gangs, I don't buy. Read the police report from Stockholm, where they have managed to identify 52 different criminal gangs. Other countries in Europe have legislation that we can be inspired by. So we turn over every stone and do what we can to make children children and not criminal gangs child soldiers. Make sure to take the money, the cars, the watches and the gold chains from the known criminals if they can't show that they've earned their money legally. Then the false image of criminal reality disappears. This reduces the bait for children and young people. Then we turn the stones to really reverse the development. Make sure you can listen to the criminals. With the culture of silence that prevails, where no one dares testify, the judiciary must be given the opportunity to identify and act against the core of the gangs. So we hunt, we disturb and we make a real difference. Today's confidentiality rules between responsible authorities are an obstacle rather than a protection for vulnerable children and young people. That's how we take responsibility. It is not enough to provide guidance and training on current confidentiality rules. The law must be changed, and the law must be clarified. No social security secretary should be afraid to make mistakes when they inform the police. They should know it's their duty, and they should know they're doing the right thing. When children and young people are exposed and when children and young people expose others, we are obliged to work together – for the benefit of the children, for the benefit of the young and for the benefit of the victims. We owe it to all the police officers in the front line the right tools to protect our democracy in the same way as they protect each and every one of us. They should have the right tools to do their vital job. Not only should they feel our support, but they should feel and see that we make the right decisions and take the necessary measures. Authorities alert about children involved in gang crime – small children. Municipalities testify to the need for support and help. Politicians in this House have allowed parallel societies to emerge. Politicians have closed their eyes, pushed their heads into the sand and wanted change, but in order to get to the reality that prevails, we must see and act on the reality that is out there. We will send out clear signals and make the right decision. The social security secretary and the police should feel secure and clear as well as clear support from the politicians responsible. It's the criminals who should sleep poorly. They should feel that they need eyes in the back of their head and that they are being chased by the defenders of democracy and the rule of law. The State shall take back control. That's how we fight parallel communities and the criminal gangs. It is a huge failure that we in Sweden have children who are soldiers for criminals – point. Children should go to school and meet adults who believe in them and have expectations of them. We politicians are obliged to create the right conditions. Member Gustaf Lantz points out that the government has begun its work, and that is a good thing. But one thing is certain, and it's that since I came in here I've realized that we don't blow over the speed of work all the time. I think we all realize that people living out there don't have time for our meekness. Here we go, together!
i-PmTD1LY1XsxqCbsLzpG9Js	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for a very good speech in many respects, Mr Juno as in the previous debate on honour violence! I recognise the tone of the former Member, Mr Pehrson, who was well on the right hand side of politics – that is, in the new block that has been formed – who could really raise the issue of prevention. He did it often, and often with warmth. Here, then, we have six proposals dealing with action against gang crime, and we fully agree that it is not enough but that we must get to grips with recruitment as well. Now we are approaching the election, Juno Blom, and I just wanted to hear how you view the cooperation that you are entering into this election on. Has the recent debate on the riots during the Easter weekend changed your view of the possibility of achieving good preventive work in that constellation? Johan Pehrson is the one who has clearly dissociated himself from the statement Ebba Busch made on the radio, while the other two parties and their party leaders have expressed an understanding and supported it.
i-YHyUrhP7CCzBBmS64rtPto	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Mr Lantz! I would rather say that it becomes even clearer how important it is to have a liberal couple t i in a bourgeois government that sees and understands – as we have done in all times – the value and importance of working with preventive work and with early and clear efforts. I think that the government lacks action on this and has done so during this time, and that is also why I went into politics. I usually say that this is like a pregnancy: you can hide the social development that is, just as you can initially hide a pregnancy – but in time something will come out of your stomach, and in time things will happen in our society. I would like to say that what happened during Easter should be analysed in a much deeper way in many different parts. Then I think, among other things, of what we talked about earlier when it comes to the work against honour-related violence and oppression and the connections that exist about how we view society's right to dictate the conditions for how children should grow up and what security and trust they should have. In my previous work, I have met a lot of young guys who have been in prison and asked them questions about what they think, based on the fact that they have committed serious crimes, they could do to change their behaviour. Throughout, their answer has been:. You would have been there much earlier. You should have come to me when I was four and five and asked the question and helped me. ..................................................... This means that we are in a position right now where I think the proposals on the table are important and would have been implemented much earlier – and, at the same time, it goes without saying that if we want to create a future that looks different, we must take the early steps. I therefore believe that the participation of the Liberals in a bourgeois government is crucial in many different ways.
i-VTJdQdFjqy8BBf6mtS187c	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your answer, Juno Blom! As I said, I agree with much of what has been said about preventive work, Juno Blom. But I also know that you Liberals often stress the rule of law, the rule of law and European cooperation, which are largely based on these elements – and at the same time you have chosen a constellation of Swedish politics where there are representatives who measure the police's efforts in the number of shots shot. You have chosen a constellation where a party representative of the Swedish Democrats has now talked about punishing families collectively, with expulsion, if any family member commits crimes. Somewhere there should be a red line for a liberal party, I think. Where does it really go when it comes to the area of justice, which we have to deal with in the Committee on Justice? When do we leave the side of politics and history that the Liberals have chosen most recently? Are there any red lines that Juno Blom could announce here today when it comes to the area of criminal policy and the issues we are dealing with in the Committee on Justice?
i-XSLrAFQna28hTjoppSZGgH	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Mr Lantz! I believe that both Mr Lantz and I are fully aware that I cannot stand here today and say that I would leave at point x or y. Similarly, I believe that Mr Lantz has difficulty telling me when he would leave a cooperation with the Left Party. For example, we had a debate on honour-related violence and repression, where the Left Party has not been the clearest. We have had the Green Party, with which we had enormous problems during the period of the January cooperation, when the reality that existed and did not want to take action was ducked. I made all my experience available and do not even need to support the proposals, but they must be enforced. I can ask you, Gustaf Lantz, when you feel that your or your party's limit of pain is reached so that you will no longer be able to cooperate with people who are creating obstacles to achieving the social development that is necessary to prevent us from ending up in the situation we are in right now. I'm also from Norrköping, and I've been working in these million-dollar programmes' areas my whole life. The vast crowd of people who live there are terribly vulnerable. I thought about it this morning when I came to Parliament: When visitors come here, they will go through all these security checks because we do not want to feel vulnerable, but the residents in these areas are really vulnerable. It's a failure for all of us. I cannot stand here and tell Mr Lantz where the line is. However, I can be very clear that from day one we have said that we will never negotiate away liberal values. We are prepared to negotiate and talk with anyone to get support for the policy that we believe in – that's like the justification we have in Swedish politics, that is, to have a clear ideological foundation as a party and then stand for it, all the time. So you can rest assured that we have a clear moral compass in terms of right and wrong, Gustaf Lantz.
i-C6ajkRjTGQ3TQuEPpypbp4	Madam President, I would like The future is green, and we should believe in the innovations of the future with new technologies and fuels. All modes of transport will be needed in the future, and this, of course, includes the car. It also requires that we have fuels that are environmentally friendly and that we phase out fossil fuels and make ourselves as independent as we can from Russian oil, for example. In future, we will need different fuels to cope with our modal shift. This includes electricity and hydrogen but also biogas. Madam President, I would like Within the EU, there has been a proposal on how, for example, preferential cars should be classified with different fuels, and that is precisely what this report is about. In a first proposal put forward by the government on this subject, environmentally friendly biogas would be disadvantaged as a fuel if, for example, one wanted a preferential car. The proposal that has been put forward can measure emissions in two different ways and go by either how much carbon dioxide comes out of the exhaust pipe or what the whole life cycle perspective looks like for the emissions of a vehicle. When we look at these kinds of issues, it is also important that we look at as technology-neutral things as possible. Madam President, I would like We in the Center Party believe that policy should take greater account of how vehicle emissions take place from an entire life cycle perspective. In the opinion of the Center Party, counting emissions from the exhaust pipe alone today gives a misleading picture of emissions from the automotive sector and thus does not provide the most effective policy for replacing the vehicle fleet. The Center Party believes, as I mentioned earlier, that an environmental car definition should be as technology neutral as possible, focus on vehicle emissions according to the principle of the whole life cycle perspective and, of course, also include biogas vehicles. Madam President, I would like The Center Party reacted to the proposal that first came from the government because the disadvantaged people's ability to choose a biogas car was based on the government's choice of interpreting the EU directive. Biogas is an important fuel that can be manufactured in Sweden to a greater extent and which we must take advantage of and use in the transport sector. In the proposal that is now before us, and in the proposal that has been put forward, the government has listened to a number of referrals. The Center Party was at first, like many others, very critical, but the definition has now been changed so that the choice of biogas should not be disadvantaged. That is precisely why, Madam President, I would like to conclude by saying that the bill was very good. However, in the follow-up motion that we have put forward and in the reservation that has been made, we in the Center Party have put forward some points of view that we have on some minor issues in relation to precisely the definition and how the way forward should and can be. That is why, Madam President, I would like to support the reservation contained in the report. Let's get behind it.
i-8aXkmNxBBSq7oPxy4bDstZ	Madam President, I would like We are dealing with the Committee on Transport's report, which also includes the Government's proposal to implement amendments to the directive on environmental requirements for the procurement of cars and certain public transport services. In this case, I would like to say that the committee is in fact fully in agreement with the constitutional changes required for the implementation of the European Parliament and Council directive on amendments aimed at promoting clean and energy efficient road transport vehicles. This means that Member States should be able to ensure that contracts awarded following the procurement of vehicles and certain services, including public transport, meet the requirements of a minimum proportion of environmentally friendly vehicles, so-called minimum targets. The committee shares the view of the Center Party and the Government that consideration should be given to the actual climate impact of a fuel from a life cycle perspective and that sustainable biofuels are a climate-friendly option in many procurement situations. Only a few weeks ago in committee, when we examined the report of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, we stated that the regulation on environmental and road safety requirements for government cars is aimed at promoting the use of environmentally friendly and safe cars. We also pointed out that the government has announced that gas cars will continue to be classified as environmental cars by state authorities. The committee has not changed its mind here in any way. Especially against this background, we find that there is no basis for taking any action in response to the motion request of the Center Party. This legislative proposal is the implementation of an EU directive. There is no possibility for us in Sweden to change the definitions contained in the directive, but this is regulated in the EU's own directive. This means, for example, that a clean light car may emit a maximum of 50 grams of CO2 per kilometre and that 38.5% of the total public procurement must meet this limit value. The requirements for clean vehicles, as defined here, therefore apply only to a small part of the total procurement of vehicles and transport services. The committee notes that it will still be possible to procure both gas-powered light vehicles and buses using HVO 100. Therefore, Madam President, I would like to support the proposal in the committee's report TU14 and therefore also support the Government's proposal to amend the directive on environmental requirements for the procurement of cars and certain public transport services.
i-AeJGQR4Fmc68xcPZ4MN1JA	Madam President, I would like Russia's despicable war in Ukraine continues. The Western world has come together almost unanimously to help and support Ukraine, but efforts must continue. No democratic state can rest until Ukraine is free and independent again. Ukraine's business is ours. Madam President, I would like A tremendous amount of Ukrainians have been forced to flee houses and homes. Many of them are on the run within Ukraine, but many have also crossed the border with the EU. The situation has led to the first activation of the EU's mass refugee directive. This is a truly extraordinary measure whereby persons from Ukraine are offered an immediate and temporary residence and work permit in the EU Member States. Since the Russian invasion of Ukraine began, over 34 000 Ukrainians have sought refuge in Sweden. The Migration Agency estimates that the main scenario is that 80 000 Ukrainians may seek protection in Sweden before the end of the year, but it can also, in the higher scenario, be as many as 200 000. The issue of housing is therefore a crucial point in how we can deal with this in a practical but also dignified way. That is why we welcome Moderates that the government has put forward proposals for action in the field of planning and construction in response to the invasion of Ukraine. The Government may already provide for derogations from certain planning and construction rules under current legislation if this is necessary for the rapid organisation of housing for asylum seekers. This provision was added during the migration crisis in 2015. The only problem is that by definition migrants from Ukraine are not asylum seekers, as they are covered by the mass refugee directive. The intention of the authorisation provision for asylum seekers from 2015 must, of course, be considered to have been that it should also apply to such a situation that we currently face. Of course, the authorisation must therefore be adjusted and extended to situations where the organisation of housing in the event of large influxes of migrants covered by the mass refugee directive is required. Madam President, I would like However, this legislative product has also been developed after a rapid procedure. It cannot be excluded that further changes to the authorisation may be necessary in order to achieve fully effective regulation. We Moderates, together with our friends in the Christian Democrats, therefore want the government to review the design of the current authorisation and then leave the legislative proposals that may be needed to prevent further forced changes and exceptions in the event of a new unforeseen crisis. That is why I am in favour of the reservation contained in the report.
i-XWqeDn2bS1Mor5xXywcaBE	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the CU report36 to be approved. Russia's brutal and ruthless invasion of Ukraine has forced millions of people to flee for their lives and leave their homes for protection. The judgment of history will fall heavily on Vladimir Putin and the political leadership of Russia. They are ultimately responsible for the war, for the war crimes and for the attacks on children and civilians in Ukraine. Madam President, I would like Many Ukrainians are refugees in their own country, but a large number of women and children have sought protection in other European countries, including Sweden. We don't know how many people need to find shelter here. It depends entirely on what development will be like in the future. For us Social Democrats, it is important to mark hard against Russia's invasion, including through strong sanctions, but also to support Ukraine's independence and support its population and protect Sweden's security. This government bill is an important step in helping Ukrainians fleeing to Sweden to temporarily get somewhere to live, but also in order to ensure that we in Sweden are able to do this. In order to be able to quickly arrange temporary accommodation for those who come to Sweden, the authorisation given to the government after the 2015 major refugee reception is to be extended to those who are subject to a decision on temporary protection under the EU's mass refugee directive. It is a balancing process to give a government more powers at the expense of the influence of parliament and municipal self-government. We Social Democrats believe, however, that the intended adjustment of the authorisation in the Planning and Construction Act is well balanced between the government's increased powers, the influence of the Riksdag and municipal self-government. It's about us meeting our commitments and our security. It is therefore also gratifying that a united committee is behind the report. Madam President, I would like Once again, I would like to support the proposal in the CU36.
i-M7yhVxQkBc94YTr23ao2fD	Madam President, I would like Russia's war in Ukraine is expected to last for a long time. Ever since February, we have witnessed people having their homes destroyed or forced away by the occupying power, supported by separatists who do not hesitate to kill, torture or rape civilians. 7.7 million Ukrainians have now fled their homes. Of them 5.1 million have left the country. The EU assumes that 12 million will flee. This means that 300 000 may end up in our country in a very short time. Many want and try to return home. But as long as the occupation goes on, with the killing and destruction of buildings and infrastructure, we can count on people not being able to return to their homes. Madam President, I would like Today, we are going to decide on an exemption rule in the Plan and Construction Act which already exists and has been applied, but which is not adapted to the situation that prevails when the mass refugee directive is applied. Those who have fled to Sweden and to whom we are opening our hearts now do not need to seek asylum, as those affected by other Russian or Russian-supported attacks on civilians, for example in Syria, have had to do. As pointed out in the Conservatives' and Christian Democrats' reservation, which is good but which I do not support, it is likely that similar situations may arise and that we in Sweden must always be prepared to receive and accommodate people in need who cannot return home. These could be natural disasters, serious accidents, political and democratic unrest or war in our neighbourhood. But I assume, Madam President, that the government will take this on board. I support the proposal in the report. We can count on a long time to rebuild Ukraine, even if we and other countries in the West are happy to help with that. Many who have moved will want to stay, seek a job, continue to educate themselves, start a family and establish themselves in Sweden. The Statistical Office recently presented a scenario that points to the possibility that our population will increase by 1.7 million already to 2040. This, Madam President, is something for which we must be prepared. We need to work towards further reforms of the housing market and a significantly increased build-up of new solutions.
i-34JmThGwdeJt7QgiKmgKWc	Madam President, I would like In 2016, a new law was introduced that gave the government the opportunity to introduce emergency regulations in the Planning and Construction Act in case of mass flight to Sweden. It gives the government great powers to make regulations on exceptions to building regulations in order to be able to quickly arrange housing. For example, buildings may be exempted from land requirements, building permits, demolition permits and location. The law makes it possible for municipalities to quickly use and modify existing buildings and premises that can be used as accommodation and to quickly develop different simpler housing, such as modular buildings. The Director General of the Finnish Immigration Service has presented an upper scenario in which over 200 000 Ukrainians seek refuge in Sweden. At the same time, the Finnish Immigration Service estimates that up to 168 000 accommodations may be needed. That is a lot, and it takes a lot of effort to do this. Minister of Migration Anders Ygeman recently first announced that the Government would review the reliefs in the Planning and Construction Act. But the memo focused on temporary and simple tents in the form of tents. Madam President, I would like This was strange and strange, because it was insufficient. The government first chose not to use the existing law that came to 2016 fully, but contented itself with simpler constructions of tents. It was strange that we in the Liberals would have to press for the current government to understand how to use the tool they had in the emergency clause. Working urgently seems to be a problem in this particular area. However, it is important to work urgently on such a mass flight. In 2015, we were many who saw how municipalities and migrations labored with temporary arrival homes during that refugee wave. Unfortunately, the war in Ukraine seems to be long drawn. It is mainly women who bring their children but also unaccompanied children. We need to strive for dignity, not the lowest possible level. Nor can we simply appeal to civil society, even if it does a great deal of work. The state needs to use as many powerful tools as you can and power with. We therefore welcome the fact that the report includes the construction of simpler modular housing that can last for up to three years, and the time may need to be extended. It's going to take a long time before you can return to Ukraine if you're even up to it, if you want it, if you can. When there is hopefully peace, family members can also come here in the form of wounded men who have fought. Dignified housing is important. We can't put up plywood records in old car halls like 2015 at home in Jönköping and let people stay there for far too long. It's not worthy of the one running from war. We still have a housing shortage after almost eight years with a red-green government. That is why I ask the government right now: what is to be done after these three years? What housing should you offer? Are you on your toes? We in the Liberals are on our toes. We think, think and turn around on stones to see how we can deal with the housing problem when these three years have passed and these simple homes are no longer suitable to live in. There should be absolutely no tents. Ukraine will take a long time to build up. We must not be slow. It can't be too little. We need to get off our toes.
i-Lq1MKV9mVWXYMzDWqDw6DZ	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask you to accept reservation 34 in paragraph 16. What we are discussing today is the Tax Procedure Act and the National Accounts Act. Members of Parliament have written many motions on this during the general period of exercise, and that is what we are discussing today. A functioning tax system in which everyone is doing the right thing is a prerequisite for the Swedish model, and the vast majority are doing the right thing. However, tax evasion and tax evasion occur and involve huge costs for Sweden and other countries and withdraw resources from the common welfare. Today we were able to read about the Swedish Tax Agency's pilot review of food bids and home deliveries, and it shows that there are extensive and conscious errors and that there are complex arrangements with platform companies and other things, partly abroad. Measures taken by the government in the EU and internationally are, for example, stricter requirements for tax advisors and automatic exchange of information between countries that no longer make it possible to hide assets abroad. The Government has given the Swedish Tax Agency increased opportunities to work law enforcement, and the agency has received increased resources since 2016. The government also made sure that we decided on a reverse charge on the turnover of mobile phones. The aim is to prevent large-scale VAT fraud leading to large tax losses. A new investigation was also launched in December to prevent companies from being used as a crime tool. Some measures comply with international directives that Sweden has been involved in producing. Others are indigenous and have been implemented on their own initiative by the government. Madam President, I would like It is also of great importance from a societal point of view to strengthen the control and quality of civil records. It is a priority for the government to break segregation, combat crime and take back control of welfare. It is essential that it is in order in our registers when errors there have spill-over effects throughout society and can be used to exploit the welfare society, to welfare crime and organised crime. This is totally unacceptable. Registers should not be used to maintain a shadow society. We know that there is a population register error of around 2 – 3 percent. In the past, the government has taken several steps to address this. Among other things, the Swedish Tax Agency has been given the opportunity to control residence, and it has also carried out a reintroduction of civil registration offences in 2018. The Government has also introduced a non-confidential provision between the Population Accounts and the Tax Unit within the Swedish Tax Agency. In addition, the Government has commissioned the Swedish Tax Agency, in collaboration with a number of voluntary municipalities, to work in two pilot projects on population registration. One was also carried out with eleven other authorities and concerned access to incorrect censuses linked to organised crime. The second is to develop methods and ways of working to counteract misreporting and to be reported before the summer. The Government also tightens up the requirements for quality in population records by means of a bill that has just been submitted to the Riksdag. This includes a proposal to use biometric methods to strengthen control when moving to Sweden. Curiously, the committee, on the initiative of the opposition, has also tabled such a proposal, in other words, despite the fact that the government has already submitted such a proposal to Parliament for a decision. The question of biometric checks for coordination numbers is now being prepared at the Government Office. The bill on population records also includes other quality improvements. This includes increased possibilities for the Swedish Tax Agency to carry out checks at the home and a measure to overcome the problem that a person misbooks at an address – something that is perceived as very embarrassing for the person who lives at the address. It will now be easier to remove this person from the housing address. In the debate, we will hear the Moderates and other parties say that a census is what needs to be done in order to overcome the problems of misinformation in population records. That the whole of Sweden's population should be counted should be the meaning of this term, and I assume that it is also intended that the settlement should be controlled. But let me remind you that 97% of Sweden's population is estimated to be in the right population register. Why the Tax Agency should use resources to count and control the residence of all residents rather than direct resources to where the problems and risks are greatest, which are included in the pilot projects I mentioned earlier, are difficult to understand. The best and most effective methods are those to be used, and it is difficult to see a census as an effective method when resources are needed to count the entire population, regardless of whether it is partly digital. In addition, it only gives a picture of the situation just when the bill takes place. It is better to continuously focus efforts where the problems are greatest and to work preventively. With regard to the coordination number, the government made earlier decisions on a rapid track of action pending the investigation into population records. At the turn of the year, the Swedish Tax Agency was able to restrain more than 700 000 coordination numbers through this amendment. This means that two thirds of all coordination numbers have been closed or have been declared dormant. In addition, the new law imposes more requirements on those requesting the allocation of coordination numbers, clearer identification requirements and contact address requirements. In addition, a substantial extension of the data obligation for virtually all authorities came to report suspected errors in the population register to the Swedish Tax Agency. Madam President, I would like Another area in the report is human resources workers in various sectors such as construction and car workshops. The aim of human resources workers is to help reduce the incidence of undeclared work and also to create a healthier competitive environment. It is really needed, because the construction industry is one of the industries that contributes most in absolute terms to the black economy, and the development is not in the right direction at all. When the Swedish Tax Agency was with the Swedish Work Environment Agency last year on unannounced inspections at about eighty car workshops, car washes and other car care companies around the country, the controls revealed dangerous work environment, illegal labor and suspected exploitation of people. So human resources are needed, and this means that the Swedish Tax Agency has the opportunity to make physical visits to various businesses. Physical visits are an important element for the Swedish Tax Agency's ability to work against the existence of undeclared work. This is shown time and again by joint government reports. If controls can be automated more, it is of course welcome. It should be easy to do the right thing, just as it should be when we pay taxes.
i-DgpDigtoSjeRGhCGXCAEW9	Madam President, I would like I can answer Anna Vikström right away. We're going to talk about a national census. In today's Sweden, it is highly unclear how many people are actually in our country. The Swedish Tax Agency estimates that about 200 000 people are written at incorrect addresses in Sweden. No one knows exactly how extensive the problems are. A census that the state does not have control of will cost taxpayers a great deal of money and make it difficult to help those who really need the support of society most. Population registration data are linked in Sweden with a number of obligations but also quite a number of rights, such as access to large parts of the welfare and security systems. Criminals today use false addresses to gain benefits and welfare services to which they are not really entitled. One of the more comprehensive risks identified by government investigations is that data recorded in the census database do not reflect actual circumstances and that these incorrect data subsequently form the basis for decisions on payments from our welfare systems. As the President may recall, the Gothenburg newspaper published articles showing Swedes who joined the terrorist organisation IS and who also financed their journeys and livelihoods in various ways at the expense of Swedish taxpayers. One family continued to receive various contributions of nearly $15,000 a year after leaving the country. Another family received more than a quarter of a million dollars in various contributions after leaving the country. A well-known Swedish IS terrorist continued to receive money from the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and housing allowance, after leaving the country. Yes, we have the person who you know was Minister of Defence in Iraq at the same time as support was sent from Sweden, after he had left the country. Madam President, I would like It is clear to me that Sweden needs better control of who actually lives in the country and not just people registered. Because we also have the reverse problem, with people who actually live illegally in Sweden without being registered. It's well known. The fact that a wanted person without a residence permit is found in connection with Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson's residence lightnings the shadow society that is spreading in Sweden. A heavy case for Magdalena Andersson. But what happened points to a more serious problem than Magdalena Andersson's double standards of personal responsibility. It is the fact that the government has simply lost control of the shadow society that has been allowed to spread in recent years. Madam President, I would like Sweden has previously had a tradition of carrying out censuses, like many other countries. Sweden, on the other hand, has not carried out a proper census since 1990. It is a census that took place almost every ten years during the 20th century. It is a census that would enable the state to better combat crime, tools to curb the emergence of exclusion and provide important knowledge in the work to combat overcrowding. The shadow society that is emerging in Sweden enables cynical exploitation of people. Census errors also contribute to the exploitation of our common welfare, where money disappears into the pocket of fraudsters and criminals. We do not know how much money is involved, but it is estimated to be around 20 billion a year. This corresponds in round throws 40 000 employees in elderly care. Madam President, I would like The fact that we had a majority in the Tax Committee to carry out a national census was certainly not a day too early. Unfortunately, it looks like we do not have it in this House now. However, we have gathered a majority in order for the government to return with proposals that ensure that biometric data is checked in connection with an identity check in public records by a person who has moved to Sweden and the same to get a coordination number. These are both important tools to enable the state to combat crime, tools to curb the emergence of exclusion and to provide important knowledge in the work to combat overcrowding. Madam President, I would like We have a government that for too long denied the problems of shadow societies. The government has soon had eight years in power, and nothing has happened. Once again, we, a majority in Parliament, will do the work of the government. The fact that the Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party reserve themselves against both a national census and secure biometric data is, to say the least, astounding. The fact that the Center Party now chooses to support the government in their reservation on national censuses is more than surprising. Why stop a census when welfare fraudsters and welfare fraudsters use the wrongs to take the welfare money? Why should people be able to stay in the country almost without the risk of detection? Helena Vilhelmsson, as I know is a wise person, my hope is for you today to press the green button so that we can put an end to welfare fraudsters and welfare fraudsters. Madam President, I would like I am convinced that everyone in this House basically knows what needs to be done and what measures are effective. It is about what is needed to combat crime and cheating, but also to help the most vulnerable. What do you say to social democrats, left-wing parties, environmentalists and center parties to all the people who work and toil, pay high taxes and suffer from growing insecurity? At the same time, the state pays subsidies to people who do not even live here or who otherwise use the system on the wrong grounds. Why turn a blind eye to this insecurity and the human suffering of shadow society? For me, it is both morally reprehensible and deeply unfair for all honest taxpayers to be robbed of the security and safety nets to which they are entitled. When the government claims to lift every stone to curb cheating and crime, it echoes more and more hollowly. They have soon had eight years to lift stones, so far it seems to be more small stones that have been lifted.
i-SeaUxHjf92J8RTkg2MceVD	Madam President, I would like The SkU17 report deals with tax procedures and civil records. I thought I'd start by talking a little bit about the census section. It is of the utmost importance that the population register essentially reflects the reality and that those covered by the system have accurate data. This is a prerequisite, among other things, for the functioning of welfare systems, and civil records also form the basis for where you have the right to vote and where to tax. It is also the basis for community planning. But in recent decades we have unfortunately lost control over who is actually within Sweden's borders. The Swedish Tax Agency has previously mentioned the figure 200 000 people who would be wrongly registered in Sweden, but they also admit that the number of darkness can be very large. They have also indicated that there are indications that between 30 and 50% of newly arrived migrants have indicated more than one identity or at least the wrong identity. Earlier for a number of years, we saw EU migrants sitting as beggars in many Swedish cities. Many of these were not registered in any way according to existing regulations. The same applies to the thousands of Afghan men who received exceptions from all the rules and were allowed to stay in Sweden, partly because they acquired illegal population register addresses. The problems of ignorance about who is in Sweden have been revealed because of the long-established migration policy. They culminated in the migration crisis in 2015 and the large wave of migrants that has come to Sweden since then. For decades Sweden has had large-scale immigration where many people in the country are unfortunately not registered or registered, at least not in the right way. Others are written in Sweden but are in another country and receive social benefits there even though they have left Sweden. The previous speaker listed a number of such examples. One of the most comical was Iraq's former Minister of Defence, who received grants even though he had moved from Sweden. This is an unreasonable and dangerous development. Sweden has lost control of the situation. In this way, we have shed both wealth resources and the capacity of the rule of law and have contributed to escalating crime. This has led to the creation of parallel societies, as we saw, among other things, in Easter. What needs to be done is not only to bring order to the reception and registration of new arrivals, on which most of the proposals are now focused, but also to bring order to the existing population register chaos. Through outreach, we need to find out who has come here, who is still here, who they are and whether or not they should be allowed to stay in Sweden at all. One aspect of this may be to carry out a census in Sweden, and I would therefore like to endorse the proposal for a declaration presented in the report. I would also like to support the second proposal for a declaration, which requires the government to come back with proposals to ensure that biometric data are checked in connection with an identity check. The main problem with population records is precisely that foreigners whose identity has never been guaranteed, where some have declared false or multiple identities, can abuse welfare systems. It costs Swedish society many billions each year. A number that arrived a few years ago was SEK 18 billion annually. We recently heard a perhaps more updated figure: 20 billion. But even here, the number of darkness is probably quite large. This is about the population register section of this report, which is also about tax procedures. I was going to get into that now, Madam President. In its report, the Swedish National Audit Office noted Sweden's tax agreements with other countries – the effects of the government's work that Swedish governments have neglected their efforts to keep Sweden's bilateral tax agreements updated for more than a decade. This report came in 2010. Four years later, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise stated that nothing had improved, but rather the opposite. The bilateral tax agreements aim to mitigate the effects of international double taxation in order to create a good competitive environment for the export industry, to encourage investment between states and to prevent tax evasion. It is therefore of great importance, not least for the export industry, that Sweden's network of bilateral tax agreements is well updated and that we do not continue to lag behind in this area. It may suffice that another country has made changes to its own tax legislation to make an existing agreement with Sweden obsolete. When the Swedish Democrats have pointed out the problem, the government has seemed reluctant to discuss the issue, but I would still like to raise it. We also consider it important to re-implement a review of the tax agreements that Sweden has signed to see what needs there are for renewal. Sweden has worked for a long time on the implementation of global partnerships in order to strengthen the tax capacity of developing countries. Sweden has invested resources in building up developing countries' opportunities to tax their own economy. After a period of time, it may be appropriate to evaluate the development of work on tax capacity. Which countries are now independent of a functioning market economy and their own public sector financed by taxes which they themselves manage to collect? On this basis, Sweden needs in future to place greater emphasis on negotiations on international tax treaties with developing countries in order to avoid double taxation, where we more clearly require a certain standard of tax administration's ability to enforce taxes in order for an agreement to be signed. Sweden's tax treaty policy is needed to strengthen the competitiveness of the export industry and to require developing countries to increase their autonomy in terms of their own tax capacity. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats have 11 reservations in the report. I would ask you to accept reservation number 10.
i-EqQ4qxVdFPsa7Jui8H7e61	Madam President, I would like This motion for a resolution contains many important issues – from something called representative responsibility and legal certainty in tax cases to the law on cash registers and human resources, population records, censuses and the use of biometric data, and not least, the protection of population records for persons living with protected identity. I will start by talking about the latter: people who live with different forms of protected identity. During the coronapademia, we have been isolated and felt limited in existence. It has even been questioned in this House whether the decisions we have taken have been in accordance with the Constitution. Now the restrictions have eased. Finally, we get to travel almost anywhere we want and meet whoever we want! But, Madam President, this does not apply to all citizens of Sweden. I'm talking about women who are forced to live hidden because their life and health are threatened by a man they've had a relationship with before. They live with these restrictions every day, every hour and every minute. Women's rights are ignored when the freedom of movement of violent men often outweighs the security of women and children. It is women who must flee and hide, while men still have the freedom to seek out or otherwise contact the woman and thus continue the threats and harassment. There are examples where municipalities have been forced to provide information on whether or not a hidden woman works within the municipality, even though she has had a form of protected identity. The principle of public access thus outweighs the legal certainty of women. The Gender Equality Agency has been working on the issue and today submitted a report on how it has been possible for our state authorities, including the Swedish Tax Agency, to disclose protected identities and thus put women at risk of their lives. Until it is resolved, the Center Party will be on the side of vulnerable women, and I therefore call for the approval of reservation 42. Madam President, I would like When it comes to a point in the report called the People's Recording of Children at Two Addresses, it is an issue that the Center Party has been pursuing for a long time. However, it is not necessarily a question of children having double registered addresses. The point of our exercise is that government mail should automatically be sent to the child's both guardians, who in turn can be registered at different addresses. Today, such mail is only sent to the child's resident parent, even if both parents are guardians. The provision of government mail and mail from health care, preschool, school, etc. to both guardians can also promote a better dialogue between parents around the child. Madam President, I would like Then there's the old good guy, the humane. In some sectors there are major advantages to the system of human resources. The construction industry needs support in the form of rules and controls that will put an end to fraud and organised crime. There is trafficking in human beings – we know that – which must be stopped. In this case, the human resources worker can be an effective tool for employers to keep track, together with trade unions, of who is on a construction site and that they have the right protective equipment and receive the salary to which they are entitled. However, the system of human resources has been extended several times since its introduction, by 2018 to include, for example, all persons living under the same roof where business is conducted. They shall register if they contribute in any way to the activity. The fact that an owner of a business and his family are subject to the requirement to register in the staff league shows an incomprehension, I mean, for how a small family business operates where you live and work in the company 24 hours a day. The system of civil servants has been evaluated on several occasions, not least by us in the Committee on Taxation. Now the Center Party believes that it is time for a real change. The government needs to come back with concrete proposals on how to change the system of human resources, to simplify business and to reduce the number of companies hit by the system. In a first step, the said enlargement from 2018 needs to be abolished. The regulatory burden must be reduced. It is important for small companies that want to develop and invest in their business. They must be able to ask their eight-year-old to go out with the kitchen trash without risking sometimes petty absurd fines. Madam President, I would like Today's rules of representation are widely criticised. An investigation has made suggestions for improvements, but we do not yet see any government initiatives to address the problems. The rules have a bankruptcy effect. An entity that is in a temporary liquidity crisis is automatically subject to representative liability. In order to avoid personal liability, the Board of Directors must request the company's bankruptcy. This means that many companies that may temporarily not have the means to pay their debts are called for bankruptcy in order for the board to avoid personal liability. Basically viable companies can then actually be forced to close down. In addition, the rules have a deterrent effect on entrepreneurship. The standard of action is very sharp. The Board of Directors shall be aware of all due dates for tax liabilities and shall also verify that all tax liabilities are correct. This makes it difficult to recruit external board members for companies. The liability for payment is also joint and several for the Board and CEO, which means that the action can be brought against the person who has the best payment options regardless of the degree of personal debt.
i-XLtabQqYQjkrPFukS7xAvm	Madam President, I would like With regard to census and biometric data, the Center Party thinks it is a good thing that there is now a announcement on the increased use of biometric data. As has been said, the committee will soon be dealing with a government proposal dealing with this very issue, but unfortunately that proposal only proposes that biometric data should be used for population records in connection with the assignment of personal identity numbers, not coordination numbers. That's too bad. The Center Party believes that the government must come back quickly on this issue, and it is therefore good that Parliament should clarify this in an announcement already today. On the other hand, we do not believe that a national census, as it has been proposed so far, is the answer to the problems of organised crime associated with incorrect censuses. It is true that no traditional census has been made with surveys, comparisons and interviews since 1990. But there have been censuses, register-based ones. Following a change in legislation, it has also been possible to make in-depth registrations and compare them. In order to escape privacy reasons, a change of law was made. Register-based censuses are carried out in several countries in Europe. It is no different or unusual system. The Swedish Tax Agency has also carried out an in-depth review in selected areas in order to address fraud in civil records and to tackle organised crime following the reinforcement of the budget in 2021, which was also negotiated by the Center Party in a pilot project. I now turn to Helena Bouveng, who I also think is a very wise person, and others in the hall who are also wise and sensible: I and the Center Party believe that it is using our resources in the best way to, for example after next week's discussion and exchange of ideas with the Swedish Tax Agency during our visit there, actually look at how we use our resources best. However it may be, I cannot see from the proposals that exist today that it is wise to ask the Swedish Tax Agency to organise questionnaires, interview questions and mailings to all Swedish citizens in order to get to this crime. But let us return to that discussion when we actually discuss this in connection with the bill next week and – I am absolutely convinced – future proposals from both us and the government.
i-AAMJRvYcKoZEaEfxMNPM9v	Madam President, I would like Today, Parliament has the opportunity to decide on two important improvements that can correct some of the systemic errors criminals use to usurp money to which they are not entitled. On the one hand, we can decide that a census should be carried out, and on the other hand we can decide that biometric data should be checked when a person moves to Sweden or is assigned a coordination number. Biometric data, for example, means fingerprints. The purpose of both of these proposals is to increase the control of who is in Sweden and where they are. The Swedish Tax Agency has previously estimated the number of errors in the population register at around 200 000. But it is an estimate; how many errors are actually involved, no one really knows. However, tackling this is absolutely necessary because criminals use the shortcomings to obtain benefits and allowances to which they are not really entitled. In the same way that no one knows exactly how many errors there are in the population register, there is no one who really knows how large the amounts are. However, the figure was estimated a few years ago at SEK 18 billion – SEK 18 billion each year! So this is a really big problem. We Christian Democrats were out early demanding a census to start correcting these problems. We have also called for biometric data to be used to ensure that the same person cannot use multiple coordination numbers. Unfortunately, it seems that only the proposal to use biometric data for the allocation of coordination numbers will receive support in Parliament today. However, we Christian Democrats will of course continue to work towards making all the measures necessary to put these problems in order. Madam President, I would like The report we are discussing today is broad and contains a range of issues that are important for our companies. One issue that is concerned is the legal certainty of the entrepreneur, who, in some cases, is currently completely inferior. It is a fundamental principle of our legal system to be innocent until proven guilty. You also have the right to appeal a judgment and have it examined in at least one higher instance, and judgments are not enforced until they have become final. These are important principles in our legal system, yet they do not always apply. In tax cases, the scheme is such that an entrepreneur has to pay a custodial debt even when awaiting a decision by the administrative courts. Thus, an entrepreneur can get the house foreclosed and then be acquitted in a higher court. There are deferment rules, but they are limited and applied very restrictively. There is a need to introduce more generous deferral rules for tax liabilities during the duration of a legal process. And there must be a great deal of reason not to grant respite. That is why we Christian Democrats believe that the deferral rules need to be reviewed. Madam President, I would like In 2008, the state property tax was abolished by the then alliance government. That decision removed a major factor of uncertainty in the lives of many people. The property tax was unpredictable and taxed values that were not matched by current income. As a result, many people experienced growing anxiety about the possibility of staying in their house. If a residential area grew in popularity, prices rose, and so did taxes for all residents in the area whether they planned to sell or stay and whatever income they had. The property tax increased socio-economic segregation by forcing those who could no longer afford the tax to move. The property tax was replaced by a lower municipal property tax, but despite this, the rateable value system is still in place. This also leaves the structure that could be used to re-establish the old real estate tax system. From time to time, the discussion of the reintroduction of property tax flares up. It is very distressing and creates uncertainty for many people. We Christian Democrats say flatly no to a new property tax. We will never contribute to the restoration of such a thing. Instead, we want to completely abolish the rateable value system so that it becomes much more difficult to reintroduce property tax. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to endorse our reservation 3.
i-Axde2bEGVs9KdZwvqY39ws	Madam President, I would like Today's report covers various aspects of fiscal policy, but I, too, will focus particularly on the issue of population censuses. I do it for a variety of reasons. The last time a census was carried out in Sweden was 30 years ago. Society has undergone major changes during the 30 years of both good and evil. For us Liberals, it is important that the state carry out its commitments to individuals on the basis of their rights. But if these rights are to be secured and society takes its share of responsibility for our common social contract, there must be functioning societal functions. This presupposes that we know who lives in Sweden, who has the right to stay here legally and how many with expulsion decisions have actually left the country. If we do not have this knowledge, neither the police, the security services, the Social Security Agency or the social services can carry out their commitments. The Swedish Tax Agency today estimates that there are some 200 000 people in Sweden who are not registered in the register. It is a serious social problem that the state does not have control over the census. Madam President, I would like The problem is serious for two different reasons. Firstly, it is serious because we have major exclusion problems in our socially vulnerable areas today. Over half a million people live in areas where the rule of law has been suppressed. We saw this not least at Easter weekend's horrifying riots in cities around the country. It was something that we have never seen and which is totally unacceptable and must be fought with vigour. Today, overcrowding is also very widespread, school results are failing, unemployment is high and crime is widespread and captures a great many young people. In addition, Swedish gender equality is subject to exceptions in many of the exclusion areas. That is why I was a little surprised when I heard Helena Vilhelmsson point out the problems of gender equality and at the same time choose to support the Government's proposals when there is a unique opportunity to actually get a new census so that we can get to this shadow society which affects women and girls in particular, not least those with a background of foreign births. I also noted that the Member of the Social Democrats questioned the need for a national census. This shows that despite having been in power for eight years, you once again choose to turn your back and look in another direction as shadow society grows. You put your head in the sand. That is a very important reason why we need to have a change of power this autumn and overcome many of the problems that affect many of the people living in these areas. Secondly, Madam President, we have a widespread problem with our security systems being used by criminals. The result is insecurity throughout society when billions are paid out on wrong grounds each year and after wrong decisions. If we are to tackle organised crime, we need order and order in civil records. Our security systems are there for people in vulnerable situations to receive the help they are entitled to, not for criminal gangs to be fattened with money they are not entitled to. We cannot accept the shadow society that is just spreading. People work, work and pay high taxes. Their confidence in the state and our security systems is failing when tax money is not going to the right ends. It helps to undermine trust. Madam President, I would like Another issue that we have to deal with today is the issue of giving the Tax Agency more tools to tackle crime. We believe that biometric data should be included in the issue of coordination numbers and in population records when someone moves to Sweden. That is why we also supported the committee initiative which today has a majority. As I said, I note that the Center Party does not support the issue of a national census. One of these, I mean, is a prerequisite for us to get to grips with many of the problems. This does not address all the problems that exist in society, but enabling biometric data and initiating a new census are two important steps in the right direction. I have not had time to touch on other parts of this report, and I thought I would make some requests as well. Of course, I support all the Liberals' reservations, but in order to gain time in this House when we vote, I would like to call for the Liberals' reservation 30, which deals with the evaluation of the legislation on human resources. I would like to conclude by also calling for the approval of the joint reservation 15 by the Moderates, the Centers, the KD and the Liberals, which deals with representative responsibility. If there was no one in favour of this, I would like to do so.
i-HpJ25x156rda1maoswonst	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for approval of the Social Democratic reservation, No 6, concerning the House of Sweden in Taipei. Madam President, I would like Mankind entered the new millennium with great hopes. Democratic breakthroughs had taken place in former Eastern Europe, southern Africa and Latin America. In many developing countries, strong economic development seemed to be underway to eliminate hunger and poverty. The nuclear threat seemed to have diminished, and strong forces promoted peace and reconciliation. Many of the hopes, however, have been dashed in recent years. And although we have seen a great deal of economic development, we also see how democracies are faltering and being eroded, how the Cold War and the nuclear threat seem to have reappeared, and how the climate crisis is causing more and more natural disasters and driving people on the run. On the morning of 24 February, we also woke up to the announcement that Russia had begun an invasion of Ukraine. It is an invasion that is unprovoked, illegal and indefensible. Sweden condemns the Russian invasion of Ukraine in the strongest possible terms. We are united in our solidarity with Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. Russia must immediately cease all military operations and unconditionally withdraw all its forces from Ukraine. Russia's armed attack is a flagrant violation of international law and of the European security order. It creates great suffering for the Ukrainian people and threatens international peace and security. Responsibility for this lies solely with the Russian political leadership. But regardless of this, there are two important things for man: the hope and the will to try to do something and change the situation. Madam President, I would like I will devote the rest of my speech to another occupation, another suffering: the Israeli occupation of Palestine and the enormous suffering of the Palestinians for many years. Madam President, I would like All human beings are born free and equal in value and rights. This is the first sentence of the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. But that is not the case for the Palestinians who live under Israeli occupation or in refugee camps outside their home country. The Palestinians have a country of origin. Palestine exists even if Israel does not want to admit it. The Palestinians are denied in Israel, occupied in the West Bank and imprisoned in Gaza. The occupation in the West Bank is in its 55th year. This means that hardly anyone under the age of 60 remembers what it's like to live freely, in freedom. Amnesty has spoken out loud about what they see: D there is an apartheid system in Israel. In South Africa there were many white critics of Boernas apartheid. In Israel, too, there are many critics of the path that Israel has chosen. Just as for once white South Africa, there are only two possibilities for Israel: war or reconciliation. South Africa chose reconciliation. It was based on the establishment of a level playing field in a democratic state. Not everything was perfect or happy. South Africa is still struggling with the injustices and class differences of the past, but progress is still moving forward. I hope that Israel and Palestine will take the path of peace and reconciliation. Madam President, I would like It goes without saying that one should be able to criticise and condemn Israel's policy without being accused of anti-Semitism, just as one should be able to criticise and condemn the actions of other countries. It is absurd that people who stand for democracy and the equal value of all people and are opposed to racism and discrimination should be subjected to such accusations. It undermines the seriousness of precisely anti-Semitism when feminists and human rights fighters such as Margot Wallström and Emma Watson, from the films about Harry Potter, are accused of it. Those who are anti-Semites, who speak and act anti-Semitic, should be pointed out and accountable. But that is not the case with those people who come up with legitimate criticism of the apartheid system in Israel. We all have a responsibility to stand up for human dignity and human rights. It applies to our parties and to us as individuals. I took that responsibility when I demonstrated against Israel's war in Gaza, and I took the same responsibility in demonstrating in memory of the crystal night, against Nazism and against the crimes against humanity that the Jews were subjected to by the Nazis. Madam President, I would like Everyone has the right to security and to avoid discrimination. For those of us who defend democracy and the equal value of all people, it is therefore a duty to stop intolerance, racism and xenophobia. It not only threatens them with a different skin colour, other faith or other origins; it also threatens you and me and our whole open, democratic society. Madam President, I would like Ultimately, we're just human beings. Much more unites us than divides us — no matter where we come from and what culture or religion we have. We are human beings, and we share the hope and the will to try to do something to improve the situation, be it the invasion of Ukraine, the occupation of Palestine, the welfare, the climate or security. I would like to conclude by congratulating all the workers in our factories and in society on the first May celebration on Sunday. I would also like to conclude with Olof Palme's words: The most important thing is not where we come from, but where we are going.
i-TskxNnWrnMbNVJjKkxCVsW	Madam President, I would like We have to deal with a motion report that revolves around human rights in certain regions and countries. It mainly concerns the situation in Russia, the People's Republic of China and Iran. It is precisely the three states that have identified in their yearbook as the most active in carrying out intelligence activities in our own country. The problem for the citizens of regimes such as Russia, the People's Republic of China and Iran is that the regimes are carrying out extensive activities of the worst kind and with severe abuse as a result also in their respective countries. This is what is being addressed and dealt with with with about 150 requests from different parties. In this debate, the Moderates will have their main speech and the broad approach through the speech Margareta Cederfelt will hold a little later. She is well placed to do this through her mission as chairman of the entire organisation of the European Security Order, the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. I will only concentrate on one area in which the Parliament will today, by decision, support proposals from the Moderates but also other parties for a clearer presence through a House of Sweden in Taipei. In the context of a one-China policy, it is possible to have democratic elections, the rule of law, the exchange of power, free review media and economic prosperity in Chinese. All of this is in Taiwan. Freedom with real content can be pronounced on mandarin. Not everything is doomed to massive control on the basis of Beijing with a supreme Communist Party engaged in political persecution and abuse. Madam President, I would like The Swedish commitment to the world will be characterised by a coherent approach based on Sweden's interests and values. In any case, we shall defend Sweden's freedom, security and the right to self-determination and promote stability and security in our neighbourhood. Another interest is our common prosperity. Swedish competitiveness, innovation and trade are prerequisites for jobs and growth throughout our country. It is an end in itself that a smaller and highly trade-dependent country, which can compete with quality, defends all these strategic interests. It requires close cooperation with others and the possibility of maintaining flows with other countries and regions. The pandemic, the grounding in the Suez Canal and the current shortage of semiconductors show both the importance of these flows and how sensitive they are to conflicts and other disturbances. In its foreign and trade policy, Sweden should prioritise international cooperation for increased flow security. Madam President, I would like No one can deny that Taiwan stands for democracy and tolerance. It is an important lighthouse for this in Asia. It is in Sweden's interest to have a well-developed exchange with Taiwan in as many areas as possible. Therefore, increased contacts can be promoted through a clearer Swedish presence in Taipei in the form of a House of Sweden. Similarly, a number of countries inside and outside the EU have already acted. It will be a coherent and distinct blue-yellow presence. Madam President, I would like In times of military mulch around Taiwan, it is even more important to emphasise the value and strength of a functioning exchange – the strength of the existence of a democracy in Chinese but also the economic and scientific value. The understanding that significant products and that a very large percentage of the qualified semiconductor world needs for day-to-day production is based on a functioning flow to and from Taiwan. A reasonable step to take – within the framework of one-China policy – is therefore to support the idea of a House of Sweden. I regret that the Social Democrats, as the only party in this Parliament, have a reservation against the intended decision and are unable to help take this step. Madam President, I would like I therefore support the committee's proposal for a decision on a House of Sweden in Taipei and the rejection of reservation 6 by the Social Democrats.
i-DHTy6FFppTB4ctGrVVDYfo	Madam President, I would like Only a week ago, I had the honour to raise several of the issues we are discussing today, but then in the form of two interpellations to the Foreign Minister. Both made visible the need for a new foreign policy direction in Sweden, which not only uses fine words about democracy and human rights but also makes a reality of the ambitions they claim to represent. First of all, Madam President, it is absolutely distressing that the terrible, ruthless and indescribable repression that is taking place in large parts of China, not least in the province of Xinjiang, is not being made clear from a political point of view. The extensive evidence of concentration camps and the systematic abuse that is taking place today are a fact, and not just suspicion. They are well-known and well-documented despite denial by the Chinese Communist Party and extensive attempts to censor the facts. At the same time, the tone of politicians in the free world is often noticeably low, despite the fact that one of the world's most powerful countries is engaged in this barbarism. The terrible horrors that have struck various minorities in China have not least been exposed by the so-called Uigur tribunal, which has been monitoring the treatment of the Uigur people in Xinjiang. People have systematically gathered to be channeled into dreaded concentration camps, based solely on which ethnic group they have been born into. There they have been subjected to physical and mental torture, rape, sterilisation and forced indoctrination. New Chinese police recruits have also been sent to the province according to testimony to cause as much damage as possible to the minority, and according to the testimony there were no limits to what they were allowed to do. Madam President, I would like It is not only Uighurs who suffer oppression. We have seen widespread abuse of both falungong supporters and Tibetans, as well as Christians and other minorities. Perhaps the most disgusting testimony we've ever heard concerns the ruthless organ harvest. People who, according to the Chinese Communist Party, have been born by the wrong parents risk being imprisoned and then murdered because the Chinese state sees a value in stealing and selling their organs. If they are not slaughtered just before this theft, they die during or shortly after the procedure, which often occurs without stunning. This is an economic bonus for the Communist Party which nevertheless sees a number of ethnic groups as undesirable. The absolute minimum we can expect from the government in this context is that it clearly condemns the state-sanctioned mass assaults. In addition, the government should work to ensure that an independent international review of the numerous abuses of the communist dictatorship involving different minorities is carried out and that EU-wide sanctions are applied to those responsible for these abuses. Madam President, I would like One of the issues of foreign policy that is very close to my heart is that of Taiwan. For this very reason, it is extremely gratifying that we now have a majority in parliament behind us to create a House of Sweden in Taipei, and I can only regret that the Social Democrats are holding back the decision. In their reservation, the Social Democrats wish to reject our proposal on the grounds that Sweden has good relations with Taiwan. Furthermore, the Social Democrats seem to be satisfied with the existing exchange conducted today within the framework of Business Sweden's Taipei office. Madam President, I would like Less than two weeks ago, I and a number of other Members of Parliament, many of whom from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, came back from Taiwan after meeting with top politicians to representatives of Swedish companies and Swedish citizens living in the country. The overall picture after our trip was hardly that the Swedish representation worked very well. In other words, the potential for development is enormous. We can therefore only hope that, for once, the government will stand on the side of democracy by heeding the will of Parliament and the people on this issue. Taiwan, as most people know, is a very prosperous democracy with almost 24 million inhabitants. It is, according to a recent survey, actually the eighth most democratic country in the world. In addition, Sweden and Taiwan share a wide range of core values such as respect for democracy and human rights as well as the defence of the rule of law and freedom of expression. Taiwan is also characterised by a stable economy based largely on high-tech goods and has a high level of prosperity among its inhabitants. From an international perspective, Taiwan is a very important player in the world trade market, and today it has both full and unofficial diplomatic relations with a wide range of countries around the world. Unfortunately, we see that it is not enough for Taiwan to set an example in virtually every area of society. It does not seem enough to be Asia's main democracy and to stand up continuously for the rule of law and fundamental human rights. It does not even seem enough for the government that Taiwan has successfully assisted other countries in various crises – most recently Sweden with protective equipment under the coronapandemine. The reason for this is spelled fear. Mr President, I would like to I don't want to believe this is about ignorance. The Parliament should clearly regard Taiwan as the independent nation it is de facto. Furthermore, the isolation of Taiwan in world organisations, such as the United Nations, must stop as soon as possible. The systematic exclusion of Taiwan from the UN community does not go hand in hand with the UN Charter and the foundations on which it is based. The government's prowess with regard to Taiwan, not least in the light of its alleged pro-democracy offensive, is directly shameful. If you are serious about wanting to fight for democracy and human rights, there is an extreme amount to work with. Mr President, I would like to As you know, there are no small issues we are debating today, and it is almost impossible to raise everything that is important that concerns the report. The report, as Mr Wallmark said earlier, contains some 150 requests for exercise from 74 motions that literally touch all corners of the world. I would like to take this opportunity to ask for the approval of reservation 2. There are several important issues in the report relating to Russia, China, Iran, Kurdistan, the Horn of Africa – to name a few areas. On a number of previous occasions, I have highlighted our policy on several of these issues, and our policy is, of course, solid. Of course, it is possible to read on to those who are particularly interested. In many cases, not least when it comes to how we deal with Russia, we Swedish democrats have for many years had the most offensive policy regarding sanctions, among other things. We can now see that we have been right, and we must never accept the oppression seen there. We must dare to stand up even when the wind blows. Mr President, I would like to I welcome Mrs Jamal-El-Haj from the Social Democrats to ask for a reply to my speech. The establishment of a House of Sweden in Taipei has support from the Swedish Chambers of Commerce and support from Swedish citizens in Taipei, who are keen to change the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' current limping solution. Please, Jamal El-Haj-Haj, can you explain what the Social Democrats mean by the claim that the current Swedish representation in Taipei works well? That was a long way from the impression I and many other Members of Parliament had when we were there recently. I wish the Social Democrats would listen to the Swedes who live and work in Taiwan.
i-ENtr88SY6J8fs26xhczexy	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for Markus Wiechels's call for a reply. I'd love to. Sweden has good relations with Taiwan. These have developed over many years in a number of areas. Trade with Taiwan is one example. Swedish companies have had a long and successful presence in Taiwan, and today almost a hundred Swedish companies operate there. The Business Sweden office in Taiwan has been active since 1991, and it was the then Export Council's first office in Asia. Every year, trade talks are held at state secretarial level between Sweden and Taiwan. This has been happening since 1980. Sweden will continue to develop its relations with Taiwan, and Business Sweden is currently engaged in important work for Swedish trade interests. We believe that the already extensive exchange currently takes place within the framework of Business Sweden's Taipei office. Why do you want to take away the successes that Sweden has gained in Taiwan and replace them with something else?
i-AADhcFSeAPm7ELDAgonX6J	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Jamal-El-Haj for requesting a reply as requested. Of course we have an office in Taipei, and that's good. But that doesn't mean it works well. In my speech, I have tried to point out that several of us Members of Parliament who were in Taipei with our own eyes could see that the office is not working well. It does not matter how long the office has existed or that there are trade relations between the countries. As it is now, consular activities in the country are not working well. For this reason, I have a little question that the Social Democrats choose to reserve their reservations against the decision which, as Mr Wallmark said, otherwise the whole committee apart from the Social Democrats can support, namely the establishment of a House of Sweden in Taiwan. It is not about destroying something good, it is about building something much better. It is about creating relationships that do not exist today and enabling Swedish citizens who live and work in the country and for Swedish companies to develop the relationships that already exist. For this reason, I do not understand why a Social Democrat can argue that it works when it actually does not work well.
i-4z33QvQZonbf2Hou8uFDTn	Mr President, I would like to It is Markus Wiechel who thinks that it does not work, but we on the Social Democratic side think that the efforts made so far are working well. The office has been in existence since 1980, and it has seemed good. In addition, there has been good relations and a good dialogue with Taiwan. The difference between our party and your party is that our party is socially responsible. When we do something good, we want to build on it. So far, what we have done has proved to be working well, and there is no evidence that it has not worked. We want to continue building on the link. If something is to be done together, it is with the EU. Let's not split things up and start doing one thing or the other. Let us act firmly and continue to move forward.
i-FdgXB1sB57kYZxRdCujmWz	Mr President, I would like to I again wonder whether anyone from the Social Democrats, the government or the Socialist parliamentary group has talked to Swedish entrepreneurs or Swedish residents in Taiwan at all. It doesn't feel like it. The image that Jamal El-Haj-Haj and the Socialist Foreign Policy Group are trying to give is not at all in line with the picture I have received after visiting Taiwan and talking to Swedes who are in Taiwan. A recurring argument is that this does not go together with the one-China policy that Sweden and the whole of the EU are pursuing. But that is also not true because there are several countries around the world that have a completely different approach towards Taiwan. Lithuania, in particular, is an exemplary example of this. It is possible to establish stronger relations and give greater recognition to Taiwan and those living in Taipei without risking anything in any way. I thank Mr Jamal-El-Haj for requesting a reply to my speech.
i-FLfCzJjJUJRPKEnxdWVZkt	Mr President, I would like to In its report for 2021, V-Dem notes that 30 years of democratic achievements have been wiped out. We'll be back to 1989 before the fall of the Berlin Wall. That level is what applies. Liberal democracies – it is important to mark – have been severely affected. Only about 13% of the world's population live in liberal democracies. We have every reason to stick together, Mr President, and to build alliances to develop and strengthen liberal democracies. We want to see a new wave of democratisation, not the third wave of autocracy that we are now seeing. This report on human rights really touches the heart of the autocracy wave. It concerns human rights, and it concerns some regions. It concerns developments in Russia under Vladimir Putin and in China under Xi Jinping. These two have been the door openers that other countries have followed in this wave of autocracy. They have taken back on and shelter behind Xi Jinping and Vladimir Putin. It may be in Iran or North Korea, in dictatorships of an old or new kind – the autocrats are spreading out in the aftermath of Vladimir Putin and Xi Jinping. When we talk about human rights, Mr President, we in Sweden say that they are universal and mutually reinforcing. However, in the areas, countries and regions we are talking about in this report, the opposite is true. They're mutually debilitating. We can see how these regions and countries are closing down areas by area and reinforcing each other's role in weakening democracy, weakening human rights and weakening the rule of law. It is a dismantling of what we have built up over the last 30 years. The two-track policy that Sweden has had towards Russia, but also towards China, has reached the end of the road and must be given a different direction. It is not enough to talk about human rights with part of the system. We need to see that it is the whole, and we really need to change tracks and have a comprehensive policy. Russia is clearly addressed in the report. It shuts down civil society and independent media. It has attacked and murdered LGBTI people – not least in Chechnya, which is a black hole in terms of human rights without access at all. Kadyrov rules with Putin's support, and human rights are scarcely visible. We also see that recent repression has increased. It has gone so far that Russia, which entered the 1990s, had to leave the Council of Europe this year. It is excluded because it does not live up to its commitments. We have seen propaganda where representatives of Russia speak disparagingly of human rights as a invention of the West that threatens its values and the national conservative profile that it has. We have seen the closure of Memorial, a classic organization with which many of us have had contact. My friend Vladimir Kara-Kara-Murza was recently arrested and is at risk of 15 years in prison. It is a dark time for the Russian people, Mr President, because we know that there is commitment and will and hope and dreams of another future in Russia too. We have seen those who, despite the risks, go out on the streets of St. Petersburg and Moscow and demonstrate by the thousands. We have seen them stand with a white sign without a single word written as a silent protest. We've seen them arrested. The people who continue to run that fight have our support, and we must see them too. Mr President, I would like to China under Xi Jinping has also reached new heights when it comes to shutting down. Then I am not thinking of covid, which we usually think of when we talk about shutdown in China, but actually of society at large. There was a time before Xi Jinping when there was hope for some openings in terms of media freedom, people's ability to organize themselves and so on. But today there is no such hope. You shut down with rigorous surveillance. Media is silenced. Foreign citizens are kidnapped. Our Gui Minhai is incarcerated. China holds up to 1 million of its Muslim citizens Uighurs in detention camps. They will be brainwashed to obey the Communist Party and Beijing. The Center Party clearly condemns the abuse and forced detention of Uighurs, and we expect the government to condemn these abuses equally clearly. We would like the ICC to be able to exercise jurisdiction over China as well. This is not the case today, and it means that if we do not have independent international scrutiny, we will only have access to the data we receive from internationally recognised organisations. They have provided very clear reports, and these reports will then be the basis for assessments in relation to, for example, the Convention on Genocide. We have heard about one-China policy in the past. One China, yes, but it was in our previous position. With Hong Kong and the new security laws, this has been shut down. China has re-evaluated and taken up new positions. We must do the same, Mr President. In this context, it is important to persevere and persevere in supporting those who are fighting for democracy and freedom in Hong Kong. It is with regret and hope of a change of attitude on the part of the government that I hear that the government's aid policy will now obviously shut down support for democracy and human rights in China as an effect of the cuts announced. It would be extremely bad if that were to happen. I expect that we will have a different order in that part. Finally, I know that time has been a bit flexible, Mr President, but I am now trying to follow the new era – I want to touch on what has been up as an important part. It's about House of Sweden and Taiwan. When we talk about China, we must see that Taiwan is a democracy that upholds human rights, stands up for freedom and the rule of law and has a different policy from that of the mainland. We have to stand up for Taiwan at this point. Taiwan is threatened by the Communist Party, no doubt about it. The Communist Party has set itself the goal of stopping democracy wherever it appears and, of course, also in Taiwan. The threat to Taiwan is present and we must make clear our support for Taiwan and democracy in Taiwan. Mr President, I would like to Part of this is to upgrade our presence in Taiwan, to upgrade our representation. I introduced the question of the Office of Sweden once in this House, Mr President. We have moved to the House of Sweden, and we are following a path that other EU states have taken. House of Sweden is not just a new name for Business Sweden in Taipei. For this, Mr President, is not just about trade. The Social Democrats must realise that. It's about doing a lot more. It is about being playable and about upgrading our presence with permanent representation, politically broadcast and a political presence. It is a broader presence than just trade that needs to be. I was, Mr President, one of those who, as a foreign political spokesperson, visited Taiwan recently. It was interesting to note, for example, the clear signal of EU representation to us: you can do more. Your voice needs to be clearer. You are not in the talks that the EU countries are conducting. The EU has a much greater presence, as do other EU countries. So if you are seeking to coordinate with the European Union, Mr President, you should listen to the signal that comes from the European Union's representation. There is a lack of a Swedish voice in the political dialogue. Taiwan is a node for China policy in many countries today. It is a place for many countries to better track what is happening in the Communist Party's China. We therefore have every reason to decide today to upgrade the Swedish presence in Taiwan and upgrade to House of Sweden Taipei. It would be wise for the government to heed the announcement that the Parliament will address to it later today. I propose that the House of Sweden be approved and that reservation 6 be rejected. On behalf of the Centre Party, however, I would also like to support paragraph 3 on the subject of China and what I touched on earlier. To conclude, Mr President, I would just like to say briefly that we have a reservation on a new Middle East strategy. A new strategy is needed. I could read out – and I hope that the Social Democrats have also read – the committee's view on the issue of good relations with Israel and the reference in the report to an earlier report. There is much there to examine for the Social Democrats in the Committee on Foreign Affairs too.
i-2nZx9nGQK6craFfZUBcD6f	Mr President, schoolchildren and audiences! Today we are dealing with human rights movements around the world from the general period of exercise, when parties write about the issues they wish to write about themselves. With this being the last year of a long term term, we are also dealing with motions written long ago. In this report we are dealing with motions on Iran, China and Russia. For the Left Party, our motions on Central Asia and Iran, as well as on Russia, deal with claims. We already have an excellent China policy in the Left Party, which we discussed in connection with the government's letter on China in 2019. I was also going to say a few words today about Turkey and the human rights situation there. But let me start by saying something about the global situation and how we see human rights going back all over our world. We need aid to counter this decline in human rights. Both ideas about reducing Swedish aid, which Swedish democrats and Moderates have, and the Government's proposal to increase the so-called "deduction" of aid lead in the wrong direction if we are to strengthen human rights globally. Mr President, I would like to Iran is undoubtedly one of the hardest and most authoritarian dictatorships of our time. Human rights violations are numerous and widespread. Despite authoritarian rule, which does not allow opposition, people go out in protest against the regime. Thousands of people have been subjected to arbitrary arrests and excessive and deadly violence during demonstrations in the last three years. The presidential elections in June 2021 saw Ebrahim Raisi as the winner, with a turnout that was the lowest ever, 48 per cent. In Tehran, the capital, only 26 percent participated. The choice was a facade. There were 600 candidates who were disqualified from standing up, including many of the reformists. The new President Raisi stands for an even more hard policy, if that's even possible. He himself is subject to sanctions from the United States after being responsible for extrajudicial executions in 1988 and led the great, nationwide crackdown on the protests in 2019. Human rights violations in Iran are at risk of worsening even more. The Left Party will continue to pay attention to the situation in the country. Sweden can do more to support the fight for a free and democratic Iran, and Sweden, as an individual country and as a member of the EU and the UN, can consistently pay attention to the gross and extensive violations of human rights in Iran. Women are in a particularly vulnerable situation in Iran. Men's violence against women is widespread, and criminal proceedings are almost non-existent. In Iran, legislation is explicitly discriminatory against women. A married woman cannot obtain a passport or leave the country without her husband's written permission. According to Iranian civil law, a man also has the right to decide over his wife's profession. A woman's testimony in court is worth only half of a man's, and mothers lose custody of their children at a very young age. In the country, it is also criminal to have sex outside of marriage. Women who have been raped are therefore in danger of being punished if they are not believed. This is also a major obstacle for women to even report sexual abuse or seek care and help. Moreover, rape in the law is defined only as forced sex outside of marriage, which means that rape within the marriage is not considered rape. Nor is there a ban on domestic violence by men against women. In this context, the courageous human rights activists within women's organisations must be highlighted, who are fighting daily for women's and girls' rights in Iran. In the last two years, peaceful demonstrations have increased, while more women's rights activists have been prosecuted on a gender-discriminatory basis. We must give all the support we can to them. Iran's ethnic minorities, such as Kurds, Azeri, Arabs and Balucher, are subject to widespread discrimination, and their ability to express their language, culture and identity is clearly limited. The demands of ethnic minorities for respect for their rights are met with widespread persecution, imprisonment and, in many cases, the death penalty. Freedom of religion is extremely limited in Iran. Sunni Muslims, Bahai and other religious minorities face great opposition from the regime in their attempts to express their faith. One of Iran's largest ethnic minorities is the Kurds, which make up about 10% of the population. Many Kurds experience discrimination in the labour market, and the group is clearly under-represented in public posts. The situation of Kurdish organisations and activists is particularly difficult. Organizations are regularly banned, and activists are arrested, imprisoned and executed for crimes against what is called national security. Sweden, as an individual country and as a member of the EU and the UN, should pay attention to the gross and extensive violations and violations of ethnic and religious minorities in Iran. In Iran, child labour is also a major problem, and it is increasingly reported about trafficking with children. Child marriage is common. The legal minimum age for marriage is 13 for girls and 15 for boys, but fathers can apply for permission to marry their daughters at even younger age– it can be as young as 9 years. According to Iranian law, girls are of age from 9 years of age and boys from 15 years of age. There are extensive reports of children being subjected to extrajudicial disappearances, arrests, torture and even the death penalty. Iran has been recognised in recent years, among other things, as one of the countries that execute children. Amnesty International reported in 2021 that over 80 people are waiting to have their death penalty executed for crimes they committed when they were children. Iran has ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child but with the reservation that it should not conflict with national law and Islam. Ratifying the Convention under such conditions risks undermining the Convention and implying that it has no impact on legislation. Here, Sweden must stand up within the UN system in order for Iran to live up to its international commitments on children's rights. Mr President, I would like to Developments in and around China have come further down the agenda in recent months as a result of the war in Ukraine. But human rights developments are still dark in the country. The state's restrictions on people are enormous, both in general terms and due to the pandemic in particular. Recently, the multimillion-dollar town of Shanghai has been shut down to stop the spread of the Corona virus. For the Swedish part, the kidnapping and illegal arrest of the Swedish citizen Gui Minhai is particularly important to pay attention. A special investigation is currently under way in the Government Office on the circumstances of the case, which will be reported in October. It can contribute to important conclusions on how Sweden should conduct quiet diplomacy. The extent of China's human rights violations is sometimes difficult to absorb. The country has extensive exploitation of death's traffic. Large groups of minorities are subject to extreme repression, particularly in Tibet, Xinjiang and Inner Mongolia. We must never remain silent in our criticism of China's human rights violations as long as they continue and not be naive in our view of cooperation with China's political and economic leadership. We have to keep raising the human rights violations on the agenda. The committee today has an almost unanimous announcement to strengthen the diplomatic presence in Taiwan. The reasons are simple. The island has developed in a democratic direction in recent decades despite a military threat from the great neighbour China. As the first Asian country, progressive LGBTQ legislation has been introduced. At a time when democracy is in decline in many places, it is important to develop cooperation with those countries that want to strengthen democracy. Mr President, I would like to The Russian invasion of Ukraine is unprovoked, illegal and indefensible. The attack is a violation of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine and represents a great human suffering to the Ukrainian people. It is an attack on Europe's peace and the current security regime that we will never tolerate. The Ukrainian people have fought back hard and won the battle for Kiev, which has led Russia to withdraw its military from the area. At the same time, human suffering is enormous, and war crimes have most likely been committed. We will forever keep the photos from the suburb of Butja in our memories, and the site is added to a far too long list of genocides of civilians. Those responsible must be judged. Freedom of punishment must not prevail. At the same time, the war has resumed in eastern and southern Ukraine, where Russia has had greater military success. The Mariupol steelworks have become a symbol both of Ukrainian resistance and of the cruelty of Russia's war. Mr President, I would like to The Left Party has for a long time had a clear policy and view of the negative developments in Russia under Putin's regime. On many occasions we have noted that Putin's regime in Russia poses a security policy threat – first and foremost to everyone in Russia who opposes the regime and does not fit in with the society that Putin wants to build. But Russia's imperialist policy also poses a direct threat to the population of several neighbouring countries such as Ukraine, Belarus, Georgia, Moldova and the countries of Central Asia. Thirdly, Russia poses a direct military threat to us and our neighbours. It is, of course, a threat that should not be underestimated and that should be countered and prevented. Mr President, I would like to On 17 April, Turkey launched a massive attack on the Kurdish-dominated areas of Iraq and Syria. We can hardly read anything about this invasion in the Western press. It has disappeared in the noise of Russia's brutal attack on Ukraine. There are reports of attacks on refugee camps and the use of chemical weapons. The attacks have led to increased fighting between militia groups with different ethnic pre-signs, some with links to IS. There is a risk of the collapse of the Iraqi state. We can also see how President Erdo中an in Turkey restricts human rights within the country. The last day before yesterday, philanthropist and activist Osman Kavala were sentenced to life imprisonment, something that has been criticised by the Council of Europe, for their criticism of the rule of Erdo中an. With this, Mr President, I have described some of the major human rights restrictions that have taken place around the world. I would like to endorse the Left Party's reservation number 1.
i-DcXRHJ3CfuJ6r3zyMbCBP5	Mr President, I would like to We are today discussing human rights in countries and regions. On behalf of the Christian Democrats, I would like to begin by expressing a strong rejection and condemnation of Russia's illegal and unjust attacks on its peaceful neighbour Ukraine, with a democratically elected government. It is with horror and disgust that we take part in the Russian soldiers' assaults on civilians, on women and children, and bombings and bombings of homes, kindergartens, medical facilities and cultural buildings. That is as far from respecting human rights as can be achieved. It is Russia's President Putin who bears full responsibility for the unjust attack war and its consequences for the people of Ukraine. He must be held accountable for his actions by the International Court of Justice in The Hague. Mr President, I would like to More than a hundred years ago, my grandfather's cousin went to China, to East Turkestan, what is now called Xinjiang, in the northwest corner of China, near the border with Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan. There he worked for a few decades to help the locals in various ways, with education, dental care, printing and other things. He was also a skilled amateur botanist and helped to document and determine the local flora. When the Communists took over the country, the family was forced to flee under great hardships. Perhaps it is because of the warmth that the old man expressed to the Uighur people and to his vivid stories about the popular life there that the Chinese regime's modern abuse of this distant Turkish community, the Uighurs, appears with such sharpness and terrible sharpness. In a systematic way, the Chinese have for decades tried to wipe out Uighur culture. Chinese residents have been rewarded for reducing the proportion of indigenous people, for example by allowing Chinese families to have more than one child during the decades of one child policy if they settled in Xinjiang. The traditional Uighur houses and cultural buildings are demolished and replaced by concrete complexes. The Uighurs are forbidden to speak their language. Some 1 million Uighurs are imprisoned in concentration camps to reprogram them. They are forced to sterilize and steal body organs from them. It is a purely bestial dehumanization of an entire ethnic group. The data on China's treatment of the Muslim minority group Uighurs require the action of the outside world. So about 1 million Uighurs are in re-education camps. This is the largest mass incarceration of an ethnorelic group since the days of World War II. According to a report by the Newlines Institute for Strategy and Policy and Raoul Wallenberg Centre for Human Rights, published in 2021, the abuse of the Uighurs meets the criteria for genocide. It is about time that Sweden now recognised that genocide is taking place and put pressure on the international community to condemn the Chinese state's actions against the Uighurs. In 2020 and 2021, the US has imposed sanctions on Chinese politicians and companies that it considers to be responsible for the abuse, which the EU has subsequently joined. Even Christians are oppressed in China and are not allowed to exercise their faith freely. Perhaps particularly vulnerable are Uighur Christians, who are squeezed between the Muslim majority of Uighurs and the atheistic regime. I believe that the Swedish Government should work within the EU to ensure that the Union regularly highlights the situation of the Uighurs, Christians and other minorities in China. Furthermore, efforts need to be intensified to get the Swedish citizen Gui Minhai released. Mr President, I would like to The developments in Hong Kong and Taiwan and the increased vulnerability of these countries deserve more attention from the Swedish government. The extensive protests in Hong Kong that were taking place in 2019 and 2020 were based on a bill that would allow the Hong Kong Government to extradite persons suspected of crimes in accordance with China's criminal law. The national security law that came into force in 2020 has severely restricted freedom of the press and of expression. It is important to emphasise the principle of maintaining the two systems in a country in order to preserve Hong Kong's right to self-determination. I and the Christian Democrats believe that Sweden and the EU clearly need to stand up for freedom and democracy in response to the events of recent years in Hong Kong. The foreign policy approach towards China shall also aim to strengthen relations with Hong Kong and Taiwan. The Christian Democrats welcome the committee's announcement of a House of Sweden in Taipei. Taiwan is a de facto state and a democracy with good relations with Sweden. Taiwan and the EU share key values such as respect for democracy, human rights and the rule of law and could benefit from even deeper cooperation. Sweden should also promote Taiwan's participation in international contexts, for example in international UN agencies. A House of Sweden would be a good meeting place to stimulate not only trade but also culture and democratic values. With this, I would like to support the Christian Democrats' reservation 4 in paragraph 2.
i-W5QLaVH3AFJ3JeKHVdMpFQ	Mr President, I would like to Thank you to everyone for a good debate! We are today debating human rights in countries and regions. It is a bit difficult because there are many countries and regions that have major problems with human rights. As a Liberal, I believe that we have a responsibility to ensure that human rights, indeed human rights, are respected everywhere in the world all the time. We can never accept restrictions on human rights. They are absolute and out of time and space. They're everywhere, all the time. Mr President, I would like to Sometimes, in the debate on human rights and on foreign policy, it has sounded a bit like a value-based foreign policy, a policy that actually puts the values of human rights, democracy, freedom and so on in the first place would be in contrast to a more pragmatic view where you can tallen a little on those rights because it might create business opportunities for Sweden or something else. I don't share that vision. I believe that it is both in Sweden's interest and our responsibility to pursue a value-based foreign policy. It's good for Sweden. It is good for all people in Sweden, and for that matter all people outside Sweden, if respect for human rights is strengthened and democracy includes more people and more countries. It is good for the prosperity increase and the opportunity to have well-being in both Sweden and the whole world if we also strengthen respect for human rights. There is no contradiction between these two things, despite the fact that this has sometimes been the case in the foreign policy debate. Mr President, I would like to This is made crystal clear by the war of aggression waged by Russia against Ukraine. If we from the Swedish side had previously dared not to be involved in financing this through Russian oil and gas and if we had previously made sure to strengthen democratic aid in order to strengthen democratic forces in Russia – then we might have been able to avoid the terrible war that we are seeing right now. If more countries respect human rights and democracy, we will also have a world that is growing together and a prosperity that is growing everywhere. It's working! There is no need to choose between pragmatism and a value-based foreign policy. Mr President, I would like to This report points out in the headings in particular Iran, Russia and China, as well as a number of China's neighbouring countries and areas. I will dwell for a moment on the part of the report which has the title We have a reservation with number 5 to which I request approval. I am doing this precisely because, in the case of China, it is perhaps clearer than anywhere else that foreign policy must dare to be precisely value-based. One such example is, of course, Hong Kong, where the forces that have fought and fought for democracy are very, very clearly suppressed by the Chinese dictatorship. There has been and still is broad support in the Swedish parliament for tough sanctions against China, but despite this broad support I lack clear action from the Swedish government. We cannot accept restrictions on human rights in Hong Kong, and we cannot accept that the Chinese dictatorship does not allow either its own citizens or the citizens of Hong Kong to live in freedom and democracy. Another such example is Xinjiang, who has been debated here before. There are crimes against humanity. We have seen examples of genocide and vile crimes in which the Uighur minority has been subjected to terrible horrors by the very Chinese dictatorship. This too is our responsibility. It is also in our interest to ensure that China interrupts this and let this people live in peace and freedom as well. Mr President, I would like to I would particularly like to dwell on Taiwan. It is a little strange that Taiwan is under the heading on China in this report, because Taiwan is not really part of China. After all, it is quite obvious to everyone who has read just some point in political science that Taiwan is a country of its own. The islands which today make up Taiwan function as a democratic and independent state. There is a clear definition of this: a clearly defined people, a defined territory and a state power which has a monopoly of violence and which upholds the rule of law, law and order. Then it's a country. Then you can argue politically and think that one is hard to say and the other is not. But you can't make fun of this, no matter how many years someone has been in the Youth League, that you are a politruk or have been a long-time minister at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or what it might be. You can't joke that Taiwan is a country of its own. It is also a well-functioning democracy. It is one of the most well-functioning democracies in the world – not only the only one in its area but also one of the most well-functioning democracies in the world. We believe that it is unacceptable for China to exclude Taiwan from various international organisations. WHO is one such example. Taiwan, of course, should also have a place in the United Nations. We, from the Swedish side, must make this very clear. We, as democratic citizens, should immediately recognise Taiwan's right to shape its own social development and to govern its own democratic system and be integrated into all the international institutions and cooperation that it wants. One-China policy has been mentioned here today. But it cannot be up to us Swedish politicians who sit here in Stockholm and in the Riksdag to decide this. It must be up to Taiwan's own people to decide in democratic terms how to relate to a China policy and whether to abandon it or not. I believe that if the Taiwanese people could decide for themselves in free elections that were not affected by threats from China, they would also have chosen to be independent. Clearly, as a democratic country, we have a responsibility to ensure that they have such choices without being threatened by China. We have a responsibility to ensure the security of the Taiwanese people. We, like all countries, have a duty to do this. Taiwan must be able to decide on its own future, freely and without influence, threats or pressure from the dictatorship in Beijing. It is for this reason that we emphasise in our reservation that Sweden should establish diplomatic relations with Taiwan – proper diplomatic relations. A first and good step is the House of Sweden in Taipei. The Social Democrats have objected to this. But there are many steps to be taken, and we have a responsibility to conduct a value-based foreign policy in this regard too. Mr President, I would like to I apologise for exceeding my speaking time for a minute.
i-8qp7u8hXTof9EXb2b6cVFA	I would like to remind you that statements of opinion from the gallery are not allowed. I'll have to ask the guards to remove the people who disrupt the order as soon as possible.
i-Ns6p78i1jqFzGn43L5adcN	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating human rights from a country and region perspective, and the attacks on people's freedom, life and security take different forms. Russia's invasion of Ukraine, which causes death and drives hundreds of thousands of civilians on the run, is what lies closest to our hearts right now because Ukraine's cause is also ours. It is natural that what happens near us takes more place than what happens from a distance. At the same time, however, that happens from a distance, and I intend to touch on what may seem remote to many at the moment, given everything that Russia's illegal and indefensible war in Ukraine brings with it. But people live in such a reality also in other countries around the world. In Tunisia, the democratic achievements that followed the Arab Spring are being attacked. Authorities in Russia, Egypt and China, for example, have adopted very restrictive laws to restrict the activities of human rights defenders, and in some cases they have prosecuted and fined human rights groups for engaging in political activity. Today, however, I will mainly dwell on Latin America. Mr President, I would like to In Nicaragua, the government has withdrawn the registration of dozens of human rights and aid organisations, including Oxfam, by means of a law requiring all organisations that have received foreign funding to be classified as foreign agents and then banned them from interfering in national policies. In Ecuador, under the presidency of Rafael Correas, the government issued a decree giving it broad powers to regulate or dissolve non-governmental groups accused of political interference. The government used these powers to expel a number of international organisations and disband an Ecuadorian environmental group after members of the group protested against oil drilling in the Amazon. In Venezuela, the government has adopted a series of laws restricting civil society and has prosecuted groups that receive foreign funding and accused them of treason and violations of national sovereignty. In El Salvador, the government also proposed a law on foreign agents in November 2021 that would have banned groups receiving international funding from political activities. Following objections from human rights groups, the bill did not go further, but it is still under consideration. Mr President, I would like to However, there are light points. In Honduras, a priority for the new President Xiomara Castros, as well as Honduras' first female president, is the government to work for gender justice including sexual and reproductive health and rights. In the new government, 29.4 percent are women, so 10 out of 34 offices are held by women. The new government is thus challenging power structures both in Honduras and at regional level in Latin and Central America, particularly regarding the right to abortion. It is therefore important that we show our support for her progressive agenda for equality and human rights. Mr President, I would like to As chairman of the SRHR inter-political network in the Riksdag, I would also like to take the opportunity to tell you that we took an initiative and wrote an appreciative and encouraging letter to Xiomara Castro offering our support and help in her ambition. We also contacted the other Nordic SRHR networks, and by the time the letter was sent, 57 Nordic parliamentarians had signed. Of course, the fact that Colombia and Argentina have gone in the right direction and recently decriminalised abortion is also a success. Mr President, I would like to Then we'll end up in the ditch again. In Guatemala, a law entered into force in June 2021 empowering the government to arbitrarily shut down civil society groups considered to have violated public order. There is also great concern about the erosion of the judiciary in Guatemala. A prerequisite for the protection of human rights is an independent and well-functioning judiciary. In Guatemala, we are currently seeing the opposite. Here, Sweden, together with the EU and the US, needs to step up its efforts. The EU expresses great concern that 20 judges and prosecutors have been forced to leave Guatemala because of threats and legal proceedings against them. On March 23, the renown Judge Erika Aifán was forced to resign, and the Supreme Court decided to suspend Judge Pablo Xitumu from his post. Only weeks earlier, Judge Aifán had been hailed for his work against corruption in connection with the first celebration of the International Day of Women's Judges. Mr President, I would like to For several years, a bill on the protection of life and family life has also been under way in Guatemala. Contrary to what the name suggests, it would put the lives and health of thousands of girls and women at risk, including by extending the ban on abortion so that miscarriages would also be criminalised. Even today, abortion is forbidden and punishable except when the woman is at risk of losing her life if she completes her pregnancy. The new law would put women who have abortions for other reasons at risk of being sentenced to prison for up to ten years. The previous maximum sentence was three years. The penalty for health professionals performing illegal abortions would be even stricter. In fact, the law was voted through on International Women's Day on 8 March by 101 votes in favour and 8 against. Thankfully, President Giammattei used his veto on 15 March after condemning the bill, arguing that it violated the country's constitution and Guatemala's international commitments on human rights. But we know what the Guatemalan Congress really wants to do, and the threat still hangs like a dark cloud of concern over the women of Guatemala. Mr President, I would like to Increased representation of women in decision-making positions in Latin America makes a difference. The average proportion of women in Latin American parliaments is 29.7%. In Colombia it was only 19.7 percent in the previous Congress, but in the Congress elections on 13 March, according to preliminary results, the proportion of women increased by as much as 9.62% to 29.3 percent. Behind this is a campaign and cooperation between the organisations Red Nacional de Mujeres and Sisma Mujer. That the presidential candidate Gustavo Petro, who leads Colombia, has Francia Márquez as vice president gives hope for the upcoming presidential election on 29 May. Márquez is a woman, afrocolombian and known environmentalist who has been forced to flee within her country because of her commitment, and she is one of the candidates with the greatest support. Mr President, I would like to So there are some points of light while there are great sorrows and frustrations. Latin America is a complex region with many challenges, not least in terms of human rights. The polarization with religious as well as nationalistic protagonists in the region is a challenge. Therefore, innovative partnerships with various civil society organisations, including religious actors, are also important. We will continue to build capacity, increase knowledge and understanding between people and work together to push forward the fight for human rights in Latin America, Europe and the rest of the world. Impact work makes a difference.
i-SNAMgLnJLDq2zme52WMftK	Mr President, I would like to I thank the honourable Member for his speech. I was going to start where the honourable Member left off. She said advocacy makes a difference. I couldn't agree more. Much of the foreign policy is about advocacy to ensure that human rights, democracy, freedom and so on are strengthened throughout the world. One issue that the honourable Member avoided in his speech, or at least chose not to raise, was the question of Sweden's relationship with Taiwan. It is also an issue where there is a reservation from the Social Democrats. The committee wants to develop Sweden's relationship with Taiwan. It is of course a question of influencing China to move in a democratic direction by strengthening relations with democratic Taiwan. Taiwan is not really part of China, but it is clear that strengthening the democratic forces in the region will also affect it. It is also a question of being involved in building relations with Taiwan. To reserve itself against developing relations with Taiwan, as the Social Democrats have done, means, of course, taking a stand against a development in which we get closer and closer relations with the only Chinese democracy that exists. It will also mark the desire of the Taiwanese people to decide their own future in free and transparent democratic elections. My question to the Social Democrats is why they do not think that the Taiwanese people should be allowed to decide their own future in free and transparent democratic elections.
i-8LSUdEc2Dx7sMQUdG9jD1B	Mr President, I would like to I thank Joar Forssell for the question. I was in no way trying to avoid Taiwan in this. Unfortunately, I am not as familiar with this as I am with other issues. Latin America is one of my responsibilities; that is why I maintained it. I think that Jamal El-Haj-Haj previously answered the question about Taiwan and Taipei regarding, among other things, House of Sweden and that we have a good job down there. However, I do not want to go further on this issue, because unfortunately this is not my home area.
i-EHiSLMLLRayJzVnS4mUn4b	Mr President, I would like to I thank the honourable Member for his reply. Now we are both on the Foreign Affairs Committee, and I believe that those who listen to this debate understand that all Members sitting on the Foreign Affairs Committee are voting on all foreign policy issues. Here in this House, we are voting on all the issues put forward. In this way, all Members are always responsible for representing their views on all issues. This is also a committee in which several members from many parties try to keep track of not only part of the world but the whole world. In fact, in the report we are debating today, the Social Democrats have a reservation on Taiwan. I understand that it may be difficult to keep track of the whole world and every issue, but this is a major issue that has been debated in committee. It is also an issue where there is a reservation. Apart from that, this is about principles. The honourable Member's speech revolved around South America and various countries there. I still felt that the Social Democrats think that people should be allowed to decide their own future in free and transparent democratic elections. In any case, the Socialist Group in the South America Group thinks so if I understand it correctly. Then the question is why you don't think so, too, when it comes to people living in Taiwan. It is also people who live in a democracy but who, because of China's threats and because, for example, the Swedish government has been flat and have not dared to develop relations enough, cannot fully decide their own future in free and open democratic elections. The question remains why the Social Democrats do not want to go so far. Why do the Social Democrats have reservations about this?
i-JrjmASNHWCbz3NpjiW4R1X	Mr President, I would like to I want to make it clear that the Social Democrats stand up for the rights and freedoms of all people. Then we can have different views on things in committee, weigh different things against each other and not have the exact same entrance. But we are obviously in favour of people's rights and freedoms in every way. I would like to refer to the answer that Jamal El-Haj-Haj gave earlier when he was asked by the Swedish Democrats. But clearly we stand up for everyone's freedom and self-determination, not least now with what we see in Ukraine. What is really at stake in our democratic world is precisely the right of self-determination. That is not to say that we would not want to see it in Taiwan in any way. But there are different definitions of how to have a job in different regions.
i-JbbD1mb5bU5c16PBi4R4oy	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for approval of the moderate reservation number 7. The report is about human rights. It is a general exercise report and concerns Russia, Iran and China in particular. I will dwell on this area. First of all, I would like to say and emphasise that human rights have intrinsic value in themselves. Human rights are also part of security policy. The European security order includes human rights, democracy, the economy and climate as important points. One of these important issues is freedom of the media. On 7 October this year it is 16 years since the murder of Russian journalist Anna Politkovskaja. In 2003 Anna Politkovskaja was awarded the OSCE Prize for Journalism, Democracy and Human Rights. But also a large number of less renowned journalists have been murdered in Russia. The characteristics of all of them are that their deaths have never been investigated, that the cause of death has not been established and that no legal process has taken place. This is nothing more than human rights abuses. I would also like to mention, Mr President, that in Russia earlier this year, a law was passed on punishment for spreading false war news, a law directly bearing Russia's war on Ukraine. Under the new legislation, accused persons can be sentenced to up to 15 years in prison for spreading false news of military operations. Persons sentenced for attempting to discredit the Russian army can be sentenced to up to five years in prison, Mr President. The Russian Government argues that the purpose of the legislation is to protect the truth. What has turned out, however, is that legislation does not protect freedom of expression or media freedom. Media freedom has become narrower. I say this because Russian opposition politician Vladimir Kara-Kara-Murza was arrested on 12 April after criticising Vladimir Putin and calling him a murderer in a BBC interview. It can be added that Vladimir Kara-Kara-Murza has previously, 2015 and 2017, been subjected to poisoning attempts when he was in Russia. This is human rights abuses. The new media legislation in Russia is also shrinking the already minimal scope for civil society. This is evident not least in the closure of the Memorial organisation. When the Duma recently adopted media law, this led to self-censorship of the media but also to opposition, intellectuals, free thought and free conversation being stopped and prevented. During Russia's war on Ukraine, reporters without borders have repeatedly reminded us that attacks on journalists during the ongoing war in Ukraine are a war crime. This has not prevented Russia from continuing to attack journalists in Russia and journalists who expressed critical views about Putin's war. Let me mention here that the media have reported that in the Zaporizjzja region there are Russian lists of leading people who are planned to kidnap to convert them and get them to cooperate with Russia. On 17 April, the Russian regime announced that all journalists who spread disinformation about Russia and propaganda for Ukraine will be held accountable and face a Russian military tribunal, Mr President. These are clear, clear abuses of the free speech, of the media, of journalists and of the order that we know and call the European security regime. Russia's actions must be talked about and made known, because the abuses need to stop. I would also like to mention that the Russian action has resulted in several media having ceased reporting from Moscow. The Russian authorities have also blocked websites for BBC, Facebook and Twitter. Websites and social media used by many people are currently blocked in Russia. I would also like to mention another dimension of Russia's war on Ukraine, namely the ongoing lack of respect for human rights in several of Russia's military attacks. It is about the abuse of civilians but also about the abuse and attacks against minorities, such as the Turkish-speaking minority Urumer in the Maridopol region. Another example is the destruction of the older Jewish cemetery in Bila Tserkva. A third example is the attacks on the memorial monument to the Holocaust in Babij Jar, where tens of thousands of Jews were murdered by the Nazis during World War II. I would like to mention another perspective on human rights abuses, Mr President. With Russia's economy now deteriorating, there are a large number of migrant workers in Russia who have been affected in many contexts. They do not receive their salaries or support in Russia and find it difficult to return to their home countries. I am thinking above all of people from Central Asia. This makes these people extra vulnerable, are in a vulnerable situation and are at risk of becoming victims of human trafficking. This, too, is something that should be taken into account by the outside world. For those who want to know more about human rights abuses in Russia, I recommend reading information from the OSSE, Odihr, the UN, Amnesty, Reporters without Borders and others. I should also like to mention, Mr President, something about Tibet. On 7 October, 72 years have passed since Tibet came under Chinese rule. At the end of September 2020, the American research institute Jamestown Foundation reported how Chinese rulers systematically force Tibetan shepherds and farmers to leave their lands. There are several examples of abuse. There are also examples of how Chinese President Xi Jinping is actively working to put Tibetans in so-called retraining camps. This is totally paradoxical. If the Tibetans were really favored by Chinese rule, China would not have to put the Tibetans in some form of retraining camp, for then the Tibetans would welcome Chinese rule. That is not the case. I would also like to say a few words about the moderate reservation. We believe that Sweden's ties to Israel should be strengthened, especially in areas such as research and innovation, where Israel is prominent. But I would also like to emphasise that the Swedish Social Democratic Government's unilateral recognition of Palestine in 2014 has contributed to the weakening of the Swedish relationship with Israel. This is very unfortunate, and I and the Moderates therefore believe that there should be a review of how Sweden's relations with Israel can be improved. I would also like to mention here what can be done to strengthen human rights. I say this, Mr President, because during the debate here we have raised a great deal of human rights violations. It is terrible to listen to this. As politicians, however, we can help to increase respect for human rights. I would like to mention, for example, the work done within the EU and international cooperation. I would also like to mention that Sweden is active in these areas, not least the Swedish Parliament. This allows us to contribute. It is difficult for Sweden as a single nation, but together with others we can do a lot. We can use diplomatic resources. We can use sanctions. There are also training programmes and targeted assistance. But I would also like to mention the involvement of civil society, which is extremely important for human rights. Finally, I would like to say that democracy, the market economy, transparency, international law, independent legal systems and zero tolerance to corruption and accountability of politicians are important basic elements of human rights.
i-Un2H6znvxATNM4dkf7ufC4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are debating the report on migration. Let's look back to last weekend's riot. Last weekend's riot is a consequence of too much immigration into Sweden for too long. That's it. There are those who say that it is a question of integration problems. One prerequisite for being able to integrate is that we have a migration to Sweden. This weekend's riot showed that Sweden has never had the capacity or ability to integrate as many people as Sweden has received. Those who are friends of migration are also a friend of enabling people to travel to Sweden class. When you have come to Sweden, however, you must know that there are limitations even in the reception. Madam President, I would like This is what happens when, for three decades of goodwill, you have wanted to help people in need. A large group of people have come to Sweden and had asylum reasons, and they have been allowed to stay. However, there is also a large group that has not had sufficient protection needs that have been allowed to stay. Sweden should take its responsibility, but Sweden cannot take responsibility for the whole world. Madam President, I would like The migration legislation we now have is very different from the migration policy that Sweden has had. We will set requirements for skills in the Swedish language already when you get a permanent residence permit. There must be a requirement for self-sufficiency. If you bring relatives here, you should also be able to support them. There must be requirements for knowledge of Swedish and social sciences also in citizenship. Rights go hand in hand with obligations. It is wrong to think that just because you write a few fine words on a paper on democracy, human rights, freedom of expression and freedom of the press, people will also take this on board. It is about norms and values that we in society follow every day. Let me be frank: you don't get Swedish just by landing at Terminal 5 at Arlanda. You have a luggage and a past, and that is to be kept in Sweden. But you should also want to become a part of Swedish society. I can take myself as an example. I have Armenian culture, and I can be Swedish-Armenians, but that also presupposes that I stand up for the Swedish values, because this is the society in which I shall live. This is where I'm supposed to work. There need be no contradiction here, but it is also a form of compromise. The country you live in is the country whose values and standards you should follow, because that's how it works in other parts of the world. If we were to move to another country ourselves, we would adapt to the culture and values there. Hopefully it is a democratic country like Sweden. But that's what you're supposed to live by. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 61, Diplomatic guarantees, in paragraph 17. I would like to continue the debate by talking about diplomatic guarantees. A functioning migration policy requires that we have a functioning return policy. Persons who have been sentenced to expulsion shall be expelled whenever possible. In the Säpo Yearbook you can read that over 250 individuals pose threats to national security. It includes, among other things, the six exiled imams. Swedish return policy is very much based on the fact that it should be a self-imposed return. A certain group chooses to return on its own, but too large a group chooses not to return. As Säpo himself writes in his yearbook, it is either that the individual does not cooperate or that the recipient country does not cooperate with Swedish authorities. There we have said from the Moderates that if we have a bilateral relationship with the recipient country in question, such as aid, we should make demands on the recipient country. One such country is Iraq. But we also see that enforcement barriers arise in cases where Säpo has made it clear that the individual is a security threat and is to be expelled. There, the Swedish Government must seek more diplomatic guarantees. Of course, it should not violate legal certainty or any contractual obligation, for example in relation to the risk of torture. However, as far as possible, we must seek diplomatic guarantees from countries in our surrounding world that will bring home their citizens. We cannot have Islamists and extremists living and working in Sweden who are a security threat to our democracy, our way of life, our equal society. They should not be allowed to express opinions – and not just express opinions but act – in order for our way of life to change based on their world view. They're not democrats. In their society, there is only room for one opinion, and one must conform to them. In our society, it's different. Look at the chamber! Here there are eight parties with eight different ideologies that express what our society looks like. In here it is in the speaker's chair that we argue and try to convince each other, and when the debate is over we thank you for a pleasant debate. But in the society of extremists and Islamists there is no room for this. There are many such examples in the world around us. Just look at the Middle East, where religious fundamentalists run the country.
i-TQYJUzdgx2UVQ23imxgxNi	Madam President, I would like I am relatively new to the committee and take part in this debate for the first time. To prepare myself a little, I have tried to think about why Sweden has ended up where we have ended up, with a somewhat absurd regulatory framework that has had such serious consequences that it is hardly possible to review even during my lifetime, and I am still not that old. Those who have been responsible for this policy area, migration policy, the last few decades have fundamentally changed Sweden, and we have come to a point here and now where it can no longer be denied that this change has largely been negative. My thesis in this is that many in political Sweden experience a kind of moral discrepancy between, on the one hand, an obligation to help vulnerable people, often expressed in a reference to international asylum law or something like that, and, on the other hand, the repercussions that this has here in Sweden in the form of religious fundamentalism, stoning against police and civil protection, systematic violations of children's human rights, mass unemployment, human trafficking, assistance fraud, gang crime and so on. The effect of this discrepancy has become a regulatory framework which, on the one hand, maintains a facade of regulated immigration, as expressed, for example, in the general visa requirement. Anyone can therefore not just fly to Sweden. It is also a regulatory framework that, on the other hand, has so many and so large loopholes that in practice it is free for anyone to try to move to Sweden for any reason and be supported by the public for the rest of their lives. The key to the question of what to do in the future, Madam President, I think lies in whether this moral discrepancy is real and actually exists. First of all, the possibility of seeking asylum in Sweden does not mean that this normally requires an irregular journey with a smuggler, a particularly great help to the world's poor. It's the other way around. What Sweden and the EU are doing in practice is holding up a purse in one hand and telling poor people in unstable countries that if you empty your bank accounts, go on a deadly journey organized by the local mafia network or terrorist organization and manage to bring you here alive, well, then this money can be yours – perhaps. At the same time, we all know that large-scale asylum reception here by people from across the world is not only unnecessary but also totally unsustainable. That is why we are also holding up a purse in the other hand as payment to border guards or coastguards in North Africa and Turkey, among others, so that they can stop the same migrants with different, more or less humane methods that we are attracting here at the same time. For those who have an intact moral compass, this is, of course, not only wrong but completely absurd, and for such a person there are only two ways forward. Either we abolish the visa requirement and allow the whole world to fly here to seek asylum, which would quickly mean the end of Sweden as a country. This is something that no one except environmentalists is crazy enough to suggest. Or we are abolishing the possibility of seeking asylum here after an irregular entry, which would mean the end of this deadly cat-and-mouse game, something that no one but us is upright enough to propose. But, perhaps someone asks, the rule that everyone should have the right to enter Sweden and seek asylum here does not come from this international regulatory framework that we must relate to? This is something many often claim. The answer to that question is no. If there is a myth about migration that I would like to put down once and for all, it is precisely the idea that Sweden would have an obligation to let anyone travelling through Denmark or Germany to Sweden to just increase asylum. There are, of course, international asylum rules; it certainly does. These rules are based on the UN Convention on the Status of Refugees, but the rules do not at all concern the question of how a country should deal with a person travelling between ten different safe countries on the way to a particular country that is preferred for purely economic or other reasons. The fact that there is any obligation for Sweden to allow such persons in is also denied by the Executive Committee of the UNHCR, which interprets the Refugee Convention. For the record, I shall say that it is number 58 from 1989, paragraphs (e) and (f) essentially. In addition to these consequences, the black market created by the asylum system also finances terrorism and organised crime, which further destabilises and creates poverty, which in turn creates more people who want to seek a better life elsewhere and so on. As Sweden becomes a product sold, mafia networks often build up completely unreasonable expectations among their customers. It is not impossible that the widespread dissatisfaction with Sweden that exists among many migrant groups is due to an understanding that you have simply been cheated when you have bought this ticket. This industry also effectively disables the asylum process, as the package tours also include a history that is then repeated at the Migration Agency. We probably know almost nothing today about who actually needs protection and who does not. The selection of who receives asylum in Sweden depends much more on who can afford to buy the ticket than on who actually has protection needs. Last but not least, all of this has a very negative impact on the EU's foreign policy capacity because the rogue states that we have in our neighbourhood always have a card that they can play, namely using migrants as a means of blackmail. The recent negotiations on the so-called Turkey agreement or the migration crisis in Belarus are clear examples of this. Madam President, I would like If the moral imperative does not force us to keep this turning door open, but rather – if we are to be honest and if we understand the situation for what it is – forces us to close it, while the international regulatory framework does not directly affect the situation, how are we to act? In view of the clearly unsustainable reception we have had in the past, we suggest that Sweden's efforts be turned into a focus on help in the area and that the asylum rules be designed according to a simple test to decide whether or not a person should be received here: Is there a need to go to Sweden in front of other countries? Is there an international obligation for Sweden to accept a certain person? If the answer to these questions is no, the person should not be allowed in here. Typically, this would mean a 'no' for people from Afghanistan, Somalia, Iraq, Iran and so on who come up with spontaneous applications. This also applies, of course, to quota refugees. On the other hand, the second question is partly answered in the affirmative vis-à-vis people from Ukraine, for example, because the border with the EU is the only way out for most Ukrainians and because Ukrainians have the right to travel freely within the Union. If we are going to stick to this principle, how are we going to achieve this? The first is, of course, that we should follow Britain's example and establish proper border controls in other countries. Britain has its border controls on the French side of the canal. We could have them in Denmark, Germany and Poland at ferry terminals. All of our neighbours have been wise enough to keep volumes significantly lower than we are, so there is no reasonableness whatsoever for migrants to continue to choose to travel to Sweden. It is perfectly possible to apply for asylum in Denmark, which is a safe and pleasant country. The second thing we should do is to follow the Danish and UK efforts to relocate the entire asylum process to safe third countries so that people who nevertheless manage to enter irregularly can have their case tried according to laws and regulations, just not right here. The third thing to do is to adapt our asylum and family immigration framework to the true minimum level of the European Union. In this respect, I would like to endorse Amendment No 2 in the report. The most remarkable statement made by the left in this parliamentary term is that, with the changes that have been made, we would be at or near the EU's so-called minimum level, and there have been tears of crocodile tears over this supposedly strict regulatory framework. It is possible to claim that we are at a European minimum if we are simply to ignore the fact that we are more generous than is required in terms of dependents' livelihoods, the right to family migration, the requirement to obtain permanent residence permits, access to welfare, access to health care, cash benefits, the possibility of living as undocumented, the possibility of procrastination by appeal, the possibility of refusing to cooperate in the asylum process without any negative consequences, the possibility of working while seeking asylum, the possibility of a change of track, access to publicly funded legal representation, access to interpreters and so on. It is also important to remember that the fact that the number of asylum seekers is relatively lower now than a few years ago is largely due to the pandemic and the external measures implemented by the European Union, such as the Turkey Agreement and the more or less professional border police that we fund in a few different countries. In addition, the number of asylum seekers is increasing quite rapidly right now after restrictions have begun to escalate, even apart from all Ukrainians who are coming. As I always stress in this regard, the problems we have in this area are not primarily due to the European Union or to some external regulatory framework that we have to deal with, but most of all to Sweden. The damage we have done to Sweden is self-inflicted. No one can claim that responsibility lies elsewhere. I see that I have oversold my speaking time a little, Madam President. I'm sorry about that.
i-KKuMpx19Evw1DAAS8q5rQV	Madam President, I would like Right now, the biggest humanitarian disaster in our immediate neighbourhood is going on for decades. Putin's invasion war has murdered women and children, young and old, and killed men who fought for their beloved Ukraine. Ukrainians have had to abandon their homes and flee their homeland. Women and children have had to say goodbye to their husbands, sons and fathers knowing that they may never see each other again. This has led to large flows of refugees to Europe and Sweden. I am proud that Europe and Sweden have opened their hearts and been an open arms to all those now forced to flee. The fact that the EU activated the mass refugee directive was a clear signal that there should be no doubt whatsoever about the immediate protection of those fleeing Putin's bombs. At the same time, this is the first time since the introduction of the mass refugee directive, which has also been activated. What the mass refugee directive does not cover is access to the current stage of establishment of language and society. The right to care is also limited to a care that cannot be tolerated. For the Center Party it is important that we now quickly develop the prerequisites for a good establishment: that you get the opportunity to learn the Swedish language, get the first job and get into and become a part of Swedish society. It is also a question of clarifying the right to care and becoming equal throughout the country for Ukrainian refugees. As far as possible, care based on medical needs should be made available. It is not only about offering protection but also about welcoming the Ukrainians who are now coming here, that families have a chance to stay and live, that children can go to school and that adults can work and integrate – to give them a way into our common society. To date, civil society has once again been given enormous responsibility. Now it's time for the government to take its place. However, we must manage to keep two thoughts in our heads at the same time. Because while Putin's bombs fall in Ukraine, people flee from war and oppression in several other parts of the world. Syria, Ethiopia, Eritrea, Sudan, South Sudan, Somalia – the list of countries from which people need to flee for various reasons can unfortunately be made very long. Common to the countries I have just mentioned is that they are the focus of UNHCR's resettlement. Since the 1950s Sweden has a long and proud humanitarian tradition of helping quota refugees. A quota refugee is a person who has fled his home country and who has been selected by the United Nations Refugee Agency (UNHCR) to move to another country, with the clear aim of providing the most vulnerable with protection. In 2016, the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Center Party, the Moderates, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats agreed that Sweden would receive 5,000 quota refugees. Last week, the Christian Democrats and the Moderates supported a proposal from the Swedish Democrats that Sweden should no longer receive quota refugees. For me, it is making a difference between refugees and refugees. As if it was not enough, the Swedish Democrats have in the near future presented proposals for refugees to be deprived of their jewelry – but it should not apply to everyone, but only to those whom the Swedish Democrats do not consider to be real refugees. Once again, a distinction is made between refugees and refugees. And as if that were not enough, the Swedish Democrats have in the near future proposed that if a family member commits a crime, the whole family should be expelled. And as if it were not enough, they have also suggested that one should be able to expel someone who exhibits antisocial behaviour. There is hardly any force to describe how dangerous these proposals are for our legal society and for our democracy. In my world there is only one true expression, and that is that this is pure racism. Madam President, I would like Last summer Sweden adopted a new migration legislation. It's largely good. At the same time, there are some questions that are still unanswered. For the Center Party, the right of asylum is inviolable. Those who receive a residence permit should be given the opportunity to stay, enter and become part of Swedish society. The person who receives a refusal shall return to his country of origin. The Parliament recently sent an announcement to the government about this in great harmony. However, there are still further questions. One of these is the rule of law. Legal certainty in Sweden is generally very good, so also in the migration process. However, I believe that what is good can be even better. A wide-ranging investigation is needed to review and strengthen legal certainty in migration legislation. Such an investigation should, inter alia, review the reliability and credibility assessments, which are key. This may apply, for example, when an asylum seeker invokes persecution due to conversion, sexual orientation or gender identity as a reason for asylum. The system of assistants also needs to be reviewed. The role of the assistants in the asylum process is often not only central but, unfortunately, also absolutely crucial. Finally, I would like to turn to you all over the country, who have stood up and been an open arms for all the people who are now fleeing from Putin's bombs. Thank you for what you have done, thank you for what you do and thank you for what you will do! It is priceless for people on the run, but it is also priceless for Sweden. Finally, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 31.
i-2L3gQhLzVtAaS7PBVtTgB3	Madam President, I would like It has soon been a year since the strongest reversal of Swedish migration policy ever. But what would be long-term and sustainable lasted about six months. It turned out that the migration laws in Sweden are so inhumane that the reception of Ukrainians would not have worked at all if the EU had not activated the mass refugee directive. What would it have been like if Sweden's immigration laws had been applied to those Ukrainians who are now fleeing Russia's brutal invasion? Firstly, they would probably have been referred to other quieter parts of the country, probably the western parts of Ukraine, in the same way as Afghans, for example, have been judged in spite of the fact that everyone knows that there is no safe place in Afghanistan. It was the most dangerous country in the world. Secondly, they might have ended up in limbo because of postponed expulsion or incarcerated. Thirdly – if they had now been granted a residence permit – the requirements would be one of Europe's most difficult to obtain a permanent residence permit or to be reunited with their family and children. I am relieved that the EU has made use of the mass refugee directive. At the same time, there is much that the Left Party wants to change in order for Ukrainians to feel real security in Sweden. But I am so incredibly sorry that it has not been activated before for other groups fleeing and that I need to illustrate the injustices in this way. For how could Sweden have deported Afghans with reference to calmer parts of the country? How can Sweden allow other groups to be placed in limbo year after year in the most terrible ways? And how can we have legislation that allows a mother, who has fought the hardest against the demands made, to finally choose which of her three children she will be allowed to reunite with because the legislation does not allow anything else? Putting a parent in such a situation is inhumane, and inhuman is exactly what this migration policy is. Temporary legislative changes that have not been investigated became permanent. Populist proposals that deprive people of their rights and freedoms have been brought forward. The result was a law with major shortcomings affecting children and individuals in the most terrible way and which received widespread criticism from research, experts, migration lawyers and civil society. It became everything we warned about. We also clearly see the selectivity of people on the run that undermines the right of asylum and shows how Sweden as a country is failing. When distinctions are made between Ukrainian refugees and others, it is once again revealed what one wants to characterize the public debate with and which are described on the basis of a need for protection and which are demonised. There is nothing that frightens one party or another here as much as the right to seek asylum. That right means equality. It means being human. Above all, the right to asylum is that no human being is illegal. We are equal, and we have the right to our freedom whether we are born in Afghanistan, Palestine, Ethiopia, Yemen, Syria or Sweden. Unfortunately, however, people's freedom was replaced by a policy of signaling from the government. It moved from a system shift in migration policy that pulls away rights and opportunities for those seeking protection in Sweden, impairs integration and makes Sweden a worse country to live in. It's classic right-wing politics. By portraying those seeking protection here as a threat and a burden, it will be easier to condition their welfare and deny them their rights. After all, the right wants to cut the security systems for everyone, but it is always easiest to start with these groups. A policy that says that certain groups are not welcome here has consequences, primarily for those who are no longer entitled to protection from war and oppression, but also for those who have been protected. Such a division affects everyone who in some sense is seen as new in Sweden but also those who have lived here for generations. We have seen the consequences of burning asylum homes, hate crimes and discrimination, and an increasingly crude and racist tone in the debate on society. This creates differences in society. The brutal class society is being maintained and racism is being reinforced. It is precisely from the blue brown side that we hear an increasingly aggressive tone. From the Swedish Democrats we hear proposals for collective punishment that can be traced to Germany in the 1930s. And I have to say that it is amazing that representatives of the Christian Democrats, an aspired party to government power, want to use the police to shoot sharply at their own people. This is done in countries that we condemn. This is done in the worst of dictatorships. This is not appropriate in a democracy with the rule of law. We need sharp politicians, not sharp shots. But it may not be difficult to figure out why the blue - brown ones take that tone and back each other up in it. Two years of Corona crisis, and they have nothing to come with. Neither equality, solidarity among people, nor rehabilitation of health care are their parade branches. On the contrary, they have allowed shareholders to dip the straw in the welfare to suck out our tax money that would go to school, health care and care. The only thing they can do now is point to immigration and say: there is the problem. Whether it is unemployment, housing crisis or poor welfare, they are obsessed with pointing to immigration. It is the same parties that have handed over power to the market and privatised Swedish welfare that has increased the gaps between people. Now they are trying to cover their own failures by blaming the refugees – the most vulnerable. They try to hide it by pitting groups against each other and running away from responsibility themselves. It is precisely such false premises that the reversal in Swedish migration policy is based on. We know that stricter legislation does not affect the number of asylum seekers. Not least Ukrainians have proved that. And fewer asylum seekers do not improve integration. It is how we invest in society and people in it that determines how well we succeed. But parties here want a small state and less for our common. To get away with it, they all use their arguments about integration. They want fewer people to seek protection here to improve integration through measures that we know with all knowledge lead to less integration. This is also what makes migration law incomprehensible. They feel that they are solving unemployment, the housing crisis or poor welfare by stepping on people on the run and, at the same time, not even making the investments and investments needed to renovate the country. Had the parties here been serious about integration, that they are worried that new arrivals will suffer from overcrowding, would the political discussion have been about how we build away the housing shortage? But what kind of housing policy do they offer? Well, the blue brown removes investment aid so that less housing is built during a historical housing crisis. Had they meant seriously that they were worried that new arrivals would be affected by unemployment, the conversation would have been about sfi from day one or how we create jobs across the country through an offensive labour market policy? We simply need to build a more spacious and stronger Sweden by investing in society and people in it. It is the most important and efficient integration engine. We have historically proven that it is perfectly possible to invest in general welfare, to reduce economic gaps and, at the same time, to offer strong reception. But the conversation is not about this. The other parties do not have that ambition; they are more interested in competing for who can treat people on the run the most badly. Now the blue-browns also want to attack the quota refugees, i.e. the most painful and vulnerable cases in the world – those specially selected by UNHCR from war-torn areas or the world's largest refugee camps. It is these very people that the blue-browns want to refuse to receive. It is also not possible to understand the logic properly. As Sweden plans for its quota, this is the most anticipated and planned reception. They suggest this in times when we have a troubled world and have never had so many people on the run. Instead of actually accepting more quota refugees, they propose the opposite. While there's competition over who's going to be the worst, people are drowning in the Mediterranean. Boats push back to capsize, and borders are militarized to keep people on the run. It is a policy, Madam President, which I am strongly opposed to. Therefore, as a first step, we need to return to the Aliens Act as it stood on 20 July 2016 when the Temporary Act came into force. Those most affected by austerity must have redress and freedom. Therefore, unaccompanied minors and young people who have been in Sweden for over a year must be granted permanent residence permits. It is children and young people who have sought refuge here from war and oppression. Most came during the time when migration policy was swinging and before it started screaming about system collapse. They've been treated terribly badly. It is political decisions that have created the problems, and it is political decisions that can remedy them. Permanent residence permits are a first step. Furthermore, the daily allowance for asylum seekers needs to be increased. The Left Party agrees with the Swedish Immigration Service's warnings that as low compensation for asylum seekers as Sweden has risk leading to people on the run being exploited in the labour market, in sexual exploitation and in trafficking. These are obvious risks that we have long warned against. The compensation has not been increased for nearly 30 years, and even then it was far too low. In view of rising prices and inflation, money is given to asylum seekers almost nothing. This is not how we should treat people seeking asylum; it is not worthy. Seeking asylum is an extreme experience. The future of the asylum seeker lies in the hands of the Finnish Immigration Service. We have long demanded a robust reception with better preparedness and greater capacity at the Migration Agency, but unfortunately the government has dismantled the reception piece by piece after the shameful so-called breathing room. The reception of refugees, from the asylum process to the situation of residence and establishment, must therefore be characterised by the centrality of individual human rights. We know that permanent residence permits and the possibility of living with one's family improve the conditions for establishing oneself in society. It shows all the experiences, all the knowledge and all the facts. Children must be given the opportunity to be reunited with their parents, and women living in Sweden without a residence permit must be protected. They are particularly vulnerable to violence. The government must change the legislation so that women's need for protection against violence and sexual abuse prevails over the Aliens Act. Finally, as the Left Party has said for many years now, Afghanistan is not safe. Since the seizure of power by the Taliban, the situation has worsened. Not a single place in Afghanistan is safe. The country suffers from starvation and is in the world's greatest humanitarian crisis. Hospitals, girls' schools and homes are bombed. The Hazzars are being persecuted, mass-murdered and subjected to terrorist attacks that trigger each other. The government should act urgently to facilitate protection for people fleeing Afghanistan in Sweden and Europe. More people must be allowed to come here, and more must be allowed to stay. Swedish Afghans waiting for decisions suffer by chance and by anxiety. Let them know that they can stay in Sweden! That is why I am in favour of reservation 41.
i-JNQYjJyZpPNjBSsj5j9BpS	Madam President, I would like Häggetorp in Linköping and Navestad in Norrköping on Skärtorsdagen, Rinkeby and Sveaparken in the middle of Örebro on Good Friday, Malmö on Easter Eve and so new disturbances in both Linköping and Norrköping on Easter Day – it was an Easter weekend that showed us all how big problems Sweden has with both crime and effective integration. We saw a Sweden that I think few of us recognize and that only violators want. We were filled with anxiety and anger when we saw and heard of these disgusting attacks on Swedish police by violent men. After all, the Passover holiday is a Christian festival that deals with Jesus'suffering, death, and resurrection and wants to convey a message of hope — hope of life and the victory of the good over evil. On the other hand, during the Passover weekend, the ugly sense of evil manifested itself in those areas that may be in the greatest need to hear about the very hope. When hundreds of masked men, but also women and children, take part in a stone's throw at the Swedish police and actively try to kill men and women who have chosen a career where they defend law and order and your and my rights and freedoms, when you throw Molotovcocktails into a city bus with passengers who have to flee from there and when rescue personnel are attacked and forced to retreat – well, then I hope we all really understand the seriousness of the situation Sweden is in right now. I also hope that we do not close our eyes to the fact that this is the result of many years of a migration policy that has not taken account of our ability to integrate. The Christian Democrats' statement that Sweden must have a tight migration policy that aims to bring down the search pressure to our country is solid, and it is a decision and a statement that will apply for many years to come. I do not believe that there is any quick fix at all on these problems that we need to correct in order to have a community that applies to everyone and not just to some. Madam President, I would like A few weeks ago I actually had the opportunity to debate integration policy for the first time here in Parliament. It was for a less fun reason – a party colleague had become ill – but for me it was an extremely interesting debate, and I thought it was liberating to talk for once about the other side of the migration policy coin, so to speak. Migration and integration are communication vessels. They should influence each other. Migration policy must and cannot be reduced to a competition in humanity where the winner is the person who says yes to the most. Sometimes it sounds like that when we debate migration policy, even though we should all know that the migration policy that Sweden is pursuing affects our country on many different levels. Furthermore, when we see that we have an integration policy that does not work, everyone is affected – those who have come to our country and those of us who have grown up here. I believe that pie-throwing, full interpretation and browning have for many years denied us the opportunity as politicians to have talks based on facts and knowledge rather than a lot of emotional expressions. Unfortunately, I have little expectation that this would change in the run-up to the elections, but I think it would be very beneficial if we could end up in a situation where we listen to each other. In a situation where we may not accept but respect all the positions that exist and where we try to understand curiously why we have landed in different positions – where perhaps we can find a broad anchor around a future migration policy. Madam President, I would like The large receiving Sweden has had a long succession of years that has created integration problems. This has made people who have come to our country and who have had dreams and hopes of a better life stuck in unemployment, passivity and exclusion. Shadow communities have been formed, gang crime is flourishing and the culture of honor has flourished. The community has crumbled to unrecognizability in some places. It has been replaced with alienation and suspicion. I want integration issues to take much more place in our debate in the future, because we need to improve. We have to succeed. Madam President, I would like Studies have shown several times that the majority of Swedes want to receive fewer refugees. It is not about xenophobia or lack of generosity – at least it is not my analysis – but I think it is a conclusion that people have come to on the basis that they have seen that Sweden has broken down. They feel that we cannot take such a responsibility that we are unable to help those who are already here. It is about the social contract: Those who are here and pay taxes want to know that they live in a Sweden that they can trust when they need help and support. That the Swedes' attitude of wanting fewer refugees has nothing to do with lack of generosity, I think we should all have seen in recent months. I do not think that we can often highlight the great generosity shown by the Swedish people and show when we in Sweden should now be able to accept the Ukrainian refugees in a dignified way. It is about civil society with all its associations and communities but also about all these amazing individuals who, despite lack of information and despite lack of guidelines and coordination, have ensured that Ukrainian refugees have been given shelter, food in their mouths and love and care. What we have seen and seen is a fantastic generosity and a willingness to stand up – a warm humanity, if you like – and nothing else. Madam President, I would like I think that the migration debate is a problem every year, because it is a huge area we are debating. We sat and looked through the reservations of the various political parties, and there are many of them – I think we Christian Democrats have 16 reservations in this area alone. I support all these reservations, but for the benefit of time, I only ask for reservation 46 under paragraph 12, which deals with the reception of asylum seekers. We Christian Democrats proposed in 2015 that Sweden should create what we call asylum applications. These are the areas to which those who come to Sweden to seek asylum are referred, and we have therefore said that we believe that these areas can be put in a good position near the major border crossings. When we launched this proposal in 2015, we met with harsh criticism, not least from the then Minister of Migration Morgan Johansson. Today, the tone is different. Since we proposed this, there has been an investigation– I think it was 2018 – that proposes something that is called the arrival centre but that bears many and great similarities with the proposal that we wanted to see in 2015. Last year – six years later – the government itself proposed that a new investigation be prepared. Another investigation, that is. This time you call it a reception center. That's good! The reason why we have proposed asylum applications and think that they should exist is that there can be a first registration and assessment of an asylum application. It will be a coherent process. The aim is to ensure rapid processing without compromising legal certainty or efficiency. Gathering it together in these areas also offers an opportunity to ensure that people do not deviate and thus put themselves in a vulnerable situation. We think that a concerted reception and a concerted decision-making process would be good for everyone. There should of course also be compulsory accommodation here. People who do not help to make their identity known – prove their identity, as it is called – or who come from safe countries can then be quickly rejected. This also applies, of course, to persons who are deemed to be a safety risk. Asylum application areas should also be staffed with medical competence. We believe that it is important to respond quickly to healthcare needs and to be able to provide psychosocial support. That preventive health promotion work begins immediately when someone comes to Sweden we think is important and good for everyone involved. I therefore request the approval of Amendment No 46.
i-BCuCjoTD5i9Tn4cvvTQ95b	Madam President, I would like I support the Liberals' reservation 28 on the free movement of LGBT people within the EU. Sweden should be the country of opportunity for those who choose to move here or are forced to seek protection in Sweden. We liberals want people to be able to move, work, study and travel here in Sweden and that people should be able to come here. Sweden's long tradition of openness to the outside world has contributed to the country's development, growth and welfare. Liberal migration policy is based on humanism and realism. When war, persecution and poverty force people to flee, we have a human responsibility for each other. I am proud of how the Swedish people have opened their arms and their doors to the Ukrainian refugees. We have a special responsibility for war that is taking place in our neighbourhood, and of course we need to do much more for Ukraine. At the same time, it is not possible to reconcile open borders with a welfare society or a functioning integration where new Swedes get a chance to find jobs and housing, to learn Swedish and to find their place in Swedish society. It is therefore essential to regulate immigration, whether it be labour force, student, family or refugee immigration. Madam President, I would like Liberals want to see a change of power with a liberal bourgeois government that will prioritise combating exclusion and segregation in Sweden. Therefore, the Liberals have over 200 proposals in the Suburban Lift to reverse developments. Liberals are clear that Sweden should not have any vulnerable areas in 2030. At the same time, the idea bank is completely empty from the Social Democrats. They have no plan or idea to bring migration policy or integration policy into line. Sometimes the government party gets a feeling and copies the Liberals' proposals, which this week concern Islamist states' funding of mosques and associations in Sweden. This could have been done many years ago in the Swedish Parliament – there has been a majority in this Parliament for many years – but the Social Democratic Government has voted against these proposals annually, which are now used instead as an election soda. Hatpropagandan and the lies against Swedish social services a couple of months ago and the riots after the Koran fires now in Easter clearly show that Sweden is a divided country. Today, in Sweden, over 600 000 foreign-born adults live on such low incomes that they are at risk of poverty and social exclusion. This corresponds to the entire population of my hometown of Gothenburg. People living in vulnerable areas must be given the opportunity to succeed in Sweden through a combination of requirements and opportunities. We are going to make Swedish requirements for citizenship, but we also need to improve SFI education and not tolerate it becoming some kind of leisure activity for adult men and women. Social integration debt must be reduced. More of those living in exclusion have to work, and in suburban schools we must never accept that half of the children, as they are today, go out without passing grades. That is why we in the Liberals have changed our migration policy in order to prioritise exclusion and integration. Sweden cannot take greater responsibility than its European neighbours. Madam President, I would like It is worrying that Magdalena Andersson does not seem to have learned anything from the mistakes of the Social Democrats during the refugee crisis in 2015. The passive policy of social democrats has come to an end. Unemployment among women born abroad has increased by 30 per cent since the Social Democrats came to power. Foreign born women currently make up one third of the long-term unemployed in Sweden. That is a huge disproportionate figure for this group. The government's policy will also mean that the Ukrainian mothers who have fled Russia's war will passivate into dependency on subsidies. It is not a worthy reception that they are allowed to live in the middle of nowhere, far from the labour market, childcare and the like, as it is today. We need to do the right thing from the start this time. The Ukrainians who will want to support themselves. They want to both pay their rent and send money to the family that is left in the war zone in Ukraine. No one knows how long this war will last, but the right thing is that the children can go to preschool and school and that the mothers can go to sfi, so that they can learn basic Swedish and can take a job while they are in Sweden. Sweden needs a new course in integration policy, both for those living in alienation in our country today and for those now fleeing from Putin's war. The Social Democrats have failed to integrate women throughout their reign. Their policy has been the real breeding ground for the parallel society, the alienation and violent riots that we see today and for the social services campaign that is going on from Islamic countries. For all of this there is a breeding ground in the failed integration policy of the Social Democrats. Madam President, I would like Liberals have a number of reservations in the report. I would like to mention two of them in particular. The first is a feminist migration policy. Liberals are behind the current quota refugee system. It is today the only safe and organised way into Sweden for refugees. But it's not fair. According to Liberals' reservation 6, migration policy should become more feminist and equal. The Finnish Immigration Service's statistics show that Sweden in 2020 again received a large majority of boys despite the fact that girls are the most vulnerable refugees in refugee camps and should have been prioritised. Equality and particularly vulnerable groups must in future be given priority in the quota refugee system. We can't have it this way. Our second reservation concerns freedom of movement within the EU also for same-sex couples. One might think that this debate is only about refugee policy, but it is actually about all kinds of migration policy. Freedom of movement within the EU must also apply fully to same-sex couples. The Court of Justice of the European Union has ruled in a judgment of June 2018 that the It is important that Sweden works in the EU to ensure that this groundbreaking judgment is fully implemented. Swedish same-sex couples should be able to move, travel, study and work in other EU countries and fully have the same rights as straight Swedish couples when they do so. Hungary and Poland should not be allowed to discriminate and use other rules for Swedish same-sex couples than they do for Swedish straight couples. Madam President, I would like The next time we debate this report, it would be best for Sweden to have a liberal bourgeois government. The Swedish people deserve better – above all, a better integration and migration policy. The Swedish people deserve a government that has a plan and idea for what you want with Sweden and Swedish integration policy. Liberals can give it to the Swedish people.
i-V1uRxZq4k5H6GDy1h1EgS9	Madam President, I would like It is almost a year since the Riksdag decided on the migration law that Sweden now has. After a five-hour debate, the changes that have now been made were adopted by a margin of one vote. Had the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats got what they agreed on then the law would have been different. The Green Party would have liked to see the law in a different form if we had had the power to decide for ourselves. We have a temporary residence permit now. It's basically not a good order. This creates uncertainty and reduces establishment and integration. Not least, this is bad for children. However, temporary residence permits provide protection. The Green Party accepted this, because we got through in the legislation other things that were very important to us. The improvement of family reunification was important. We also acquired a humanitarian protection base that is better than the previous one. It makes it possible that more children who have Sweden as their home and have a strong connection can now stay because of humanitarian circumstances. Madam President, I would like The migration debate and the migration policy have in recent months been different from what we are used to otherwise. Since the start of Russia's inhumane attack war on Ukraine, more than 4 million Ukrainians have fled to the European Union. In the past, the EU has not had migration policy as its best branch, on the contrary, but at this point it has actually accumulated better than it might have feared. The mass refugee directive was activated. It came about after the war in the Balkans in the 1990s but has more or less been in a drawer since 2001. Everyone who has come from Ukraine has thus been given the opportunity to register and receive a temporary residence permit valid until March next year, with the possibility of an extension if the circumstances are the same as now. It is only possible to say that, in this situation, the European Union has shown itself better. This also applies to Sweden, with all the people and organisations who have put up and made absolutely fantastic contributions. There would still be more to be desired in terms of state intervention. Unfortunately, it is likely that the war will not end today or in the very near future. The state terrorism that Russia is engaged in is likely to continue. If so, many people may have to stay in Sweden and other countries for a long time. Then you need to have the opportunity to learn Swedish and get different types of support to get into society. That is not enough at all. The Green Party has made such proposals, but so far they have not received support. Europe is no longer what it was before 24 February. Unfortunately, war is nothing new in the world or today, but it has been a long time since it was this close to us. However, as I said, there are also wars elsewhere, and even those wars have an impact on us in Sweden. Madam President, I would like In Afghanistan, the brutal and disgusting Taliban regime withdrew control and power this summer when the US and other countries ceased their military presence. After 20 years of trying to get another development, it cost too much. The Taliban quickly gained ground and took over. The situation of Hazzars and other groups is now lethal. The event goes on almost daily. Madam President, I would like It is now not many times that the Green Party and the Moderates agree on issues related to migration. It was different in the past, but nowadays it is rarely. However, I would have said that this summer we acted together when it came to the interpreters who had assisted Sweden and would really have risked their lives if they were still there. At the time, Minister of Migration Morgan Johansson said that it would be about 10 000 people and that it was not possible to do so. But it was possible. The Finnish Immigration Service did a horse job getting the interpreters to safety. I'm very happy that it happened and that we who worked for it then succeeded. On the issue of the High School Act and, above all, those who came from Afghanistan, the Green Party and the Moderates have not taken the same view. The other day it was four years since the law came into effect. It wasn't perfect. I don't think anyone thinks so and hasn't met anyone who said so. But I am extremely proud that it still became a reality. It has allowed several thousand people who had otherwise been expelled to stay in Sweden and build their lives instead of risking their lives on a daily basis. It was bad that the proposals for relief that were put on Parliament's table fell when the Center Party changed, but nevertheless this was very important to get to. Madam President, I would like Among the most vulnerable are those who come to Sweden through the quota refugee system. These are the ones that the Migration Board selects together with the UN. Sweden has a quota of 5 000 people per year. It is a commitment that we should be very proud of. More countries should increase their quotas. It is a way for refugees to be protected without taking dangerous roads and paying for traffickers. The fact that the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats wanted to pause this last week, as they put it, is extremely bad. These are the most vulnerable, and Sweden has the opportunity to provide them with protection. Madam President, I would like The climate is changing as a result of the emissions that have occurred and are taking place. Oil use also has other consequences. Security policy is concerned. We have seen this not least in the last few months. Oil imports and gas imports from Russia fatten Putin's warfare. But there are also other brutal regimes that benefit from the continued use of oil. It also ultimately has an impact on migration. As the climate changes, there will be more people who cannot grow and live where they do today. Today, there are no international conventions regulating this. You cannot seek asylum or other protection. In future, international conventions will be needed to regulate this. I'm in favour of reservation number seven.
i-46jVR18E9VTcgE2iLE7ewo	Madam President, I would like I will not extend this debate very much, but with the honourable Member raising this issue with quota refugees, I would like to give my picture of how we acted in the Social Security Committee. The Swedish Democrats put forward a proposal for a committee initiative. We Christian Democrats voted to prepare this committee initiative. I think Rasmus Ling was present at that meeting. Then he also heard my explanation of vote. If this matter had been prepared, we would have come up with a series of views. The background to our view that there is reason to look at such a committee initiative is that we look at the situation of refugees. This applies, in particular, to Ukraine. We believe that the refugees from Ukraine are the most in need of protection and that we must make room for them. We are therefore open to looking at the need for a temporary brake on quota refugees. At the same time, the Christian Democrats are very careful that the 500 emergency sites for the most needy, within the framework of the 5,000, should not be touched. If there had been such a temporary solution, we would have proposed that this freeze be reviewed every month. Such an initiative would have needed to be put in place in order for us to be able to support it. Furthermore, it is our firm opinion that, as soon as the situation permits, Sweden will return to the quota-refugee system as it looked before the completely disgusting invasion of Ukraine by Russia and which is causing us to have the greatest refugee disaster on European soil since the Second World War.
i-Ptekd34BZfY69TeHM3jkY6	Madam President, I would like It was good to have a clarification. I was on the committee and tried to hear everything Hans Eklind said on that occasion. What we actually took a position on was quite right if the matter were to be prepared or not. But the committee initiative was about cutting it down to zero. If now the Christian Democrats had different views, the logical thing from my horizon would have been to say no to preparing the matter. Nevertheless, I am pleased to hear that the emergency sites are essential for the Christian Democrats. For example, they were used this summer to bring the interpreters from Afghanistan here, and I know that Hans Eklind was also working on this at the time, which was a good thing. Madam President, I would like The clarification is good, but I still think that the Christian Democrats should have said no to the committee initiative as a whole.
i-DTdoC3SsFcT9APT1Ymn5UH	Madam President, I would like We stand by the fact that we announced that there had been a point in preparing this. For those who listen to the debate, I would like to make one point. We Christian Democrats want safe and legal roads to be the main method of how people come to Sweden. With humanitarian reception programmes, for example, Christians in the Middle East who are being persecuted in a dramatic and ominous way could receive temporary protection in Sweden until the situation calms down. If Sweden is to do this in the long term, we must have an opportunity to prepare for those we are going to receive. Those who come irregularly and illegally through a number of safe countries cannot be planned because we do not know what the search pressure will be. It is also for this reason that we Christian Democrats have put forward a series of proposals for how we can bring down the search pressure to Sweden so that we can deal with the serious integration problems we have and which manifested in an incredibly unpleasant way during the Easter weekend. I and the Christian Democrats are basically in favour of safe and legal ways, and then quota refugees are one of those, in which UNHCR takes out those people who are in the greatest need of help. We think this is good, and we would like to see that it is the main method of how people come to Sweden. Here I know that the Green Party and the Christian Democrats do not agree, but when it comes to safe and legal ways, we are both in favour of it.
i-5rpdp6sXfeACv5DgdeB3Q5	Madam President, I would like Of course, the Green Party is also extremely positive about safe and legal roads. It's something we've been working on in different ways for a long time. I do not know if the Christian Democrats would say that they want to abolish the right of asylum, but the statements of the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates have that meaning. However, I am genuinely unsure of how the Christian Democrats would formulate it. The proposals on safe and legal roads but without the right to have their asylum application tested in Sweden, as the Moderates are talking about, would be an incredibly dangerous development. The right of asylum has existed for a long time, and despite its disadvantages, this system is established and internationally regulated. That's why we have to stick to it. With only safe and legal channels and without the possibility of an asylum application being examined on the ground, it would be much easier for countries to completely close their borders and thus make it impossible for those in urgent need of protection to obtain it at all. Madam President, I would like The asylum course is crucial to stand up for.
i-WAjYEvffMSmzvT5NZZW81D	Madam President, I would like I call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. The speech made by the Member of the Swedish Democrats in the speaker's chair was in many ways quite appalling. It described migration and migration flows as using advertising campaigns from Sweden looking for fortune seekers to get here to live on our benefit systems. Before us, the Committee on Foreign Affairs had a debate on human rights in countries and regions. I think you can go to the Migration Agency's website and see who is applying for asylum in Sweden. When you see the largest groups seeking asylum, you can also quite easily see the state of the world. It is often people from regions who are affected by wars and restrictions on human rights. So people flee from chaos, war, misery and persecution. To paint this as a Swedish advertising campaign to bring fortune seekers here is rude, especially against all those people who live in complete misery and see as their last resort to escape from the country where they were born and raised. I think it is good to nuance the debate, because when we see this picture we also recognise people's right to flee a life that does not work for them and their family. Madam President, I would like It is quite another matter if these people are then granted asylum and are regarded as refugees or alternatively in need of protection or if they can apply for a residence permit on the basis of labour migration. There are many paths for migration. However, one should not ridicule or diminish people's right to flee and reasons for flight, which I think the representative of the Swedish Democrats did in a very sad way at the beginning of this debate. Since the Social Democrats came into government after the 2014 elections, we have worked intensively to get a more sustainable migration policy for Sweden. This work has covered the full range of migration. The situation faced by Sweden in 2015 with a sharp increase in refugee flows made the need for joint responsibility at EU level a prerequisite for dealing with the situation. At the same time, and earlier on, we also saw how the labour immigration legislation passed by the then bourgeois government had led to exploitation on the labour market and how people were brought here without valid reasons as a refugee or a need for protection and even though we had people in Sweden who could take these jobs. We saw a very liberal legislation on labour migration, one of the most liberal in the world, and we needed to correct it in order to get things right in migration policy. In the years since then, there have been many changes and many studies in various areas of migration policy. We have also made a lot of decisions. Finally, I say that we have taken decisions which are the beginning of more order and order in terms of labour immigration and asylum policy, that is, migration policy. We have decided to restrict EBO, that is, where an asylum seeker can settle. Can you live in areas that are already heavily burdened and exposed, or should you live at the Finnish Immigration Service's facilities or in other areas with less strain? There we have made changes, and we are prepared to move forward with new changes. Last week there was a report on labour immigration in which we made greater demands on, among other things, family support, including by demanding employment contracts. It is not all the way to perfect legislation on labour migration, but it is the first important steps. As has been mentioned earlier, a new migration legislation came in place last summer. During this term of office where we have been in government, the number of quota refugees has increased to 5 000 per year. It is part of the changes that have been made in migration policy during the time that the Social Democrats have been in government. What has been the result? We heard in a previous speech – the Swedish Democrats – about the factors that have led to a decrease in the number of asylum seekers to Sweden. It was explained with other parameters, such as the closure of borders and the difficulty of entering Europe. In fact, Madam President, when we compare our share of migrants who came to Europe in 2015 and the share that exists today, we are much closer to the proportion that also corresponds to our population size. There is a more even distribution of asylum seekers across European countries, which was the aim of the changes made to the legislation. Sweden will continue to take its share of asylum seekers. Today we take our share, but we not only take our share, but we take a little more. It's not a big problem. The bigger problem is that many other countries are not taking their share. The number of quota refugees has increased to 5 000, and there was a discussion in previous interventions on quota refugees and emergency sites. We can see that the places of quota refugees could be used when the Taliban again took over power in Afghanistan – when this terrible thing that we had all hoped to avoid seeing happened again. Then we could use the emergency sites. But if at that point in our reception we were limited to a few emergency sites, we would not have been able to complete the mission. We also had to increase the limit on how many of the 5 000 were allowed to be used as emergency places to receive refugees. There was now a debate that claimed that it was about taking out 20 interpreters from Afghanistan. That's not the reality. There were far more people that Sweden helped out of Afghanistan. It was not just interpreters, but it was they who had worked for Sweden in different ways and people who had been or were active in humanitarian organisations. The higher figure in the quota refugee reception was also a prerequisite for us then to be able to make the effort. Many times Sweden is praised by UNHCR because we go ahead and have a high proportion of quota refugees, and that is probably the best way to organise a refugee reception. People are fleeing to neighborhoods. UNHCR and the UN are in place, process their applications, provide them with protection and food. But that presupposes that we can then offer them a future in another country of the world. If we are to severely limit the number of quota refugees, not a single refugee will stay in a refugee camp in the neighbouring areas if they know that they can sit in that camp year after year in bad conditions. If there is to be credibility in the policy of that level of refugees to the neighbouring regions, the world's countries must be better at taking care of quota refugees and showing that they can move on from refugee camps. Now there is a policy that is more similar to that of the rest of the EU. Temporary residence permits are the general rule, and you can later be granted permanent residence permits. But then demands are made for support and for integration into society, learning the language or taking part in community introduction. However, it is not possible to have a policy that only makes demands, although it is important to make demands. It must also be given the conditions. It is about having a functioning education and housing policy and an active labour market policy. When some parties get a chance to get a budget, they begin to cut back on such things as extra services or resources for those furthest from the labour market. It does not benefit these people's ability to move forward and obtain a permanent residence permit through their own livelihood. We cannot debate migration policy without also commenting on the situation that exists today with Russia's terrible invasion of Ukraine. Now it is mainly women and children who flee the horrors of war to find a sanctuary. Sweden has so far received more than 34 000 people. How this will develop is difficult to tell. It depends entirely on how the situation will develop in Ukraine. There are now fewer people in the flow of refugees, and we also see part of the return of border crossings back to Ukraine. But it is clear that all of this can change in an instant depending on what is happening in Ukraine. It is good that the whole of Swedish society is in receipt. I am pleased that in this House there has been a consensus from day one and a great turnout around helping people fleeing Ukraine. Municipalities, regions and civil society, study associations, churches, sports associations– everyone helps. That is, of course, extremely good. You usually attack and polemize, but now I want to make an appeal to the Moderates. It is important that a large party that the Moderates think about. It becomes dangerous if groups are pitted against each other in society. It will be dangerous to say that people fleeing Ukraine can be helped only by stopping helping others. It increases the contradictions. We must be able to do both. I do not, of course, rule out situations where the burden is so great that drastic measures are needed, but we are not there today. In particular, local representatives of the Moderates are now, at regional and local level, making their reception of Ukrainian refugees conditional on stopping the reception of quota refugees. I would appeal to you to think about that rhetoric! Think about that rhetoric! Do not put people against people, especially when we talk about the most vulnerable, those who are forced to flee their homeland, their future and their family! We have the opportunity to do both.
i-7XuM88hUee1jEa9NqxhzgM	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rikard Larsson, for your speech! The daily allowance needs to be increased. It has not been raised in nearly 30 years, and even then it was too low. Apart from the fact that the low daily allowance makes asylum seekers poor somewhat, it risks leading to the exploitation of asylum seekers in the labour market, sexual exploitation or other forms of exploitation. This leads to social exclusion and mental illness. On accommodation where food is included, the daily allowance is SEK 24 per day for an adult. Where the food is not included, the compensation is SEK 71. You don't even get food for that for the day. In addition to the essentials of food, asylum seekers cannot afford a bus ticket when called to the Migration Agency. You can't afford to get to your courses in Swedish. You can't afford toiletries, even a toothbrush or diapers for your children. You can't afford anything even close to winter clothes. Why do the Social Democrats not raise the daily allowance? You can sit here year after year and raise your parliamentary salaries on the grounds that prices in society are otherwise raised. However, asylum seekers who are far below the level of poverty should not be given a boost. Why?
i-RspmxGrLFc4xZUWDjjKLUh	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. Yes, asylum seekers should of course be given both the opportunity to live in Sweden during the time they apply for asylum and day-care allowance. I can agree with the honourable Member that the daily allowance is very low. However, the priority is that we need to have a rapid processing of asylum applications with short processing times in order to get into support schemes that we are building up to establish themselves. The idea is not that, year after year, you should live in Sweden and go on daily allowance as an asylum seeker. We will have a migration policy that means that if you get a yes you should stay in Sweden, read SFI and get opportunities and resources through the establishment grants and Arbetsförmedlingen, but if you get a no you should leave Sweden. The idea is not to make a living on the daily allowance year after year. Having said that, I can agree with the honourable Member that there may be reason to see that the daily allowance is so very low and has remained still for so many years.
i-4jWR9uwjM9ngAyvf2Zc7K5	Madam President, I would like It's been standing still for 30 years, and the prices have been raised. The reality is that there are very long processing times at the Migration Agency, and it has been for years. People need to be able to afford what I brought up. We must have a dignified reception in Sweden. Nevertheless, it seems that the Social Democrats are keeping this a little open. Why do you not come forward with a proposal to increase compensation? We have also seen that Sweden is low compared to other countries. We are very low, lower than comparable countries. The Social Democrats should, of course, go forward with raising the daily allowance so that people seeking asylum here actually have a dignified life during that time. The Migration Board has been reduced for many years. The processing times are very long. People need daily allowance that is at a reasonable level so that they get a reasonable standard and can buy diapers for their children and hygiene items. Today you don't even have a toothbrush. It's at that level. The money's not worth anything. It is inflation and price increases, and the daily allowance has not been increased in 30 years. We haven't had this high prices ever in Sweden. This proposal should have been tabled a very long time ago, 30 years ago. Even then it was too low levels. Make such a suggestion! Make sure we get a worthy reception, please!
i-2UZBgPq8dBcnH1y8V7Mb3A	Madam President, I would like I think Tony Haddou has missed the change in migration policy because Tony Haddou does not want the change in migration policy. The Left says that the Migration Agency has been given reduced resources year after year. It's true. That's because we had a situation that we couldn't handle and that we didn't want in Sweden, namely the situation that when large flows of refugees came to Europe it was Sweden that took the absolute greatest responsibility. This put a heavy strain on the entire migration system. We did not have an organization that was ready, but we had to quickly build an organization. I think we increased the number of seats from 18 000 to 100 000, and we had to increase the Migration Board's employees by a number of thousands. It is clear that the strain on society leads to very long processing times. That is why we have changed migration policy on the basis that we should take our share but that we cannot take more shares when Europe does not take its responsibilities. It is in this way that we will shorten the processing times. I must also say that the Left Party stands for a policy which unfortunately means that even those who receive a 'no' will be allowed to remain in Sweden. Of course, you get to live a very long time on the daily allowance when you don't get into society. We have a different policy. We think that if you get a yes and stay, you should get establishment and support from society, but if you get a no, you should leave the country. Then, hopefully, the need for daily allowance is not as long.
i-RXa4DtmoPk44H7JJBsMa6r	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Mr Larsson with reference to my speech. Now some people in this House are talking, Madam President. I was a little disturbed. In its annual reports, Säpo reports that there are over 250 individuals who pose a security threat to Sweden. There are 250 individuals who are in Sweden and are an active threat to national security. One way for Sweden to deal with these security risks is for us to negotiate diplomatic guarantees with those countries in which they are citizens who do not violate the convention commitments that we have signed in order to be able to expel those people who are currently in Sweden. My question to Mr Larsson is why the Social Democrats oppose the opposition's demand that the government seek more diplomatic guarantees. What is the answer from Mr Larsson to all Swedish citizens who are concerned that these extremists who pose a security threat are going free on our streets right now?
i-8bPR6yMn6YMqEhbKpfs837	Madam President, I would like First of all, you should see that the Swedish Security Service has excellent cooperation with the Migration Agency. In a lot of cases, security checks are also carried out by the Swedish Security Service, which is very good. The second thing to see on this issue is that it is not at all in the way that we oppose this, as Mr Arin describes it. The Foreign Minister has been asked about this with diplomatic guarantees and has said that the government is looking at it. The challenge is precisely the one on which the honourable Member is concerned – to be able to reconcile diplomatic guarantees with the obligations of the Convention. There is a very important principle in refugee policy called – my French is not what it should be – non-refoulement. It means not expelling a person to a country where he may be subjected to torture or persecution. Nor can it be expelled to a country where the person is at risk of being deported to another country where there is a risk of torture or persecution. It is clear that the principles that exist in migration policy are very important to have in place and to have respect for. It is therefore problematic to just do what Mr Arin describes in a reservation. It is much easier to write reservations than to make politics a reality. What we are also working on, however, is that we will get return agreements with more countries so that they receive their citizens who are expelled from Sweden.
i-EKCjM5MK8QKkUejjMSBvDA	Madam President, I would like It is true that this is not an easy matter to deal with. But obviously, Mr Larsson agrees with the opposition that we should have diplomatic guarantees. I therefore see no contradiction in the support of the Social Democrats. We will not receive diplomatic guarantees from every country. But we must do our utmost. Just look at our neighbor Denmark. Everything that seems impossible in Sweden the Danes on the other side of the bridge succeed with. We can take the case of the six imams. It is about the authorities – Säpo and the Migration Agency – having done their part and having fulfilled their commitments. But then it is up to the Swedish Government to fulfil its commitment and put pressure on these countries, including to obtain diplomatic guarantees that are legally secure and do not violate any convention commitment by, for example, there is a risk of torture or the death penalty. But the issue needs to be addressed. The longer the time passes, the greater the security threat to Sweden. Confidence and tolerance among Swedish citizens for the reception of refugees is decreasing. All of this is blurted on. All of this causes tolerance for those who do not have a Swedish appearance to decrease day by day. It ranges from riots and gang crime to flatness in return and dwindling. It is also about the signal from politics that you take responsibility and do your utmost. So my question is once again: what steps will the Social Democrats take to ensure that Sweden has more agreements with recipient countries, countries with which we do not have agreements today, on diplomatic guarantees so that we can expel more people who are sentenced to expulsion?
i-6gAb1sMAbaUtgEVB29b9M6	Madam President, I would like As I said in my previous answer, this may be one of several tools, but it is a problematic tool. In the debate on migration policy, what is now coming from Mr Arin is always so clear: the link that has been made by the Swedish Democrats for a long time and is now increasingly being made by the Moderates. I think that the honourable Member should also think about what it does for exclusion areas, violence and crime when one consistently, always, links migration with crime. When the people who grow up in areas where they have quite little chance of creating a good life from day one get to hear leading politicians in the Swedish Parliament stand and talk about migrants and refugees as the same as criminals, it eventually becomes a bit as they say. In the end, they think: That's probably how society thinks I should be, and I guess I can be. Instead, I think we should recognise all the problems we have with integration. We're going to deal with all the problems that exist. We're going to support people getting into our society. But we also need to talk about all the refugees who have come to Sweden and who now during the pandemic and throughout all time contribute to creating the society that we have and that we are very proud of.
i-5XQBjUVNKu4rvLQxreNEum	Madam President, I would like First of all – Ludvig Aspling from the Swedish Democrats is a debateable gentleman. Some who are watching this debate may wonder why Ludvig has not requested a reply when Rikard Larsson uses part of his speaking time to review and describe the policy of the Swedish Democrats. Rikard Larsson should of course have the right to do so. I would just like to inform you that Ludvig Aspling is not present in the Chamber; that is why he has not requested a reply. I was actually going to ask for a reply at Rikard Larsson for two reasons. One is that when he reviewed the policy of the Swedish Democrats, I came to think of something that I would like to agree with the Member of Parliament. Every year in Finland, money is set aside to provide accurate information on so-called hotspots, i.e. places where people gather and then try to get into the EU, for example. On such hotspots there is a great deal of information, not least by smugglers. The Finnish Government has therefore set aside funds every year, not to black out its own country in any way, but to obtain adequate and accurate information. We know that Sweden is struggling with this problem: that there is an expectation in the person who comes to Sweden to meet something other than what he or she actually meets. I would like to ask the Member of Parliament whether this could be something that the Member of Parliament could also see a finesse with. We Christian Democrats do. The second question is more just a reflection. As far as quota refugees are concerned, there is a tendency to turn black and white in debates. I'm not saying that Rikard Larsson has been. I would just like to inform you that the Minister, Anders Ygeman, himself has said only a month ago that the freezing of quota refugees cannot be ruled out.
i-4eSEUfMtDNCdr2bp1qyJ17	Madam President, I would like It is a little interesting that it is the Christian Democrats who go up and speak for the Swedish Democrats. We can only conclude that cooperation has gone considerably further and considerably faster than we might have thought. I will honestly say – although I am not going to review an individual Member – that I think that, if it is a debate on migration policy and you are the third largest party in this country and say that migration is the most important issue, you should be able to take part in the debate. That is why I will continue to take the liberty of commenting on the Swedish democrats' migration policy from the speaker's seat, whether they have then chosen to leave the debate or to remain. With regard to the first question of correct information on hotspots, I can continue on the trail with the Swedish Democrats and say that I definitely do not want a system in which Swedish politicians go down to vulnerable areas and leave brochures to those who have a very difficult life ahead of them. That kind of promotions I pay a lot for. The more thought-out, serious part of the answer would be that, when Hans Eklind and I sat on the Migration Committee, we looked at this with push and pull factors – what makes you run to a country. It is a bit of a nid picture that there is some form of land-hopping among refugees. The vast majority of refugees flee to the place where they can feel secure and where they can have a future. This also means that you can move through several countries to the place where you can find your livelihood and feel secure.
i-RRUE6D2nFcQJ1DDf7A5LWJ	Madam President, I would like I, like Rikard Larsson, reserve the right to describe not least my own politics – I usually invest more in it than in keeping and describing other people's politics. I believe that the Christian Democrats' policy will win in the long run, not least if we are allowed to talk about it ourselves. I must note that Rikard Larsson is probably not so familiar with how Finns work with this with correct information. The Finns have never been down to hand out flyers. Of course, they make use of digital technology and ensure that it gets there. I don't really understand why this flyer thing came up as a variant. As to why one person chooses one country over another, there is quite a lot of research. It's pretty much in agreement, even if it's sprawling-- you're supposed to be honest and say that. There are three clear reasons for choosing one country over another, and they can easily be summarised as follows. The first is about the diaspora. If there are people from their own country, it increases the likelihood of choosing that country. The second reason concerns the possibility of obtaining a residence permit. We saw this when the Migration Agency introduced permanent residence permits for Syrians in 2013. Then traffic increased to Sweden but not to any other country, because there had not been this rule in place. The third reason concerns the design of welfare systems, i.e. the possibility of taking part in welfare. A Danish study from 2019, I think, called The Welfare Magnet states just that. Welfare is a magnet that attracts people to choose one country over another. But it is absolutely true that it is not possible to say absolutely what it will be like, because it is sprawling. However, if you read the research reports, you can see that it is these three reasons that are highlighted by the researchers themselves.
i-5ZwTBE4CHJDsiQ6M8NEt5T	Madam President, I would like Now we have a wonderful debate where we can talk about various research reports. In research reports that have asked migrants for the reasons, there are often diffuse images or vague reasons why they want to go to a particular country. When you run away, you haven't really decided which country you want to go to. There is quite a lot of research on this, but, as the honourable Member says, there are also a lot of things going on. The honourable Member is absolutely right about the first recital, the diaspora. I think that is correct. As far as the design of welfare systems is concerned, it is probably a little too easy to say that it is about the construction of benefit systems. The research I have been looking at shows that it is more about society as a whole. Democracy, gender equality and decent equality are characteristic of attractive societies that you also want to live in. I have no problem with Sweden being perceived as very democratic, equal and equal. I want to keep it that way. I want to continue to have the welfare society we have and I am proud that people can choose to come to Sweden. However, what I am opposed to is the argument that the flows of refugees are in principle following some form of welfare and benefit shopping. It does not support research. Then I would like to mention what was said in the previous line on quota refugees and Anders Ygeman. I guess it was more of a reflection. It is true that the Minister for Migration has said exactly that, as I said in my speech. One can come to a point where there may be a need to make changes in migration policy because the burden is so great.
i-VwuMAbKUuKkYTWApZfUJGC	Madam President, I would like Today, we are discussing changes in unit rates in common facilities, a government bill that we have been waiting a lot for. It's a long-awaited one. It contains changes that the Swedish Democrats have supported for a long time. Co-operative associations consist of several properties that together can manage a joint plant. It can be about courtyards, playgrounds and sewers, but in most cases it is about managing individual roads. The system of community facilities through community associations provides a very good economic benefit for the whole of society: the state, the individual, the community associations and the local community. It is, of course, important that we also continue to enable this type of community association to operate in view of the positive effects that we see from these. We also know that there are very many community associations in Sweden, 45 000 of which 31 000 manage individual roads. It is important that we continue to work to remove the bureaucratic parts that put obstacles in the way of the collective solutions, collectives and associations that Sweden is known for. That is why this proposal is also very good. An amendment is made to the Construction Act and an opportunity is introduced for the joint societies to decide for themselves on a change in the unit rates of the joint society. On the other hand, the Swedish Democrats support the follow-up motion that, among others, the Christian Democrats have brought about that they should have digital opportunities to introduce the changes. There shall be a digital service vis-à-vis the Land Surveying Authority in relation to the approval of the changes in percentages. We also know that the Swedish National Audit Office's review report Property formation in Sweden – processing times, fees and reform needs have revealed a wide range of legislative changes that the National Surveying Authority would need to enable more automated decision-making processes. We look forward to the proposals and possible changes in this area that the government can make in the future. Until then, however, we still want to approve reservation 2 from the Swedish Democrats, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats. I'm in favour of it.
i-Axt2JgsNaueyvceZPV7P8L	Madam President, I would like The problems with long processing times at the National Surveying Authority are known and long lasting. As the previous speaker mentioned, it was only recently that the Swedish National Audit Office strongly criticised how Lantmäteriet manages its mission and that it is the processes of Lantmäteriet that are part of it. Cases will remain pending for at least six months before they are assigned to a case officer and will begin to be processed. Another problem is the lack of surveyors. People with the right education choose to apply to the consulting offices of the large construction companies and to municipalities that pay better. The Swedish National Audit Office believes that it is an out-of-date regulatory framework that governs property formation and that the government has not taken any initiatives in this area. Now that the government submitted its proposal to change the rates of participation in joint ventures through Anders Ygeman on 17 February, one could call it such an initiative, but it is not the government that has taken the initiative without the Parliament. It is now ten years ago that I and the Center Party raised the question of introducing the so-called Finnish model, which allows joint societies to decide for themselves on percentages. The Swedish National Audit Office also highlights Finland as an example for Sweden to follow. They also have an organisation for building construction similar to Sweden, but some regulations are dispositive. That is to say, they can be agreed off so that the parties involved can decide for themselves how to calculate a percentage while it becomes the Authority's job to keep track of what has been achieved. It is not only once that the Riksdag has stated that a joint society that manages a joint venture, such as a road block, should be allowed to decide for itself whether the units are divided. In the motion report after the motion report, we in the Civil Committee have addressed announcements to the government that it will change the law, so that among other things the requirements of the National Association of Individual Roads, REV, are implemented. The Construction Act will now introduce an opportunity for joint ventures to decide whether the shares of two thirds of the shareholders agree on it at a general meeting, and this will have the same legal effect as if it were decided at a meeting, but only after the decision has been approved by the Land Surveying Authority. It is therefore still worrying about the handling times of Lantmäteriet. We fear from the Center Party that matters in the form of decisions by the joint decision-making bodies on unit rates may be submitted to the agency for registration and therefore will not be formally valid until after a very long time. That is why we have called for a longer deadline to be set for the establishment by the Agency of the joint decision from the point of view of the Lantmäteriet. What then happens in the event of a delay, let's leave it unsaid. That is something the government will have to come back with. However, the basis should be that a decision taken by the joint venture should apply even if it has been registered after the Lantmäteriet's deadline has expired. Furthermore, it needs to be clarified what basis the authority needs to receive and who is responsible for ensuring that it is complete. This is a point of view that comes from Sweden's Municipalities and Regions and from the answer from two of the municipal surveyors – they are a few after all – which we have taken on board and which we describe in our reservation 1, to which I request approval. While regulatory simplifications such as these are welcome, there is a well-founded concern that the government and the authority somehow manage to complicate it by unclear instructions and slow decisions. Finally, we should nevertheless praise Lantmäteriet for their work in keeping together and driving digitalisation and geodata in community building. The basis for this is the order that we in Sweden have had on the building since the 17th century and which is extremely important to protect property rights and secure the social building also in the future. We in the Center Party want to take this on board, and our third proposal is that in this area too, e-services should be developed to facilitate the exchange of the coordinates and data from land registers that form the basis for determining the percentages. Here we have received support from several parties, which is gratifying. I hope it's breaking open doors, because digitalisation is something that's going on. However, I believe that digitalisation is precisely what is required in order for this long-awaited reform and regulatory simplification in surveying authorities to be successful.
i-E6ZqWZwH5Ybh5G7F7GsSta	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the CU16 report to be approved. The Government's proposal Change in participation rates in joint ventures is a reform longed for by many of the 45 000 community associations in our country. I myself have been involved in organising a seminar for knowledge acquisition here in the house to highlight and discuss how this can be done. The reform means that instead of having to wait, in many cases for far too long, for the maintenance of a surveying agency, a joint society at a meeting can make the necessary changes to the participation rates among its members themselves. With the amendment of the law, they can make decisions with a two thirds majority at the meeting, with the approval of the Land Surveying Authority thereafter. An important part of the reform that has not been lifted by previous speakers but which is important to us is the legal certainty of minorities and other stakeholders such as third-country nationals and the public. With the increased possibilities to change the percentages of the joint societies themselves, there is also a great responsibility, including the production of accurate data that does not conflict with the Construction Act. We Social Democrats really believe that this reform will make it easier and cheaper for the partners in joint societies and create opportunities for them to regulate their own relations. The combination of the qualified majority of the reform in the decision-making process, the possibility of blame for the decision of the general meeting and the examination of the land surveying authority provide a high level of protection for the interests of the minority, third parties and the general public. Increased opportunities must also be combined with legal certainty. We look forward to this reform and believe that it will make it easier for many communities to deal with the current misinformation that they have chosen not to go to Lantmäteriet because of the long processing times and the rather expensive execution. Madam President, I would like Once again, I support the committee's proposal in the CU16 report.
i-ET8XWwdRrcxSyNqfAz1kTs	Madam President, I would like A better basis for action in the housing market is being discussed here tonight. It is about the Housing Supply Act, and when you hear the name, you can imagine that it should be about some form of perhaps not quick solution but, however, a solution to the housing shortage in Sweden. However, it is part of the long-term planning of society. The Government's amendments in this area through the bill that has been tabled at Parliament's table contain a number of shortcomings. Based on this, the Swedish Democrats have also followed up on the bill. We believe that there is no analysis of the existing housing stock compared to the expected demand for housing in the future, which is also considered by Boverket in its referral. The need for leases also needs to be analysed. Today, there are a number of different kinds of people who are in demand by home buyers and tenants. If you look at SBAB's surveys in this area, where they measure the supply of new housing and put it against households' economic demand and migration patterns, the latest report of December 2021 shows that there is currently overproduction of rental properties in relation to purchasing power. At the same time, it is noted that far too few small houses are being built. The municipalities simply lack knowledge of demand and what forms of housing are needed on the market today. We believe that more evidence is needed, which means that it should be included in the Housing Supply Act to investigate the need and demand for more tenure forms. Today, small houses are requested by seven out of ten people. There is a great demand for this form of lease. We also know that rental purchase models and property rights could give a boost to the market if you got more knowledge about it and more information about what demand is in the municipalities. Another issue that is constantly missed by municipalities is to anticipate the needs of special groups for housing, such as older people, economically weak, students and others. That is why we think it is wrong that the government is today going forward with a bill that means that it does not have these groups in focus when changing the Housing Supply Act. This is also supported by remi's replies from county boards and organisations representing these groups. We need to continue to measure the needs of specific groups so that it can be included in the long-term planning of municipalities. In view of this, Madam President, I would like to vote in favour of reservation 1.
i-JiQm6sbtWet4ZigyWJ5jF6	Madam President, I would like The proposal that we are going to debate and decide on is referred to as a better basis for action in the housing market. That it is better is something that must stand for the government. We in the Center Party see that there are elements in the proposal that make it worse, and we want to change that. This is a view that we share with several consultation bodies, such as the authority Boverket, which will provide this. They feel, as we do, that the basis does not improve because municipalities are provided with information that states whether or not there is a housing shortage in general terms. I believe that the municipalities can come up with this themselves, even if Boverket does not provide them with such statistical data. What we are missing from the Center Party is an analysis of the housing needs of specific groups. In a municipality there may be a lack of, for example, housing that at cost, location and standard is adapted precisely for the group older people. However, it is explicitly stated in the bill that the requirement for an analysis of housing needs for specific groups should be removed. It is therefore a legitimate question to the representatives of the government in what way it is an improvement to find out less when municipalities will make their analysis of housing needs. How can municipalities make sustainable and accurate housing supply policies if it is not based on a knowledge of the need for housing for disabled people, for asylum seekers, for the elderly or for young people? For a growth municipality like my own, the analysis can be based on the assumption that a certain number of dwellings in different tenure forms are required to cope with migration and birth rates. But what about a municipality that has an ageing population but a surplus of homes for families? We are seeing today, Madam President, a demand for more rural housing. With such knowledge, municipalities can plan public transport and preschool places for those who have learned and been allowed to work from home. At the same time, there are municipalities that have successfully mapped desert houses, contacted their owners and brought them together with a buyer. The Boverket objects that the proposal does not focus sufficiently on the market conditions that exist in relation to what is offered in the existing stock. Then it is, note well, Boverket that will produce the basis while they themselves belong to the consultation bodies that are just calling for an analysis at municipal level of the need vis-à-vis special groups, of which I have already mentioned some – older people, immigrants, students and disabled people. Madam President, I would like There is a housing shortage in some form in 207 of the country's 290 municipalities. The fact that municipalities state this is based on knowing the forms in which there is a housing shortage and in which it does not. The municipalities should plan to create a balance between needs and demand by planning for their construction based on needs. Our joint reservation calls for the government to come back with a bill that will require an analysis of the housing needs at group level. The Center Party has its own reservation that demand should also be included in the analysis. This contrasts with what the government proposes that the analysis should show which housing needs are not met, unlike who needs housing. It goes without saying that such an analysis must be based on what is needed. It's natural to start at that end. That is why I am in favour of reservation 1.
i-2KTukCPB3w8hvhLBbvvLro	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. Madam President, I would like Sweden continues to suffer from housing shortages. The lack of housing leads to individual suffering, social segregation and reduced labour market mobility. That is why the government's successful housing policy has also been so important. Since 2017, we have a positive building surplus in Sweden, which means that we gradually reduce the housing shortage. 350 000 homes have been built since 2014. However, continued positive development depends on maintaining the pace of construction at these record-high levels. Unfortunately, the right-wing conservative parties The Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats, through their budget reservation last autumn, have removed state support for rental rights. The investment aid has resulted in more rental apartments being built but also in these rental apartments having a rent that is on average 20 per cent lower than in other new productions, which means that more people can afford to demand these newly produced dwellings. But as usual, when the right-wing conservatives get their policies through in the Swedish parliament, it is a policy that benefits the rich and disadvantages people with ordinary incomes. As usual, there is an overconfidence that more market and less politics will solve people's problems. The consequence of the policy of right-wing conservatives is that the housing responsibility that rests heavily on Sweden's municipal politicians becomes even more difficult to cope with. Many of our 290 municipalities do not take their housing responsibility seriously at all. Very often, it is precisely the right-wing conservatives who also rule in these municipalities. But, Madam President, Sweden can and must perform better. The Government's proposal we are debating today proposes changes to the Housing Supply Act to improve the government's ability to follow up on Parliament's housing market targets and the municipalities' ability to plan housing supply. The proposals mean that the requirements for the analysis that will form the basis for the data in the municipality's housing supply guidelines will have a clearer focus on the housing shortage in their own municipality. The amendments introduce a requirement that the data in the guidelines be based in particular on an analysis of the housing needs that are not met in the local housing market. An analysis covering the housing needs of all residents of the municipality is estimated to give municipalities good opportunities to focus on where the largest local housing needs are located and to better plan the housing supply in their own municipality. Madam President, I would like If we're going to break the gang's recruitment, it's crucial that we break the segregation. And should we break segregation is a good and appropriate accommodation for everyone absolutely central. It is not good enough for moderate-controlled metropolitan municipalities such as Solna, Täby and Lidingö to plan only for expensive villas and flats on market terms and to deal with social dumping, where housing is purchased in other municipalities to get rid of people who cannot afford to live in multi-million villas, instead of meeting their housing needs in their own municipality. No, Madam President, the Swedish people deserve better than moderate housing policy. Moreover, I believe that profits in welfare should be banned.
i-Pcc4ap1nJRt7AnD33tLrg3	Madam President, I would like I could not help asking for a reply to Joakim Järrebring's speech. It was about everything but the substance of the matter, that is, the central question of what needs the municipalities should meet. It is symptomatic of Mr Järrebring's speech that he adds an opinion such as that Carthage should be destroyed. I think it was the philosopher Cato who once made the opinion: moreover, I believe that Mr Carthage should be destroyed. I'm sure they should. But it's been a long time since it happened. It's just like the construction subsidies. The construction subsidies that Joakim Järrebring hails are designed in such a way that they satisfy all needs, and they also go to the well-situated areas that he often rallies over. This means that they go to subsidise housing for people who can afford to pay. What we are asking here and what Joakim Järbring has not answered is how these new guidelines meet and map the needs of specific groups, that is, the groups that we might – provided we had chosen to prioritise this – want to provide some kind of support or benefit. The only thing that will result in is that the municipalities which, in the eyes of the Social Democrats, do not build enough are pointed out, whereas we from the Center Party and other reserve members believe that the most important thing is to know which housing municipalities need to build and which groups of housing needs the municipalities need to meet in their housing plans. If Joakim Järrebring could answer that question, I would be grateful.
i-JjKtRSd3ApiCuGZNSbwRWZ	Madam President, I would like What a pleasure that my speeches can engage Ola Johansson!
i-FhpzaFzJRy9DqHjdurZR9g	It is obvious, as the government writes in the bill, that a comprehensive lighting of the housing needs includes all the people in the municipality – even the special groups that Ola Johansson points out. That is the whole idea: a comprehensive lighting of the housing needs. In fact, I do not understand why there is a reservation on this issue, but we may be wiser in a few years' time and can note that the ambitions of the Government and the Government's proposal for a comprehensive lighting of the housing needs do not meet the requirements for housing for specific groups. Well, then we'll have to reconsider. But the ambition of the government and the Social Democrats is that we should have a comprehensive basis: What is the housing need? What does the market fail to do? What measures must the municipality therefore make special efforts on?
i-P6gXekTvs1FgU52MvmTS5t	Madam President, I would like One of the points in my speech was precisely to focus on which homes are in demand. Do people want to live rurally? Do people want to live with special accessibility? Do people want to live near public transport? Do people want to live in a rental apartment or own their dwelling? That's the kind of mapping I think is most important, that is, of what people want. Now, the focus is on what's not being built, and it can be one aspect, but what's not being built can be a lot of different things. Joakim Järrebring is surprised that there is a reservation, but that is not surprising. The government's own authority Boverket, which will produce this data, feels that it would have been better if the need had also been analysed among specific groups. Therefore, it is particularly surprising that the government chooses to ignore it and make a proposal that only describes housing needs based on general terms, as Joakim Järrebring says. There are older people, there are young people, there are newly arrived and disabled people, and for each of these groups there may be a special need that the government now does not think it is important to map. Why?
i-5McUEWzAwBULRzBdKXDcTB	Madam President, I would like If the market meets demand, there is no housing shortage in this area. This is the whole starting point for an analysis of needs based on how the market has failed in housing supply. So I do not understand that definition; it is not that need and demand are the same thing. I think we fully agree on that. There is nothing to prevent a municipality from describing in its analysis precisely which groups' needs are not met on the market. It is even the case that this is the requirement: a comprehensive analysis of what the housing needs of all citizens actually look like. If a municipality does not have the needs of the groups listed by Ola Johansson in its speech, it has not done a comprehensive analysis. If you meet the requirements of the new Housing Supply Act and make a comprehensive needs analysis, the needs of all groups will be included in the analysis, and efforts from the municipality will be directed directly towards the needs that exist.
i-R1v3DVVE74nBh5rft2jvfL	Madam President, I would like It is wonderful to be in the Chamber with our dear committee colleagues this evening. We are here to debate the CU5 report. It is a motion report with motions from general exercise time in the area of rental law and so on, and I think we will hear a lot about that in this debate. It remains to be seen! For the Green Party, it is a fundamental premise that a diversity is needed in order to build a sustainable society. There is a need for a mix of people, but also for housing and tenure forms. Central to housing policy should be the issue of a safe home for all. We need several different functions in the same area. Housing, work and school should be around the same corner as commerce and entertainment, and there should be close proximity to easily accessible everyday bike and public transport trips, as well as on foot. In the same way, we want to see a diversity in the housing stock: a mix of rentals, flats, owner-occupied apartments, terraced houses and villas. Diversity is the key to sustainable society in all its different perspectives. It is also about collective rental rights, generational housing, village communities and preferably even more new, innovative solutions in terms of leases. We want to reward diversity because it reduces the risk of segregation and creates a more vibrant society. Different forms of housing should be mixed and available in all areas, and we believe that it is particularly important to also protect rental rights. The fact that we have a shortage of housing in Sweden is nothing new, and it is not something that has arisen in recent years – even if it sounds so from the right hand side. On the contrary, much more was built during the time of the Green Party in government; it has not been built as much since the days of the Million Programme as in recent years. Still, we can see that too little is being built, and we need to remedy that. Madam President, I would like In connection with the decision on the State budget for 2022, the Parliament has decided to phase out investment support for rental housing and housing for students after the turn of 2021/22. The fact that, when the construction of rental apartments has finally begun, the carpet of the rental apartments that were actually planned to be built but where the application had not yet been submitted is nothing more than a disaster. I think it is extremely irresponsible on the part of the blue-browns. It would have been one thing if you had had a lot of suggestions and solutions of your own – if initiatives had been lined up after initiatives to make sure that you also got off the ground – but it echoes empty on that point. We are once again faced with the arguments we have faced over the last ten years: that will have to be resolved by someone else, some other time, somewhere else. That is surely the market, and we have not seen that the market has solved this. Madam President, I would like We have a housing shortage in Sweden. A large group of people are completely outside the housing market. For this group to enter the housing market, more apartments with reasonable rents are needed. It should not take a thick wallet or rich parents to get into the housing market. Karolina Skog has recently handed over her investigation Lower the threshold to a good home to the Minister for Housing, and I look forward to proposals from that investigation becoming a reality. In this report, we in the Green Party have two reservations. One is about the promotion of owner-occupied apartments and more, and the other is about the issue of rental purchasing systems. It's reservation number 13. As late as spring 2021, i.e. a year ago, the Riksdag addressed a second announcement to the government to investigate a rental purchase system. During 2017 and 2020, the Ministry of Justice has developed preparation documents through consultation meetings with the relevant authorities and organisations, and we can conclude that there are no market requests to regulate this model for rental purchases. We can also note that several housing companies, both private and public, are already working favourably with rental models in current legislation. So it's possible. As there are already well-functioning rental purchase models, it is doubtful, in our opinion, whether there is actually a need for a change in the regulatory framework. Perhaps other incentives are needed. In this context, we can also note that a recent study has been carried out on first-time buyers in the housing market. In that report there are exciting proposals which may give more people the opportunity to buy their homes. I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 13 in this part of the report. Madam President, I would like Earlier in the debate, the Housing Security Act was mentioned. There were different parts that were debated. I would like us to tighten it up so that all municipalities ensure that they contribute to the housing of different groups. I also believe that this is the ambition of the government with this legislation. Both carrots and whips may be needed in that work. In order for those furthest from the housing market to get into it, I think we need to develop the model of rent guarantees so that more people can get a rental contract. I believe that we need to see the ability to pay rather than the level of income as a starting point for people to be able to demand a rental contract. We also need to review the housing allowance, even if it is not the subject of this debate. This too has been investigated quite recently, and I hope that we will see proposals in this area quite soon. Today's community building is not least about housing construction and getting away from the housing shortage we have and eradicating homelessness. A safe home is a right, and I and the Green Party will continue to fight for that right. Diversity is the key to the sustainable society of the future, not least in the residential area.
i-H9M6kMzD1aZ4GG7gLfQkSE	Madam President, I would like The rental right is an important and crucial part of our housing market. Through its flexibility, its simplicity, its accessibility and its belongings, rental law is a fundamental idea in general housing policy. For those who do not want, can or have time to own, the rental right is the solution to the housing issue. But the lease is under great pressure. The tax system is unfair to the tenant, the market exploits the tenant and the right looks down on the tenant. That is why we Social Democrats often promote rental rights. We do not think in any way that it is better than any other form of housing, but it needs the support because it is under pressure. The tenant has no huge support via interest deductions or root deductions. The tenants are often in the hands of right-wing politicians in the municipalities who do not hesitate to sell out their homes. To be on the tenant's side is my duty as a social democrat. The struggle for rental law is a struggle for equality. It is a struggle driven by solidarity and the freedom for people to choose their place of residence. The Social Democrats have actively pushed ahead during their term of office to create better conditions for tenants. The government has made many improvements despite strong resistance from a right-wing majority in this hall. In order to break the segregation and to protect rental rights as a form of housing, we have taken strong action against the black rental market. We have also introduced rules to grab rogue landlords. It is completely unreasonable that criminal or rogue landlords charge usury rents and offer disgusting housing conditions. A major victory during this term of office is the issue of seizure protection in the event of a wrecked apartment. In the past, you lost the right to your home if the apartment was destroyed, whether you were to blame for it or not. The apartment could burn down. You wouldn't have done anything, but you were on the street. Through persistent and really long-lasting work, we have managed to amend this legislation. The tenant's protection has been strengthened, and the Swedish rental market is more secure today than it was before the beginning of the term. When you're weakest, society must be on your side. Madam President, I would like It is not possible to talk about the rental right in Sweden without mentioning the investment support. Since housing is a constitutional right, we must take joint responsibility for building it. Through investment support, the pace of construction has reached historical levels, and we are building for the first time on decades over the forecasted need. We need to do that, because it has been built far too little for far too long – to the advantage of property owners, of course, but to the disadvantage of ordinary people. That is why the right-wing, logically enough, also chooses to abolish aid every time they get the chance. The interest doesn't lie. That is also the case with regard to the proposals that we have not received in this House. We wanted to make it easier for tenants to handle necessary renovations. That's what the right said no to. We wanted to strengthen the protection of the person who rents from a private individual. That's what the right said no to. We wanted to finance the construction of housing. That's what the right said no to. Madam President, I would like What future needs do we see for tenants? In addition to the suggestions and needs for everyone in Sweden – that we should break the segregation, that we should take back democratic control of welfare and that we should carry out the green transition and be at the forefront of the new jobs – there are of course specific needs for Sweden's tenants. The first question, which is of great concern to many of our older tenants today, is whether the pension will be increased by SEK 1 000 tax-free this summer or not. That these pensioners and tenants cannot get answers from SD and M to whether they will vote for the pension increase is really bad. It causes concern, and it once again reveals the real interests of these parties. Anyone who protects Sweden's pensioners should undoubtedly, as a matter of course, be able to vote in favour of the guarantee supplement. The second issue is the renovations. There are basically two kinds of renovations: concept renovations and total renovations. Both forms are problematic, and the problems with them have different solutions. One thing is certain: the so-called renov bills must, of course, stop. How it is to be done is a huge challenge because we cannot even get through a longer phase-in of rent increases in this House. The right says no; they stop this. The same lot abolished the renovation aid available to reduce rents when renovated. It contributed directly to lower rents, but the Right abolished it. In order to overcome the concept renovations, we must either reintroduce a acquisition law or review tenant influence. This also applies, of course, to total renovations. The Berghamra case in Solna testifies very much to this. The third issue that needs to be addressed is new production. Investment aid obviously needs to be reintroduced, but more financial instruments need to be put in place. For us to be able to build throughout the country and for the countryside to have the joy of building cranes and the belief in the future that they represent, we must jointly help to finance this construction. The right has cheered over start-up loans to the owned property – what if they could show the same enthusiasm for loans to the rented property. Madam President, I would like A fourth issue, which is extremely important, is that we need to review the use of rental apartments by criminal elements. Of course, it applies to all apartments, but now it's about rents. The segregation must be broken, and we must be able to crack the gangs. Then it is not reasonable for criminals to be able to engage in illegal activities in full transparency in staircases. We have seen that in some cases it is absurdly difficult to evict criminals. Reviewing this must be a priority for the future. Although many in this House, particularly some party leaders, have an unreasonably high tone in relation to the disadvantaged areas and even call on the police to shoot people, it is the tenants who live in the disadvantaged areas who pay the highest price for what is happening. It's their cars that burn. It's their windows that are broken. Most importantly, it is their children who are being shot. It's their children who are getting involved in crime. That's why we have to break the segregation and break the gangs. Madam President, I would like I shall conclude by saying something about our reservations. I'm sorry to overwhelm my speaking time a little. Basically, these reservations should not be needed, because there is only one in the line of the announcement bingo that M and KD are dealing with in this House. The government has looked at the issues and, together with the industry, concluded that there are already conditions for both owner apartments and rentals to be implemented. So this is just another proof of the interest of the right. It's about owning. The only thing that the right is able to agree on in these reports is that we should own more, that is, less rent. The tenant – persona non grata in the world of the right – does not bother and should preferably disappear or be a marginal phenomenon in some form of social housing. Madam President, I would like Thus, the dividing lines in Swedish politics for autumn's election are clear. For the tenant, it is absolutely crucial that the country continues to be governed by a Social Democratic-led government. Of course, I agree with our reservations, but I choose to accept only reservation 12 and the other draft in the report. Madam President, I would like As Mr Cato the Elder said, I believe that profits in welfare should be banned.
i-GYVW16aRdEeVSYSiT2vTo	Madam President, I would like Nearly one and a half million households in Sweden currently live in rental apartments. The right to rent is clearly an important form of housing for a well-functioning housing market. For many, the rental right represents the first step into the housing market. A tenancy agreement is well-suited by the fact that no cash payment is required. For example, young people are often short-term residents. They move more often. Maybe they take a sabbatical in one place, study in another and start working on a third. Then it is well suited to rent a dwelling. Renting a dwelling can also be well suited later in life, for example when someone wishes to test live elsewhere or sell the villa in favour of a more accessible apartment in the autumn of their age. A rental right is also suitable for many people between youth and old age. Freedom of choice is something to protect. In a well-functioning rental market, it is quick and easy to move to and from a rental apartment. That is certainly not how it works today. Today's rental legislation generally creates a poorly functioning housing market with widespread segregation and large differences in conditions between different age groups. That has been the case for too long, and it needs to be addressed. Madam President, I would like Today, the House is dealing with the civil committee's report No. 5 Right to rent, etc. Fortunately, there are two proposals for announcements that could represent a few steps towards a better functioning rental market. We Moderates, together with the Christian Democrats, Liberals, the Swedish Democrats and the Center Party, have once again gathered us in proposals, both for the promotion of owner-occupied apartments and for the introduction of rental buying systems. Madam President, I would like Conversion from a right-of-occupancy apartment to a right-of-occupancy apartment means an opportunity for residents to gain greater influence over their housing. It also means an opportunity to obtain relatively quickly more owned dwellings in areas that are currently dominated by rental apartments and where the market conditions for new production of residential units or owner-occupied apartments are poor. Enabling larger parts of owned housing in areas dominated by rental rights also means that people who live there do not have to move out of the area in order to start a housing career, which promotes the social composition of the local community. We Moderates are in favour of conversion from tenancy to tenant-ownership but also want it to be possible to transform into owner-occupied apartment. The form of ownership apartment, which is very common abroad and which was introduced in Sweden by the Alliance Government in 2009, differs from the right-of-occupancy apartment in that the owner owns the apartment itself as his own property, while the purchase of a right-of-occupancy apartment buys only one share in the right-of-occupancy association with the right to use a special apartment. If you own an apartment, you are a member of a common-law association instead of a right-of-occupancy association, as in the case of right-of-occupancy housing. The responsibility and influence of the Association is less than that of a right-of-occupancy association, which gives more freedom to the owner. Today it is only possible to create new owner-occupied apartments, not to transform them. However, the Swedish Parliament announced to the government already in 2016 and then again last year, 2021, that restructuring into owner-occupied apartments should be made possible. This work has still not even been properly started by the government. We believe that this should be done immediately, but also that conversion from the right-of-occupancy to the right-of-occupancy apartment should be made possible. I therefore support the committee's proposal in paragraph 9. Madam President, I would like We Moderates also want to enable and promote rental purchases. Rent purchase is a collective concept for different models that means that a household initially rents a dwelling with the aim of eventually owning it. Hire purchases are a very widespread and common type of business deal for the purchase or rental of movable property, but they are still very rare in the area of renting and selling of dwellings. There are international examples, such as the Finnish model Omaksi – excuse my Finnish. But attempts have also been made on a small scale in Sweden. Only in 2016 and then again in 2021, the Swedish parliament announced to the government that it should investigate the possibility of promoting a rental purchase system, so that more people have the opportunity to own their housing. No investigation has yet been set up. We believe that this should happen immediately. That is why I would also like to support the committee's proposal in paragraph 10. Madam President, I would like However, there are a number of moderate proposals which the committee's majority has unfortunately not supported. Linked to the owner-occupied apartment issue, we have proposals for simplified private rental. As I said, the actual apartment is owned when buying an owner's apartment. This means increased self-determination and no one else can deny renting the dwelling. In cases where a private person rents out an individual owner's apartment, it falls under the Act on the Rental of Own Homes. This means, among other things, that the landlord has the right to terminate the lease with a three-month notice period and that the extended property protection available in the course of an economic activity does not enter into force. Hire a private person out more owner-occupied apartments than that is considered to be precisely business activity, and the extended possession protection comes in. In order to stimulate the construction of owner-occupied apartments and at the same time stimulate the supply of quickly available rental apartments for shorter contracts, we suggest Moderates that a private person should be able to rent out up to three owner-occupied apartments. Madam President, I would like Of course, we Moderates support all our proposals and reservations, but in order to save the House time, I only ask for reservation 6.
i-EHFu6rNgebY2hkJNjLTshP	Madam President, I would like During the Easter weekend, we all experienced dramatic scenes with riots, stone stones against the police, burned police cars and attacks on both individual police and the public. People's lives and health were put at risk. It was an incredibly empathetic crowd of people who attacked the police in these areas and contributed to a mood that was very hateful and whose like we have not previously seen in Sweden. It has been an incredible naivety from the government. The legal policy that has been taking place for years has put Sweden in the situation that we are seeing today. It is created by a rampant migration policy, a division of Swedish society and a tediousness from the government when it comes to getting hold of these issues. The Swedish Democrats have presented many proposals for action in this area. Sweden currently has 61 vulnerable areas, where special efforts are needed to restore security. This security will be provided by the Swedish Democrats during the next parliamentary term. We need to support all property owners who take a great responsibility to ensure that these areas are not slumbered and that the housing environment is pleasant. They also ensure security for those living in these areas by installing magnetic locks on the doors, unbreakable glass in the entrances and security doors to the apartments. Security is also created by the camera surveillance available in the public space but also in some stairwells. Property owners also provide security through security hosts and guardians and through the ongoing dialogue to make improvements and remove obstacles in the form of shrubbery, dark areas and other things that create insecurity in these areas. Having visited these areas, I understand that there is great insecurity. It is about how the areas are designed, which also makes it difficult for blue-light personnel to act. If you visit Husby Square you understand that the transparency there is not very good, and it is clear that you get worried in areas that are designed so that they create insecurity. A national plan is needed to support the municipalities in their efforts to create security in these areas – a national plan in which the state, regional and municipal efforts are synchronised with those of the property owners. A lighting plan creates better conditions for getting illuminated areas where you feel more secure and can therefore stay out to a greater extent. The more people outside, the more security. We also need state funds for these areas so that they can work with area planning. I recommend that everyone read the police reports from these vulnerable areas. One of five important points is area planning so that bluelight personnel can act, so that retreat routes cannot be switched off and that you cannot stand on viaducts and throw stones. Removing a number of obstacles in these areas would make it easier for the police to act more confidently when things happen. Even people in general would feel safer. There is a large spider web of footpaths, cycle paths and the like in these areas. It allows people to spread out and not concentrate on a few roads. It also makes it difficult to take action in the field of lighting. Therefore, you need to look at how to create the conditions for people to be able to choose the same path and thus greater security. We also need to speed up the BID co-operation that is needed in these areas. Here, property owners, police and other actors in society work together to create better conditions and common plans in order to increase security one and security one in these unsafe areas. We also need to combat overcrowding by making it legally possible to contract a maximum number of accommodations in an apartment – this so that these areas do not become overcrowded in a way that creates insecurity. Landlords and authorities must have controlling tools to prevent black-renting. The more black rental apartments, the more people who don't dare testify to what they've seen because their contracts are illegal. Many measures can be taken to restore security in these areas. Property owners have a key role to play in this context, and they need to be able to act against tenants who are misbehaving. In particular, they need to be able to act against tenants who engage in criminal activities in premises or dwellings or in the vicinity of premises and housing. By cancelling their rental contracts, we can get rid of the elements that cause major problems in vulnerable areas. We also need to strengthen the regulation of property management so that measures can be directed at rogue property owners who do not manage their properties. We need security planning in the urban planning process so that, when new housing is built in these areas, conditions are created for safe residential areas at the beginning of the construction process. You should cooperate with those who know what is needed to create safe residential areas, such as the Police Authority. We also need to introduce tax-free maintenance funds in order to create, in the long term, the conditions for all property owners to be able to maintain their properties constantly. Rent-purchase systems and owner-occupied apartments would also give tenants an opportunity to scale up the quality of their accommodation. These were many of the proposals put forward by the Swedish Democrats to restore security in vulnerable areas in Sweden. Madam President, I would like I request the approval of reservation 4.
i-N8cNJ5PY8E5FatwHg8HzQi	Madam President, I would like Although construction is periodically low and often takes place elsewhere and for groups other than where the need is greatest, access to the housing market for the first time is the main obstacle for many, especially for young people. Eight or perhaps nine out of ten are claimed to want to own their home. It could be true. But that is not to say that you would choose to do so even if it were possible. It should also be remembered that five out of ten already own their dwelling. The rest of you live in a rental. If I count correctly, about half of those living in a rental apartment would want to own instead of renting. If more people were to move from their rental right to new and owned dwellings, many rental apartments would become available. With increased ownership, rental rights will thus be strengthened by making more older and cheaper apartments available to all those who are currently queuing for a rental right. The rental right has many advantages compared to ownership. All maintenance and maintenance is carried out by the property owner. You pay your rent and are free from responsibility – free to move to bigger or smaller or perhaps even somewhere else. But then you first have to get into the rental market, and that's where the big obstacle is. Many would argue in the debate that one form or another of tenure is at a disadvantage in comparison, for example in economic terms. But it depends on which factors are taken into account. However, there is clearly a lack of rental rights for those who have queued up for one, and that problem must be removed. To some extent, it can also be solved by increasing mobility and making better use of existing apartments. As a result of rental regulation, there is under-utilisation of apartments, mainly in attractive neighbourhoods. We have some of them, not least in this city, which are empty and untapped because you don't want to get rid of them. From time to time, we have made the construction of rental apartments dependent on subsidies. They've been around, and now they don't exist anymore. That is one of the problems: one cannot count on them from one mandate to another. The second problem is that they are not accurate enough to ensure that it is built where the need cannot be met without support and for those groups that really have no other option than to live in a subsidised tenancy, i.e. the subsidies go to all housing and not to those groups and places where the need for support is greatest. The Center Party regrets that we have not made any progress in the discussion in Sweden on how to get a functioning social housing sector, just as in other countries in our neighbourhood. I welcome an investigation in this area, but that is not enough. The Center Party regrets, of course, that the Riksdag did not take the opportunity that existed last summer to reform the rental market fundamentally. What remains of paragraph 44 of the January Agreement is the hope that this government will shortly come forward with a proposal which will allow the parties to agree more quickly on rental levels with the dispute resolution requested by the parties. Liberals have quite rightly reiterated the demand that the proposal on free renting in new production be implemented as proposed by the study. One can only regret that parties who really think it would be good for reasons of prestige do not support the proposal today. There is therefore reason to put the question to the parties that intend to form a government together and to take the support of a party that is explicitly opposed to any reform of the rental market, in what way the residential political spokespersons intend to shape their housing policy up to the elections. Will it be printed in the election material that they want to see a more free rent? Is the policy based on a desire to move towards greater market adjustment, or does it envisage continued regulation in the newly produced stock as well? I take the opportunity to call for the approval of reservation 1, and I therefore give the Moderates and Christian Democrats an opportunity to vote in favour of more free renting if they wish. Back to the question of the high thresholds for the housing market. There is a majority in the committee that wants to promote rental purchases. As S, MP and V spares point out, such models already exist on the market. But there is no legislation that supports or regulates such a supply. This also sends a signal from the government to these actors that it is not a development they want. There was already a expressed desire from the Riksdag for the government to promote rental purchases, through an announcement addressed as late as last year. Therefore, the Center Party has chosen not to propose it in its own motions this year, but there seems to be reason to repeat the proposal. Therefore, we see no reason now to stand aside from such a majority – if it can be formed. We also think that there is reason to support the reservation that private individuals should be able to rent out up to three homes within the framework of the Act on the Rental of Private Housing, not like today the Rent Act – which makes such a person a trader. There is also a majority who want ownership apartments to be promoted. Many associate ownership with a house, such as a detached house, a villa, a chain house, or a terraced house. Such a house you can manage as you like, seek permission to expand, change inside and also rent out to anyone you want as long as you want. However, owned dwellings can also be stacked on each other, and they are called owner-occupied apartments. Even if you think you own a tenant-owner, it's not as easy. You do not own the dwelling, as Viktor Wärnick pointed out, but only the right to live in it for as long as you decide. With owner-occupied apartments, it's different. It was the alliance government that introduced this possibility in 2009, i.e. to offer an element that is common in other countries. Everyone owns their apartment and disposes of it freely, while stairwells, garages, garbage rooms and other common property are jointly owned. The apartment can be rented out or pledged as any property if, for example, you want to mortgage it to buy a summer house. Madam President, I would like In the longer term, it is advantageous for most people to own their home, even though renting is more advantageous in many other ways. We believe, like the majority here, that it would be a valuable addition and an opportunity for many who enjoy living in an area to be able to make their housing career there without, for example, having to move children out of a school they enjoy. It would, if anything, counteract the segregation of housing if existing rental properties could be gradually converted into owner-occupied apartments. This means that the investigation into ownership apartments carried out as a result of what the alliance government then wanted, namely to promote ownership apartments, is now being prepared within the Government Office and carried out. Parliament's announcement to the then S-led government is not new, and it has been repeated. We believe that a diversity and a mix of tenure forms is an important way to promote integration and to break the segregation where rental law is the dominant form of tenure and where the interest in building new and mixing tenure forms is low. During this debate, the Center Party usually addresses the need for conditions to build with profitability also in places where property values are low and the auditors of housing companies require a direct write-off of the newly produced rental properties. The so-called K3 rules are an obstacle to housing which far exceeds what could be compensated even by building subsidies. When the value of a newly produced residential building is halved at the moment when the first tenant puts the key in the door, it is required that the housing company has a well-filled cash box. This is not the case in many small municipalities where there is a housing need but few actors who want to invest, apart from the public housing company. This leads to closures in rural areas and difficulties in obtaining rentals, for example when a company expands and needs new leases. This is the situation in many inland municipalities, where, as it seems, there will also be no use of simplified beach protection rules to increase the value of real estate. That the Moderates, the Christian Democrats, the Swedish Democrats and the Left, who have quite different interests in the matter, announce that they will put an end to simpler and more permissive beach protection will also help to hold back housing construction in many smaller municipalities. The Center Party wants to increase housing construction, but we do not only see more rental apartments as the solution. Those who want and can own their housing should be given better opportunities to do so, so that young, older and new Swedes who for various reasons cannot or do not want to own their housing should end up at the front of the housing queue, also in cities where the housing market is hot. The housing market is not a quick fix, but it starts with small steps being taken, such as allowing free renting in newly produced dwellings. It is a reform that was unfortunately halted by an unholy alliance between the next speaker and the subsequent one. It will take time before we are given a new opportunity to fundamentally reform the rental market, but we have not given up. As someone said, bourgeois politics is best carried out by bourgeois parties – without elements of populism.
i-VsvUdcngP5Zj33sqpPcbmt	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by wishing all our Muslim friends Ramadan mubarak. I haven't had time to do it since the Ramada began. It's an important month for Muslims around the world. Today we will discuss rental apartments and more. According to a new report from the Tenants' Association, the Left Party is the party that has the highest confidence in housing policy among Sweden's 2 million tenants entitled to vote. I am, of course, pleased that the tenants so clearly show that they understand that the Left Party is fighting for them and their rights. But I'm not really completely surprised because no other party takes that fight. During the year that has passed, the Left Party has stopped, among other things, the introduction of market rents in Sweden. It doesn't matter how many times the Center Party raises the issue. Just move on. The Swedish people have spoken. This was an extremely important effort that we carried out together with Sweden's collective tenants. We in the Left Party will continue to protect the Swedish rental model with collectively negotiated rents. The future development of the negotiating system shall be managed by the negotiating parties, not by state intervention. We in the Left Party will also continue to say no to market rents and yes to strengthening tenants' rights. We will never support a proposal to introduce poor housing, so-called social housing. Creating a separate housing market for society's most vulnerable will never lead to anything but more housing segregation. To abandon general housing policy is to renounce political responsibility, and when the state surrenders, it is always the most vulnerable society that pays the price. Madam President, I would like I can assure you here and now that the Left Party will continue to fight every day for what should be the most fundamental part of a serious housing policy, namely everyone's right to housing. Madam President, I would like The Left Party has many good and important proposals in today's report. Together, the proposals can contribute to a new housing policy in which the state takes its role seriously and where the words that housing is a social right mean something for real. The injustices that currently disadvantage rental rights are a direct consequence of state policy. With our policy, injustices can be evened out. It is not a sustainable policy to continue to spend 30 – 40 billion tax dollars each year on the right-owners and homeowners, while virtually all forms of support for rental rights have disappeared. With new laws, rules, taxes and deductions, we can change the economic inequalities that exist today between the various forms of leasing. The Left Party's proposal makes life safer for tenants. The public good can once again grow greater and stronger, and we can immediately stop all sales of public housing. With our proposals, the government dares to invest heavily in both renovation and energy efficiency of the existing rental dwelling stock and in new construction of rental apartments with reasonable rents. Among other things, we want to reintroduce investment aid for the construction of rental rights, and we want a top government loan that replaces a larger part of equity. With our policy, it will finally be time for the huge state subsidies to the owned leases to give way to rental rights. Madam President, I would like We are in an acute climate emergency. The policy of transition needs to be stepped up. Around the country, municipalities are struggling with housing shortages. The need for new housing is great, while many municipalities are trying to reduce the climate impact of construction. The climate can't wait. But in order to gather the strength needed, society must be ready to take the lead and show the way through collective solutions. The Left Party has therefore proposed a historically comprehensive climate investment programme funded by a ten-year moratorium on the fiscal framework, which frees up money for key areas of climate change change in the community building sector. In the existing housing stock, the need for renovation and energy efficiency is enormous, not least in the million-dollar programme where 140 000 homes are said to be in urgent need of renovation. With our investment programme, the government can assume its responsibilities. The initiative ensures that current tenants do not have to stand alone for the entire renovation bill, while the programme not least benefits society as a whole. Madam President, I would like There are many points to be discussed in today's important report on rental law. I have already mentioned some of them, but I would like to devote the rest of my time here today to all the children who are evicted from their homes every year – in Sweden, in 2022. However, I would like to take this opportunity to call for approval of the Left Party's reservation 2. Our reservation is about these evictions, a subject which all too often falls under the shadow of other important housing policy issues. Of course, it is all connected, but now is the time to bring out the evicted children. During the pandemic, the number of people evicted from their homes continued to increase in rich Sweden. Today, according to the National Board of Health and Welfare, about 15 000 children live in homelessness. In 2021 alone 572 children were evicted, which is an increase of 27 percent compared to the previous year. Every week 11 children are evicted in Sweden. It's almost two kids a day. This is the highest figure in 10 years, despite the pandemic and despite the fact that Sweden has for many years had a zero vision of eviction of children. And now we're already in the next crisis. As a direct or indirect consequence of the war in Ukraine, food prices, fuel prices and electricity costs flash. According to SBAB, an average family of two children is at risk of increasing living expenses of nearly SEK 40,000 this year. In the autumn, the lease negotiations will start again, and as usual, landlords will require high rent increases regardless of whether the housing companies' figures have continued to point upwards or not. Madam President, I would like On 1 January 2020, the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child became Swedish law. This means that the rights of the child should always be at the centre when making assessments in cases where children are involved. This means that society has a responsibility to ensure that children grow up in safe conditions. It does not include making children homeless. And yet it happens. For families with underage children, 87 per cent of the evictions in 2020 were due to unpaid rents. According to Kronofogden, the average rent debt for eviction of children was around SEK 25 000. In some cases the debt was as small as $600. Either way, it is very small sums of money that are involved in comparison with a child being snatched from his safe place and sheep but for life. The truth is that from a social point of view, eviction is very costly. Any eviction that can be avoided must therefore be seen as a major gain. The other day, two legal experts from the large and renowned company Family Jurist wrote in a debate article in Svenska Dagbladet that Sweden lets the money go before the children. In short, Swedish courts choose to follow practices that put the landlord's economic interest above children's right to safe housing. We have spoken with the authors of the article, and it turns out that it is once again tenants who are most affected. Tenants do not have as good protection against eviction as those living in property rights, and according to the lawyers, this means that the most vulnerable in society are most affected. In Sweden, therefore, the courts think that landlords' income is more important than children's rights. Practice takes precedence over the child's legal right to safe housing. Has it gone so far that our society cannot ignore money even when it comes to children? On that day money is worth more than our children, the dignity of society has also been lost. Madam President, I would like We have to protect children when evicting, not landlords. The report we are discussing here today proposes rejection of the Left Party's reservation 2. What we actually want is that it should not be possible to evict families with children solely because of non-payment of rent. That's what the reservation says. We want the government to put the best interests of the children in focus. We want it not to be possible to evict a family before the family has a full alternative accommodation to move to. That's reasonable. But it is therefore proposed that rejection be made. Why? Like the lawyers in the said debate article, I would like to make it very clear that I do not question the landlord's right to have his rent paid. What I question is that children are evicted from their homes at all when they have the right to safe housing under Swedish law and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. To throw a child out in uncertainty is totally unacceptable, and I believe that it is up to the government to take the necessary initiatives to ensure that this is not the case. It is also the government's task to ensure that laws and case law once and for all ensure that children's right to a safe home is rewarded at all times. Never let the interests of landlords weigh more heavily! Madam President, I would like Finally – the rejection of the Left Party's reservation 2 is justified by the Government having taken a series of measures to prevent further evictions of families with children. I would say that these measures are not sufficient. Otherwise, these children would not be homeless. The continuing evictions, which are also increasing, are proof that what is being done is not enough. If the laws are the obstacle, let's change the laws together. It is here, in the Swedish Parliament, that we are going to do just that: change laws for the better. It is our duty as elected representatives. With this, I would like to conclude by once again calling for approval of the Left Party's reservation number 2.
i-5Mi5J7Ku7PbYPYTpofAWv6	Madam President, I would like In this report, the committee proposes two announcements to the government in response to the motion for a resolution on promoting owner-occupied housing and renting. We Christian Democrats support both of these. An owner's apartment is like a terraced house on the hill, where you buy your property and become a law-abiding owner. This means low fixed costs as well as personal freedom to rent out your home without permission or to sell to anyone you want. For example, JM writes on his website. I believe that this form, together with a rental purchasing system, could increase the diversity of the housing market and give the individual greater opportunity to find the type of housing that would fit. I also believe that it would increase the stability and security of existing areas where clean rental apartments are in the overwhelming majority. An area with only rental apartments prevents, I mean, the individual from making a housing career in his area. Instead, you have to move to another area, to the loss of both the individual and the residential area. Indeed, as you have heard from here before today, the committee proposed in spring 2016 an announcement that the government should investigate a housing rental system. In the spring of 2021, the committee also discussed motions to investigate and set up a rental purchase system. The committee then proposed an announcement to the government that it should investigate a rental purchase system. It also states in the report that the government has developed preparation documents through consultation meetings with the relevant authorities and stakeholder organisations. And of course there are. On 9 April 2021, a question was also addressed to Morgan Johansson about owner-occupied apartments and rental purchase systems. He then replied, in this House, that he intended to work for a proposal that would enable existing housing to be converted into owner-occupied housing and to work for the government to set up an inquiry into a rental purchasing system. I am therefore very surprised when the representatives of the government party suddenly say that this is not interesting for the government to work with. I find it very strange that the Government Party has one policy in Parliament and another in the Government Office. Our report says that the Social Democrats say that there is so little interest in these issues that they do not want to investigate. It is also said that the issue of converting rental apartments in apartment blocks into owner-occupied apartments is complex. Yes– that's why we need to investigate this. My question is this: does the government itself, in an interpellation response, wish to investigate a matter of six years to date before any proposal can be made at all? I am quite convinced that we may be standing here again at the next election and thinking about the same thing. The government's representatives – at least those at the Government Office – and the opposition are united, but nothing happens. My question then is: how high on the agenda in the Government Office are housing issues? Seven out of ten want to own their own home. Some of these may want to do so in the form of owner-occupied apartment and by rent purchase. When will housing issues be on the agenda of the Government Office? Should it take another six years before you react to an issue that you actually say you want to investigate? Perhaps it is time to have a clean housing minister again, when there are so many issues in the residential area that need to be dealt with. The housing market is dysfunctional, and we need more housing-- we all agree on that. Then we also need a government that focuses on the housing issue. I think that the two announcements that we are making once again show quite clearly that there is no focus on the housing issue. Then you would have investigated what you say you are interested in doing. If that's not a good idea, put it away! But don't try to fool the Riksdag that they still want to do this. I support the two statements in the report and hope that Parliament will ultimately do the same and that the government will do its job.
i-FXrpuWXNKzJnc3LzDxXBVF	Madam President, I would like I am going to ask a question about what I was talking about earlier, eviction of children and the reservation that the Left Party has tabled. As I mentioned, 15,000 children are homeless. There are soon two children a day who lose their homes and their security, in a country where we have the Convention on the Rights of the Child as a law. For me, it is difficult to put together the Christian evaluation that the KD claims to represent with a rejection of our reservation. The only thing we want with the reservation is that families with children should not be evicted solely because of non-payment of rent. According to the statistics and the reports we have seen, children are evicted in some cases because parents cannot pay a debt of SEK 600 — in one of the richest countries in the world. We are putting forward a proposal, a reservation, in which we say that we want to stop this until the government comes up with a better way to stop it. But then the Christian Democrats choose not to support it or to reject it. Could Larry explain to me why?
i-NWexXi4vrEFmoX81JSDruj	Madam President, I would like Momodou Malcolm Jallow and I agree on one thing: it is not the children's fault. It's the parents' fault if they don't manage to hold on to the money so they can pay their rent. But we also have a system in Sweden that means that we have a social service that will help, seek out the families who have financial problems and help and support them at an earlier stage so that they do not have to be evicted. But if we were to have a system where the person who does not pay the rent would not be evicted either because there is a law that says that we should not evict families with children, we would remove the responsibility from the parents. I want to put the responsibility on the parents, who should have it together with the municipality. It is the municipality that has the responsibility to ensure that all people there have a roof over their heads, not just families with children. But we agree on one thing, Momodou Malcolm and I: Every family or child evicted from an apartment is a problem. However, I do not believe that the solution is to stop or prohibit property owners from claiming their rent. Actually, that's what you do if you say that a person who doesn't pay his rent can't be evicted. But you can increase the pressure on the municipalities, who will do their job: seek out these families and ensure that there is a support function that allows them to change apartments if the rent is too high or move to another housing for which the municipality is responsible, before they are evicted from their rental apartment.
i-XDraYNPWYZdHTS6PLgv6zn	Madam President, I would like That the evictions of children are increasing in Sweden, one of the richest countries in the world, should hurt anyone who has a heart. Last year it was about 572 children. Larry Söder mentions social services. Well, there are certain institutions designed to help vulnerable people. But despite those institutions, 572 children were evicted and homeless last year. It simply means that it does not work. It does not help that we agree that children should not be homeless. If we are in agreement, we must find a way to put an end to this, and that is what the Left Party has proposed. The Christian Democrats chose to say no to that proposal. The fact that the Christian Democrats in this situation choose to believe the government's words that they have done enough instead of approving our reservation that it should not be possible to evict a family with children before the family has a full alternative accommodation to move to seems strange to me. How does Larry Söder justify the rejection of this proposal by the Christian Democrats? I believe that all voters and families with children who are watching want to understand how to say no to putting an end to evictions. We cannot refer to social services because, despite the existence of social services, these children are homeless. We cannot refer to the work, efforts or actions of the government, because, despite their existence, these children are still homeless. What can we do together, if we now agree, to ensure that these children live in a safe home, as the Convention on the Rights of the Child says?
i-6CXg7CK6iazUggi4dYTk8q	Madam President, I would like It's gonna be weird for me. If we realise that a system such as social services does not work and that children are still being evicted, we want to introduce a ban on evicting them. For me, it would be much easier and better to ensure that the institution and the social part that has been arranged, i.e. social services, works better and does what we as citizens want it to do. Social services are the outer border. It is the responsibility of social services to ensure that people have food for the day and shelter over their heads, regardless of whether you are single or a family with children. If an individual municipality does not succeed in this, it seems to me very strange to say: then the property owner must not evict anyone. The consequences for the property owner can be quite far-reaching if we are to be really honest. It must be the municipality's responsibility to make sure that you do the job you are legally supposed to do. We can take each other in hand to ensure that the social services do a better job and that the municipalities do a better job and that more housing is built for this to work. But we cannot take a hand in banning anything. It's like putting a patch on something that needs stitches. We need to correct the problem instead of putting a Band-Aid on it. But we agree that every family that is evicted is a problem. That is our problem as politicians. I fully agree, but I believe that the solution is to ensure that the institutions that exist – social services in each municipality – work better and have the opportunity to help. In fact, some municipalities do not build enough housing to solve that task, and we must help each other there.
i-CEYjEeiqL3F6cyPvYReQA	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 5. Of course, we support all our reservations, but for the benefit of time we do not ask for approval of the others. We're debating the rent tonight. The lease is liberal. There have been slightly different opinions about which parties are behind it, but as we have heard, we all stand behind it as an adequate alternative. Liberals' primary mission is to give people more freedom and opportunities. Without a secure home, it is difficult to control one's life. It's about choices – being able to break up, move away from home, move together or move apart, move to study or move to the new job. Housing policy, shelter, is important to us liberals. It enables all of us with life-changing choices. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, there are many obstacles in the Swedish housing market that we must overcome in order to make it more liberal and more flexible. The rental market is far too free, and there is too little housing. There is a lack of a strong policy for those who are weakest in the housing market, and the situation in our vulnerable areas is anything but safe. That's what Easter weekend riots taught us. There is a basis for liberal reforms in the Swedish housing market. The state inquiry Free rental in new production provides suggestions for new legislation that means a return to a more well-functioning rental market. Also in the study Location and quality of rental is suggested how the standard, quality and location of apartments can also have a greater impact on the market. Rules such as these can increase construction and eventually solve the problems we see in the rental market. Private individuals' leasing of their own home is an important complement to the ordinary housing market. Especially in times and places where housing is scarce, it is possible to increase the range of housing opportunities in the sector rather than quickly building new ones. Such housing opportunities are particularly important for young people living for a shorter period elsewhere. When a private person rents out an apartment, it falls under the Private Rental Act. This means that the private individual has the right to terminate the tenancy agreement with three months' notice period. It is an important security for those who rent out a basement floor, a part of their house or a multi - dwelling building and allow someone to move in near you. But if a private person rents out several apartments, two or three, it is considered to be a business activity, and it becomes more complex. Then, of course, you choose not to rent out more. In order to stimulate the offer of such accommodation, it would have been better if individuals could rent out up to three apartments under the Private Rentals Act. Madam President, I would like There are property owners who do not see that they need to assume their social responsibility and let their tenants live in substandard conditions. Such mismanagement must be stopped early, and the processes against property owners who are misbehaved must be speeded up. We therefore want first of all to see stricter environmental legislation and increased control in case of suspicion of mismanagement. The possibility of obtaining financial compensation or a right to a replacement dwelling for affected tenants also needs to be increased. The government therefore needs to come back with proposals for regulatory changes that allow a municipality to prevent property owners who do not comply with the law's requirements regarding property maintenance from acquiring more properties. We also clearly believe that criminals have no place in the particularly vulnerable areas. Under pressure from the Liberals, the government has reinforced the possibility of imposing a restraining order on a person who has been sentenced to probation or who has been released on parole from a prison sentence in areas where the person has his criminal base. If such a person poses a threat to the security of the area, the landlord should have the right to terminate the person from a rental contract. A restraining order should also give rise to the right of dismissal of a tenant who houses or receives in his apartment persons who are prohibited from staying. This should, of course, be preceded by warnings. A person who needs to be evicted in this way must be offered support by the social services in finding a new accommodation. That goes without saying. Owners' apartments, we want to make things easier. Through the owner-occupied apartment reform, the housing market has added another form of housing for residential blocks of flats. It contributes to the diversity of housing and is therefore more liberal and provides greater choice and an opportunity to finance the acquisition of an owner's apartment. So far, relatively few owner-occupied apartments have been formed. This can partly be explained by a degree of uncertainty among market players about the new property form. The same slow development took place when the right-of-occupancy was introduced. In the housing sector, however, we see that there is faith in the owner-occupied apartment as a form of housing and that more new constructions are planned. Madam President, I would like One factor that has limited the impact of the ownership apartment is that ownership apartments may only be formed in new production. This has been highlighted by the Riksdag, which, through an announcement in 2016, invited the Government to come back with proposals that make it possible to convert rental apartments in blocks of flats into owner-occupied apartments. This is important and urgently needs to be developed. We hear, of course, that we have a broad majority in favour of a broad range of housing stock, and transforming into owner-occupied dwellings would give more diversity, especially in our vulnerable areas. Madam President, I would like Many of our neighbours have a well-functioning system for those who want to rent a rental dwelling. You then have the opportunity to save up and buy the apartment while renting the dwelling. We have heard that there is no interest in the government setting up such an investigation, but we see that several actors are now taking matters into their own hands. It is amazing to see that the market now takes precedence, but when housing operators do this, we obviously need to be involved in politics in securing around those who become property owners and the consumers who rent. Investigating this is a matter of course, and I am surprised that the government is delaying the establishment of such an investigation, which aims to make it better for those who buy a rental dwelling. Why are you not interested in a rental purchase that leads to ownership? You say ownership's good. So we will follow this closely. When we have heard the liberal and bourgeois representatives in today's debate, we can see that there is no shortage of proposals for the housing market, but more needs to be done in order for everyone to have good housing. However, social-democratic housing policy has never really worked. Let's go back to 1966. Tage Erlander was asked: Mr Erlander, if you meet a young couple who are asking you for advice--I suppose that's happening in real life, too, because they want to get married. But they don't have a place to live, and they're not rich either. What advice do you give them? Erlander replied: They are allowed to stand in the housing queue, of course. Then who is now residential sex about ten years old. It is in practice still the Social Democracy's answer: Stand in the housing queue! One size fit's all never worked. Housing policy, if anything, needs a liberal bourgeois government.
i-2RLX2HTZB8fQJ2TPVBx46k	Madam President, I would like I want to ask Jakob Olofsgård the same question I asked Larry Söder. Today, according to the National Board of Health and Welfare, about 15 000 children live in homelessness. In 2021 572 children were evicted, which is an increase of 27 per cent compared to the previous year. Every week 11 children are evicted in Sweden; soon 2 children a day are evicted from their homes. That's the highest figure in ten years. We know that the pandemic has caused quite a lot of suffering. Many people have lost work and income. These are difficult times. I would therefore like to ask Jakob Olofsgård why the Liberals want to reject the Left Party's reservation that it should not be possible to evict a family with children before there is a full alternative accommodation for the family to move to. When I put the same question to Larry Söder, he referred to the role of social services in catching these people, these vulnerable families of children, and that municipalities must also be better at taking their responsibilities. I definitely think it's important. These institutions are supposed to do what they're supposed to do. But they have failed, and then it is the children who suffer. My question is: do we not have a responsibility as politicians to create the conditions for children to live safely and have a home in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child? If so, why do the Liberals choose to reject our reservation?
i-2QKgkBMFSPL429SKsbibAP	Madam President, I would like I thank the honourable Member for the question, which he seems to put to all those who are after him on the list of speakers. Freedom and responsibility are liberal slogans. As I said in my speech, there should be freedom in the housing market but also a responsibility. In left-wing politics – I have said this before – one seems to rely on someone else to go in and solve my problems. The problem will then be that if we do not make sure to help, support and support, as I said in my speech, social services need to be there when there is an eviction. If you don't learn to take responsibility, it won't work. Then it just becomes the same problem over and over again. We need to help the parents of these children to shoulder their responsibilities. If the honourable Member thinks that social services have failed, we must ensure that social services succeed and provide them with funds, assistance and resources. There is no one else, Madam President. It is very important to take responsibility in society, and if you are not able to take responsibility, you need to ask for and get help with that part, otherwise it will be repeated and not work.
i-LmwKvjrJpu1iy3DoiAFAo4	Madam President, I would like I would not like to live in such a society as Jakob Olofsgård just described. I want to live in a society where we humans help each other, where those who can help those who are weak. In this country, those who can work are working, and they pay taxes to help those who are unemployed. Those who are healthy go to work and work to help those who are sick. The day I'm working and now healthy gets sick, I can rely on there being a system where other people who work and are healthy should be able to support me. It's called solidarity. Perhaps that is something the honourable Member can google. It's the kind of society I want to live in, where people care about each other. I'm talking about children – children who are vulnerable. It's not their fault. We live in a society where poverty is increasing, a society that is vulnerable by the pandemic, where people lose their jobs and income and struggle to survive. Then the Liberals stand and say that everyone is on their own. We're not gonna help each other. What kind of society do the Liberals want to live in? It's none of my business. I came to this country and got the opportunity to go to school and use health care thanks to everyone else who worked and paid taxes so that I got that opportunity. Today, when it is I who can work and work and pay taxes to help others so that they can make the same journey as me. It is called solidarity, and I hope that Jakob Olofsgård and the Liberals can try it.
i-TLfMC1behqsYJxfuufmP4d	Madam President, I would like I do not know how to thank you for something I disagree with Momodou Jallow about at all. Learning to take responsibility is extremely important. Social liberalism is about helping each other and supporting each other. You can google on that too. The fact that it's about children is never good. But parents are also being evicted. It is wrong to constantly refer to the children, as the honourable Member is doing here. I have no suggestions on how to help, support and get the parents to solve the problem that made them unable to afford to stay. What proposals, then, do the Left Party make in this regard and to solve the various problems that have led to people not finally being able to afford to live? There are many landlords today who are very generous and help and support families living in their rental properties. But there is also a limit when it is not possible to solve this economically. So it's not like everyone's on their own. But everyone must be able to face up to their responsibilities. I also believe that the honourable Member wants to take on his responsibilities in our society.
i-DbuPJMrdigjmzrdTcA39TW	Madam President, I would like Another hour has passed, and you begin to feel that it is almost night. However, we have several important issues to debate in this House. Let us now deal with the report of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs on family law. As in the previous debate, the motions received during the general period of exercise are to be dealt with. In this report, the Social Democrats, the Center Party and the Green Party have a common reservation on the issue of the competence of professionals in matters of custody. The Center Party, the Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party have three common reservations. With the division of seats that we have in Parliament, it probably means that our reservations will be Parliament's decision, although the conditions were second in the committee's adjustment. I can say to the political scientists that a so-called false majority has arisen in these three cases. I would therefore like to begin by calling for the approval of one of them in order to have them tested by the House. Then we are excited to see how the vote ends tomorrow. And it is reservation 1 that I support, which deals with the valve in the case of polygamy. Since 1 July 2021, a general ban on the recognition of polygamy concluded under foreign law applies. The prohibition of recognition thus applies regardless of the parties' connection to Sweden when the marriage was concluded. Exemptions from the ban can only be made if there are exceptional reasons – the so-called valve. On behalf of the Green Party, we stand by the position we expressed in the legislative dossier on the new ban on the recognition of foreign polygamy, which was the subject of debate last year. We would therefore like to emphasise that we have the same basic view of polygamy as the majority behind the proposal today. Sweden should have modern legislation when it comes to the fact that we do not accept polygamy. We are an equal country, and that is why we should have a regulation that is clear about this. At the same time, a vulnerable party to a polygamous marriage needs to be guaranteed acceptable legal protection. What we and the other parties disagree on is how this protection should be designed. It is therefore a question of which technical solution should be chosen in order to achieve the same result. In that part, we note that the very limited exemption of the new regulation from the prohibition of recognition is in line with the proposal made by the investigation for exceptional reasons, that is to say, the valve. In addition, most of the referral bodies supported the proposal or, in any case, had no objection to it. We also note that the investigation considered the order advocated by the other parties, which means that certain legal effects of a marriage can be recognised for exceptional reasons. So you can recognize certain parts of a marriage, such as inheritance, rather than recognize marriage as such. So there is a technical difference in how to give legal protection to the weaker party in a polygamous marriage. However, the investigation revealed a number of objections to such a regime, including practical implementation problems and difficult to understand legislation. That is why we stand by the views we had earlier on this issue. Madam President, I would like We also have a reservation on the issue of digital confirmation. But for time winning, I don't favor it. Since 1 January 2022, unmarried parents have the opportunity to digitally confirm a parenthood without the presence of the social welfare board after the child's birth. The new possibility of digital confirmation of parenthood means that parenthood can be confirmed once the child has received a social security number. In the 2021 legislation on the confirmation of parenthood, the Government stated in its proposal that there should not be a possibility to digitally confirm parenthood before the child's birth. The government's assessment was also consistent with the assessment of the investigation, which was also supported by a clear majority of the consultative bodies. That is why we also stand by this view. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would also like to mention the last reservation that we have, which relates to the register of wills. For time winning, I don't want to approve of it either. But I think it's very important. And here we note that, on a proposal from a united committee, that is to say also the Green Party, in the Riksdag in spring 2021, we sent an announcement to the Government that it should give priority to work on the issue of a will register and take the necessary initiatives to establish such a register on a voluntary basis in general. It is a very important issue which, in fact, gave surprisingly much attention on my part, at least once we had voted through this announcement. In fact, in September 2021 the Government commissioned the Swedish Tax Agency to review the conditions for establishing a public estate register. The assignment was presented in February 2022. And the Swedish Tax Agency then said that they think there should be a voluntary will register and that it is the Swedish Tax Agency that should be responsible for this. In view of this and the fact that work is currently under way, we do not think that there should be another announcement on the same issue as there is a proposal from the relevant authority and that the relevant authority wants to take this responsibility. I would like to thank everyone who works in Parliament and who must be here because we are debating late for democracy's sake.
i-QopY8bLdPdLdAHVeZoLjqV	Madam President, I would like This is the last time in this parliamentary term that the Committee on Civil Liberties has an overall debate on family law. And I guess there's no better way to spend an evening than to do just that. Emma Hult well reviewed the reservations that we share with, among others, the Green Party. I would like to take this opportunity to ask for the approval of reservation 4 on digital confirmation. Then I take the liberty of talking about some other things. Just recently, for example, the new legislation on custody disputes began to apply. It contains a number of important changes focusing on the child rather than on the parents. I have met several family dishes to discuss this, and they have been very happy with the changes that have been made. They believe that it will facilitate the work of doing it better for children. But what everyone says is that there hardly seems to be anything to remedy the custody disputes that have a very high level of conflict between the parents, one parent against the other. When a parent puts his or her own needs at the heart of his or her conflict with the other parent ahead of what would benefit the children best, he or she becomes a major problem. It affects the children who are allowed to grow up in a living conflict. And many people can testify to how it has caused a shaky childhood. Research shows that parents who run this type of conflict around a child often also have other problems. It can be unemployment, financial problems and mental illness. Violence occurs or has occurred. It can also be abuse, and one can have one's own experience of having grown up in conflict between parents. These are things that don't exactly make life easier. Perhaps someone is now thinking, ‘ Does she think that these problems are always involved in a hard custody conflict? ' No, that's not what I'm saying. I say that research shows that it is commonplace, not that it always is. I would like to point out the following: when we work successfully with other things, such as combating mental illness, preventing abuse and violence, and ensuring that we have financial protection systems where no one gets into poverty, it means, in the long run, that parents probably get less involved with their children. I think it is worth remembering in the work of an equal society – that it is about so many more positive effects than that society's resources are distributed more fairly just for the sake of the cause. There will also be other gains. None of us believe that the new legislation on custody, housing and social relations will solve all the problems; I really do not think so. We will have to follow this issue closely to ensure that the situation for children in Sweden is better, and otherwise we will obviously have to find more ways. When I talk about children and children's needs, I want to mention something that is adjacent to it. Today there is a completely incorrect picture of Swedish social services taking children from their parents carelessly and arbitrarily. That's not true. The regulation on child care is based on the child's harm. If a child is not harmed, the child will not be cared for. Such a major procedure in a child's life is always carefully considered. We should also remember that it is not for the parents to decide whether a child is harmed but for the authorities to do so. Why? Yes, to protect the child. Social Services protect children. It doesn't steal children. Now for something else! Some of the most vulnerable in our society are people who, for various reasons at the moment, are unable to manage their own finances and manage their papers on their own. They are granted to a deputy in the form of, for example, a good man or manager. Almost a year ago, an investigation into good men and stewards was submitted to the government. It contains many good proposals that would make it even better for the principals. The proposals would in various ways provide a better guarantee than they do today that the duties as a deputy will be carried out in a way that I believe we all want to be able to offer to those who need help. These include, among other things, transparency of the deputy's activities in a different way, the obligation for transfer guardians to report to the prosecution if a deputy is suspected of a breach of his principal and rules on information and support to the deputy. The long-awaited national register of deputies was also included in the investigation. This is a question I relatively often get contacted about by people who see that there needs to be major improvements and modernisation here. I look forward to when the investigation will be dealt with – we do not really know when it will be – and hope that the House will then have a great deal of agreement on how important it is to update the legislation on deputies, for the sake of the principals. I would also like to take this opportunity to say something to those who are listening to this debate. At the moment there may not be many, but you can hope that someone clicks on it afterwards. If you believe that you could in any way contribute positively to a fellow human being just as a deputy, I think you should contact your municipality and say that you are interested. I promise the council will be very happy. The need for reliable and orderly people who can make a contribution is always there. We also know that at the moment there will be a few hundred unaccompanied minors and young people from Ukraine who will need good men. I think I will round off there, because I think it is important that you do not exceed your speaking time – not because I am even around – which is particularly true of a late night.
i-2W9EMgog69tKyw1X7FQZzE	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 5. Family law covers matters that concern us throughout our lives. No matter what family constellation we choose, everyone comes at some point into contact with the legal part that governs our lives. Unless otherwise, we are affected on the day we are born and on the day we leave this earthly life. Birth, adoption, marriage, divorce, inheritance, will, yes, the list of areas of family law is extensive. One might think that we should live our lives as we want, but in order to protect the weaker party, for predictability and to ensure that the best interests of the child are always put first, legislation is needed. We see in the 220 requests made by our colleagues in the Riksdag that these are extremely important issues. We also see that what is considered right, proper and morally correct varies according to one's own faith and one's political residence. It's natural, because when it comes to our private lives, we have very private opinions, but it's up to us in here to make decisions and make laws. Madam President, I would like The 220 requests or proposals we have to consider today are diverse. In addition to these, there are a number of whom we have dealt with in the past and which are not being debated today. Although we are always striving to adapt to a changing society, the political direction remains with us Moderates, and so I would like to stress that the moderate proposals that we have voted for earlier in the parliamentary term are the policies that we represent today as well. Today, the Committee on Civil Liberties is proposing four announcements to the government. Although Emma Hult pointed out earlier that there are so-called false majorities for some of them, this is the committee's decision. The reason why we once again choose to tell the government that it must comply with Parliament's decisions – the earlier announcements have been raised here today – is that the government has still not delivered. The Government must comply with the Riksdag's decision. Today we could read in today's Express that announcements are not binding on the government but that it can do a little as it pleases. That is something I think shows contempt for this House and this House. However, if the government is slow or slow, Madam President, the Riksdag will remind us of what Parliament's will is. Madam President, I would like A previous announcement, which is today a reservation only, concerns the transfer of custody and adoption of family homes. No one can forget, and we must never forget, the tragic fate of Esmeralda or the little heart, as we know her as. Her death became a terrible reminder that society does not always have the power to protect its weakest and most loved: our children. During the time after her death, the Riksdag addressed a number of announcements to the Government – and a number of proposals were also received from the Government – to ensure that the best interests of the child should always be put first. Many good decisions were made, and the children today have better protection than they had before. However, several questions remain, including when a custody transfer is to be considered and how we can facilitate domestic, i.e. national, adoptions. The Committee motion by the Moderate Committee in the Committee on Social Affairs highlights that we should consider a transfer of custody after two years instead of three years today. A transfer of custody gives the child confidence that it is in the family it belongs to. In the event of a decision to transfer custody, the child's connection to his/her host family shall weigh heavily. The child's age is also important; a young child connects more quickly to the family home. The child should see his host family as his home. Another issue that we believe is important for the best interests of the child in these complex and vital cases is that they should be dealt with by courts with specific competence in this area. We Moderates believe that matters relating to the transfer of custody should be examined by an administrative court rather than by a public court today. Madam President, I would like A decision on the transfer of custody is often sufficient for the child to feel confident that it is in the family it belongs to. This is where I will grow up, this is where I tie my emotional bonds and this is where I can return and be confirmed. But sometimes it's not enough. Sometimes one needs to have one's belonging confirmed, not only for the emotional aspect but also for the legal aspects of belonging to the family to be clarified. This can be achieved by adoption. Today, very few national adoptions take place. This may be because we are not used to thinking along these lines, but it is also because the legislation needs to be modernised and adapted to what we have said today in society and in this House is absolutely the most important thing, namely the best interests of the child. In previous years we have had a united committee behind these proposals. I am therefore very surprised and disappointed that the parties that have previously voted in favour of proposals to review the issues of custody transfer and to facilitate national adoptions today choose to vote against. That they do so sends a signal of a divided parliament. Why they are today opposed to what they have said in the past, they have to explain for themselves. Madam President, I would like Earlier in this House, we have addressed announcements to the government about the valve of polygamy. We all agree that polygamy should not be allowed in Sweden. This is a decision we made last year. Much was good in the government's bill. However, it was part of the bill that a majority of the Riksdag rejected, namely that there should be a valve, i.e. that in some cases there may be grounds for legal approval of polygamy. Although the Government's proposal was very restrictive, the Riksdag's view was that polygamy should never be approved and that possible disadvantages of dissolving polygamy had to be solved by other legislation. Although decisions on this announcement have already been taken, we Moderates choose to support this announcement also this year. We have not changed our mind on this issue, and that is why we will also now be voting in favour of the announcement. We see that parties that have previously supported this proposal today choose to vote against it. I find this very regrettable, and I think it will create uncertainty about how we in Parliament view this issue. Madam President, I would like Today's announcement on digital confirmation of parenthood before the child's birth has also been debated and decided earlier here in the Riksdag. Our argument this time, as before, is that it is valuable for the child to have his legal parents confirmed even before the moment of birth. Although today's legislation makes it possible to confirm parenthood digitally within two weeks of the child's birth, we believe that it should be possible to do so before the child is born. The Government's previous position that, at the time of the proposal, there should be no possibility of a digital confirmation of parenthood before the child's birth, we were opposed then, and we are against it even today. That is why we will be voting in favour of the announcement. In addition, in two areas, the committee chooses to address an announcement to the government: the competence of professionals in matters of custody and legacies. Both announcements have previously been addressed to the government. Both proposals are correct and important; we thought so then, and we think so now. What surprises me is that the parties, although it does not sound like any party has changed its mind on the issues, now choose to vote differently than they did in the previous proceedings. The argument they use is that it is not necessary – it was only a year since we last told the government. One party that argues that way in this matter is the Center Party. It is strange because, on the previous dossier we debated in this House, the Center Party chose to support a previous announcement stating that it was precisely an important issue. What does that say about how the Center Party views these issues? Madam President, I would like My responsibility is to the people of Sweden – to those affected by our proposals who expect us to fight for them until effective legislation is in place. My responsibility and my responsibility is not to allow the government to delay and delay. After too many years of experience with this government, I and the Moderates see that they need a big blowtorch to deliver. D a blowtorch, Madam President, we are – Members of Sweden's Day.
i-DdNWXXSM13RXRkTxhPQ1b7	Madam President, I would like There are four proposals for different announcements by the Committee on Civil Liberties. They are about polygamy, about the confirmation of paternity before the birth of children, about raising the competence of those who work with custody cases and about introducing a will register. These are issues that have been dealt with in the past, but the government has still not come back with legislative changes that we have been asking for. Initially, there appeared to be a clear majority for all announcements. However, the Centre Party has changed its mind, so unfortunately it looks as though several of these announcements may fall into the forthcoming vote. I can tell you, however, that we in the Swedish Democrats stand by what we have come up with, and it is not yet too late for the Center Party to change its mind. I was going to start by giving my view of polygamy. Multiple marriages should really be a non-issue in Sweden. There should not be, and it should never be accepted. Multiple marriages are common in countries where women's rights are severely limited and where marriage is determined by someone else. Women in polygamy have never accepted each other—at least they have never chosen each other—and have been forced into a constellation that they have subsequently become part of. It is shameful that there are polygamy in Sweden today, in 2022. It is even more shameful that there is no date for the end of all polygamy. A polygamy is an ongoing abuse of those involved in it. The fact that Sweden today accepts all the polygamy that has existed in Sweden since before 1 July 2021 and has also added a valve so that more polygamy can be accepted if there are exceptional reasons makes us continue to have polygamy in Sweden. Children are now born into families where women's rights are severely restricted, and society is turning a blind eye to this. Children grow up with a picture of a family made up of a man and several women and children over whom the man is in charge. The fact that Sweden does not abolish polygamy is a betrayal of all children who today are part of these polygamy, because it is not only the women who are victims that the government chooses to betray. Even the children who grow up in these families are victims who are deprived of a good upbringing every day. I already stated in the report on polygamy that there should be a final date for the end of polygamy in Sweden. I received some support from representatives of the Moderates and Christian Democrats. The Social Democrats were definitely opposed to such a thing, and the Center Party then, as it is now, chose to support the Social Democrats. When the Social Democrats – or the Green Party – claim here that they want the same thing, but in another way, I have to disagree. The government does not want to abolish all polygamy in Sweden, and they do not want all children in Sweden to grow up free from the oppression that polygamy entails. They think it is more important not to go back and do retroactive legislation, as they call it. However, they would very much like to remain in power after the autumn elections – preferably with the support of the Center Party, if necessary. That will seems to be shared by the Center Party today, at the expense of the freedom of children and women in Sweden. The government has not yet identified which measure is appropriate to comply with the previous notice. Therefore, we do not see that an investigation has been set up, and so we do not even know how long it will take before we can expect new and changed legislation. What can possibly be positive about this is that we do not know how far the government can be prepared to go either. One could imagine that there could be a final date for the abolition of all polygamy in Sweden. Madam President, I would like The announcement that paternity should be confirmed before the birth of a child is a reminder of something a majority in this House has been requested for several terms of office. The government has previously chosen to abandon the clear announcement to focus instead on what was easy to implement. I basically want a different system for determining paternity. Reasonably, the mother-to-be is asked who the father is as soon as she is diagnosed with pregnancy and that paternity is then determined as far as possible long before the baby is born. Children have the right to parents, and it is our job to ensure, as far as possible, that the child is entitled to both his or her parents, preferably even when the child is born. It is usually both possible and desirable to determine who the father will be before the child is born. In this way, the father also becomes a natural part of pregnancy and childbirth. Children have the right to both of their parents. It should be obvious from the beginning. Madam President, I would like We also have a reservation about the cousin poison. There's a reason for that. Unfortunately, we did not get a majority there. Cousin marriage is very rarely based on love. They're usually arranged. Only 6 percent of marriages in Europe, Australia, and North America are entered into between close relatives. Thus, 99.4 percent are not cousin marriages or marriages with other close relatives. The reason for the low figure, 6 per mil, is that marriages that occur out of love very rarely occur between close relatives. In these parts of the world, culture is such that love is usually the governing force in the choice of partners. In other parts of the world, the view of marriage is sometimes very different. When marriage becomes a matter for the family rather than for the individual to decide over and when the family's honor or the clan's power becomes the basis of marriage, statistics look different. In the Middle East, North Africa and Central Asia, the numbers of near-related marriages vary between 10 and up to over 50 percent of marriages, compared to the 6 percent we are used to in Europe. The question we have to ask ourselves is: what do we think as a country? A ban on cousin marriage clearly shows that we feel it is wrong for the woman not to be given the right to decide for herself over her marriage. There is a clear dividing line here. Either you're in favour of a ban or you're against it. It is a decision that should be taken from the point of view of the vulnerable. Real freedom for those women who are under pressure of honour only arises when we dare to make decisions that prevent clan structures from growing and instead give the individuals freedom. I am absolutely convinced that we will have a majority in favour of a ban on cousin marriage within a few years in this House. Madam President, I would like I request the approval of reservation 2.
i-NDS1Bf2mPAFydkmgwxpBjA	Madam President, I would like Family law is an incredibly exciting area that gets far too little space in the political debate. For me, the work on these issues is important because children have the right to speak and have the right to be involved and to know their origins. Children are individuals of their own. They are not someone's property, for example in a custody dispute where children can be used as bats against the person you have previously lived with. Children should have access to their parents, and everything should be done in the best interests of the child. On behalf of the Center Party we have a motion from last autumn which contains quite a number of proposals. They are not up to decision today, because we have dealt with them before. But, of course, we support all those proposals. What is important to me when it comes to bringing about change and making a difference for these children for their good is in much about ensuring that there is knowledge and that there are evidence-based uniform methods used when investigating children's different situations, whether it is about custody disputes or child care. But it's also about how courts act and work when they need to make decisions in custody cases because custody disputes end up there. The courts have a great responsibility to ensure that there are good investigations in which children are heard. We can take the example of children's interviews. In terms of how to talk to children, there is currently no uniform method used throughout the country, linked to research and where it can be followed up. It is a problem that we do not get this in a uniform way. We can also look at risk assessments. What is a risk to a child? What combinations make the risk greater or smaller? There is a need for clarity and consistency here. Last year we decided on various changes to the legislation, including the fact that information calls must take place before one can sue one another in a court in a custody dispute. However, I do not think that is enough. I would prefer it to be a compulsory mediation, so that parents can talk to someone, such as a lawyer or a child psychologist who is trained to bail out these knots. Perhaps this person can also help to see what Elin Lundgren talked about earlier in the speaker's chair – a lot can be about mental illness as well. It's about getting help to see these things. Children have the right of access to their parents, regardless of whether the children were born in Sweden or in another country. We can talk about the fact that the digital confirmation must take place before the child's birth and that there will automatically be joint custody of both parents, which it is not today. I find it very strange that we are few in this House talking about both parents, whether it is a mother and a father, two mothers or two fathers, having joint custody from the very beginning. I think it sends a signal when we talk about equality. In the vast majority of cases, a father does not get custody of his child. It is good that we have taken steps that automatically confirm parenthood in terms of partnership and same-sex marriage. But this is lacking in other cases. And still a majority of children are born outside of marriage today. International relations are something we deal with alongside. This does not happen in today's report, but will be dealt with in the spring. It is very good that this is being released. But there are no questions about host motherhood in that bill. I will have to come back later in that discussion, because these children too must have security, legal certainty and access to their parents. Then there are parents who do not continue to live together. But children must have access to all their parents. In some cases there may be bonus parents involved in previous relationships and new relationships. We know what it can look like. Then children are not sure that they will have continued access to their bonus parents. It is something that I also find incredibly important. Now another area of family law, which is actually very broad. Now I'm leaving the children to talk about the division of homes and adults who are going to settle about how to divide their homes after they've been married. Here we must take steps further, but the government does not see the problem. A division of property may last for 10 years or longer because one party is falling short and does not participate positively in the division of property. Here we must protect the people who get caught up in this and can never start a new life. While doing so, we can review the maintenance obligation that exists between spouses today. It also exists in the case of division, and it is important to look at this issue because it affects some people to be dependent on the person they are about to separate from. Let me sum up my speech by saying that it is important for children to be involved and to be heard, that they know their origin and that they are not anyone's property, but their own individuals with a right to their parents. We will always take the child's best interests into account. I support all the proposals of the Center Party, but I call for the approval of reservation 10.
i-RmX8sRer9x5cBxkbYi6Pju	Madam President, I would like I cannot help it because the Center Party does not want to vote in favour of the announcements proposed by the committee. There are four of them that the Center Party wants to convict in practice. It is about polygamy, confirmation of paternity, increased knowledge of those who work with children and will records. At the same time, the Center Party retains its support for several other announcements, such as on hydropower, which we are going to debate. This is done despite the fact that, barely a month ago, we addressed two announcements to the government about hydroelectric power and that the government has had very little time to act. But the Centre Party is calling again for the government to act in the field of hydropower – but not in the case of polygamy, where it has been a year since we issued an announcement, or a legate register, where it was two years ago. Martina Johansson speaks warmly for the father's role from birth but will press the red button when we vote on that announcement. I cannot help asking the question: Why are owners of hydropower more important than children and women who live in polygamy?
i-2vqSZkC2tYcQtUc7nNr5qj	Madam President, I would like I thank Mikael Eskilandersson for the question. For me, it's about making a difference, and we have an incredible number of different processes and tools to change. Announcements are one. We choose not to follow up this time and have no claims of our own because there was an announcement from last year. For this reason, I believe that we should not have further announcements. But, in substance, I still stand for exactly the same policy. I raise the issues and debate them in this House in different ways. I meet social services and researchers to connect this and get a difference in everyday life. At present, I do not see any need for further announcements on these issues, and that is why I have reserved for the majority of the committee.
i-PrS87ptTAewgVSJasQ5ATy	Madam President, I would like Clearly, owners of hydropower are considered more important than, for example, children's rights to their father. Announcements are the tool that the committee has to influence. When you have addressed a number of announcements to the government and tired of the government never coming back, you can take it one step further and make a proposal to change the law directly in committee. But neither has the Centre Party made such a proposal. Instead, there is an ambivalent approach to announcements where certain announcements are important to pursue, while others are obviously not at all as important. One might wonder if the Center Party sees any meaning in sitting in parliament. Announcements are our strongest weapon. Or is it the most important thing to become part of a future government?
i-JDhg8nmqy4f9ZPYzsEHEuu	Madam President, I would like Of course, it matters to sit in the Riksdag and do a job. It's incredibly important. All parties have a major role to play in this House. It is essential in a democracy that we stand here. Exactly what tools we use at which times are determined by what is appropriate in the individual situation. I have made the assessment at this point not to support the announcements because I do not see the value of it today. But the Center Party has exactly the same opinion as it had a year ago.
i-9hLZBbip4fDPUQ8CEHsZFf	Madam President, I would like The family is the natural and fundamental unity of society and has the right to the protection of society and the state. Well-functioning families based on mutual love and trust are crucial for children and the future of society. When the family fails, it is the municipality's task to provide social and economic support for the family to carry out their tasks and duties. The municipality's willingness to support should be great because the suffering and economic impact on the individual will be great if you do not. By law, the public shall respect the family's sphere and rights. The family should not be deprived of its natural tasks, but instead be given the conditions and, if necessary, social and financial support to be able to carry them out independently and safely. The most obvious obligation is to take care of children and be responsible for their development into adulthood. Therefore, the most obvious municipalities can do is support and educate adults in our parenting. This report raises a number of issues and some have led to proposals for announcements which I think are important. The government should return as soon as possible with a legislative proposal in accordance with the 2021 announcement on the multi-toxic valve, which has already been discussed a great deal here. The Government should urgently return with a legislative proposal in accordance with the 2021 Notice on digital confirmation of parenthood prior to the birth of the child, as has also been discussed earlier. The government should take the necessary initiatives to ensure that, among others, the judges dealing with custody issues and more have sufficient knowledge and competence to ensure that the perspective of children's rights has a full impact in practice. The government should urgently take the necessary initiatives to establish a will register. We Christian Democrats support these four announcements. I am grateful for the announcement of the will register, but also for the fact that the Government has moved on and commissioned the Swedish Tax Agency to investigate how a will register in public can be introduced and managed. Just as we heard earlier in the speaker's chair, the proposal itself has come. I am grateful that it has been well received, and I hope that it will be taken forward. The last will of a person should be respected and fulfilled as effectively as possible if there is a will. The fact that we, like other countries, introduce a register of wills, where the individual can voluntarily register his will, is for me of course and very good. It ensures as far as possible that the last will is carried out. Regardless of which government is sitting after the elections, I have great hopes that a public will register will be introduced. As far as the other announcements are concerned, there seems to be little going on. In the valve of polygamy, we may have to note that the parliamentary majority and the government side have different views, and we can direct any number of announcements on this matter without the government going to do anything on the matter. This means that the only way to do this is to have a new government after the September elections. At the end of the parliamentary term, however, I would like to reflect on the issues relating to family law. They are usually complicated, and there are many sides to the coin. In fact, I do not think that we political representatives are best placed to deal with these issues by discussing them in the committee room or in the chair. I think we need to take the time to discuss them in other forums in order to find solutions that are best for society and the family. We must have the attitude of solving more problems than we are creating in the next parliamentary term. I hope that whoever is in a government position can invite such a discussion. It's important. Family law is extremely important, just as the Centre Party representative said in the pulpit. There is far too little attention to the area, and I think that we can do much more together. I request the approval of reservation 2.
i-8xHVsnc84F9uwfiEojjuH	Madam President, I would like My uncle shouldn't be my father-in-law too. It's a pretty simple rule. But cousin marriage exists, and they maintain the power and control of the family collective over the individual. I have been met by many powerless girls and boys who have told me how cousin marriages are used by families to guarantee the girl's purity, the continuity and unity of the family and that the inheritance remains within the family. For many girls and boys, the decision about a cousin marriage is a buoy with which they have been provided at birth. As a result, children and young people are forced to lead a double life in order to gain access to the life they want. Cousin marriage is a central part of honorary culture – point! Cousin marriage is often a matter of forced marriage within one family in order to limit, above all, girls' freedom. Strong social control combined with threats of violence makes it virtually impossible for the couple to refuse marriage. Moreover, divorce from a cousin marriage presents great difficulties. In Sweden, cousin marriages are not illegal, and there are no routines for helping those who have been forced into them. When vulnerable people seek help from authorities, it is a lottery which measures are taken. In some cases, the efforts are non-existent. The family can continue to practice oppression and violence. In Norway a ban has been introduced, and in several other countries large and important awareness campaigns are being conducted on the medical risks of two cousins having children with each other. But it does not happen in Sweden. Here we really know nothing from a government standpoint about the extent of the phenomenon, despite the great immigration to Sweden from countries with high levels of cousin marriage. For too long, the role of cousin marriages in the repression of honour has been ignored by Swedish politicians and very much by the government. The Liberals have on several occasions asked the responsible ministers how they intend to confront the oppressive consequences of cousin marriages, but we have been left unanswered. Madam President, I would like Children and young people deprived of their freedom can no longer wait. Liberals demand that the government act and set up an investigation into a ban on cousin marriage. In addition, the scope of the problem must be identified and the relevant authorities given the task of informing about the risks of cousin marriage. There have been plenty of alarm clocks over the last 20 years. Yet honor-related violence and oppression have not been met with sufficient force. Despite the ambition to be a feminist leader, far too many children and young people have been subjected to honour-related violence and oppression. Many politicians have spoken but chose not to act. In Fadime Sahindal's noted speeches in the Riksdag, she expressed the family's demand that she marry her cousin in Turkey, just as her sisters had. It is a number that has often been quoted – rightly so. Fadimes's speech is extremely analytical. However, the part that concerns the expectations of marrying a cousin has not received any focus. It is time to stop cousin marriages and all traditions that help young people to be forced to marry against their will. Sweden will stand up for our fundamental rights and freedoms. Don't tell me our legislation is enough. It won't hold. I know. I have met the victims, and I have promised to be their spokesperson in this House. Earlier today, in the Committee on Justice, we debated the work against honour-related violence and repression. In addition to the left-wing snow moss, there was clarity about how vulnerable the victims are and how important it is that we take action. I am therefore extremely surprised that this proposal to investigate the prohibition of cousin marriage has not received a clear majority in this House. Once again, I realise that the deep knowledge needed to address the serious problem of exposure to honour-related violence and oppression is lacking. But I won't give up. I will continue to fight for the right of all children to a life free from all forms of oppression and violence. I am in favour of all the Liberals' motions, but I am in favour of reservation 2.
i-GZLjRVDL1d5nMqtUxFc1XA	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 4 and, in addition, for the committee's proposal in the CU report13. For the most part, the report deals with issues that have already been dealt with during the parliamentary term, which is why I will concentrate my speech on our reservation. Madam President, I would like We agree with the committee's majority that hydropower plays an important role in Swedish energy supply. Through the rules on the greening of hydro power that came into force in 2019, hydro power will continue to play a key role in the Swedish electricity system, while at the same time greening takes place. In the spring of 2020, the Swedish parliament announced to the government that further work on reforming water legislation and water management needs to focus on protecting small-scale hydropower through reduced regulatory constraints, respect for property rights and effective and affordable environmental measures. As recently as a few months ago, the Parliament addressed two further announcements to the Government on hydroelectric power. The political will for hydroelectric power has thus been repeatedly expressed in announcements from the Riksdag to the Government. The Environmental Fund for Hydropower, which aims to combine hydroelectric power production with modern environmental requirements, is also mentioned. The owner of a hydroelectric power plant to be tested under the national plan can apply for funds from the fund to investigate, adapt and modernise its or its power plants in accordance with current environmental legislation. That is why, Madam President, there is no reason for Parliament to address yet another announcement to the government about small-scale hydropower.
i-Uo2Zv3McpJ7T48C6c99ybG	Madam President, I would like One might wonder why the government does not act despite all the announcements. When I meet power plant owners and pond owners and listen to them, I often hear a story about the battle between David and the giant Goljat, but it is a story where the giant in the form of county boards and other authorities basically always wins. The processes and future deliveries are also associated with high costs for power plant owners. To that should be added years of stubborn struggle, bureaucracy and appeals that these people are forced to endure. Small-scale hydropower is a clean and renewable energy type that does not cause greenhouse gas emissions. It exists in thousands of places and is virtually impossible to take out in the event of an attack from another country. It is adjustable and can give more power when the sun does not shine and it does not blow. That is exactly all we are asking for. However, it is still identified by the government as a threat to the environment and biodiversity. The government's goal is that all water should be freely flowing. It is forgotten that the entire ecosystem around these ponds has been adapting to the regulated pond for a very long time, sometimes centuries. Dry periods can also have a reverse effect on beachside life. It is wrong to set natural values against cultural values if the cultural value of the conservation of the pond is always forced to stand back for free running watercourses. It is not at all certain that these are always better for the environment. With the right will, it must be possible to reconcile the environment, cultural history and electricity supply. If we have a climate with more frequent droughts and floods, a regulated water stream can provide some environmental benefit, otherwise what happens to the large flora and fauna that have established around the mill ponds for hundreds of years? Should it no longer be a part of our nature? Many people also live near or near lakes, ponds and watercourses where the water level is maintained due to the dams of the power plants. If the dams disappear, it affects both their living environment and their leisure activities. Bathing and boating are threatened even though the environmental benefits are often questionable. Of course, greening may be necessary to some extent. But it must certainly not be the case that electricity producers choose to shut down because they feel unfairly treated and opposed, because what can really be better in terms of safety than having several thousand regulated power sources around our country? It is time for the government to act to preserve hydropower. There shouldn't be a need for a lot of announcements. The government knows what the Riksdag thinks. It's time to show some action. I request the approval of reservation 7.
i-URMwwdzbqvy1C17QXAbCB2	Madam President, I would like If energy issues related to our self-sufficiency and our independence have been up to date in the past – and they have – then that is not the case now, when everyone is discussing how we in Europe should make ourselves independent of Russian gas and fossil and non-renewable energy sources. In addition, we shall have domestic food production and farmland management. The importance of water supply in our society cannot be overemphasised. It is about our most important food, drinking water. We need to be able to deal with stormwater and lead it away as the rains increase and the risk of flooding increases, and we need to continue to embed agglomerations as the oceans rise to melt the ice. I and the Center Party believe that water issues will become even more important in the future and can agree that new forms of cooperation are needed because water, like weather and wind, has a tendency not to relate to either municipal or national borders. The report well describes how regions and the state through the County Administrative Board will work together within the framework of the regional plans that the Center Party wants and which will now be expanded with my own county of Halland. Madam President, I would like Halland's rivers have all been taught in school, but they are not only Halland's. The sources lie further inland, and they are what are commonly called river basins — or districts, as they are called in the water management investigation. In Halland's rivers and many of their side-flows there is also part of the renewable electricity generation that I started by talking about. Small-scale hydropower has been a follow-on in the Civil Committee. It is not the first time that the government has received announcements that the testing of individual production facilities should also be done on the basis of what social benefits they are doing for our electricity supply and what they have meant to society further back in time. The measures required by the authorities today by hydropower owners lead to the decomposition of fully functioning dams and turbines. The Center Party wants the assessments to be based on the conditions on the ground. Which fish is expected to hike, and where are the hiking routes to be built in cases where they are really needed? The assessment must also be based on proportionality in terms of benefits and profitability and that it does not adversely affect the overall production of electricity. Someone may object that compared to the fully expanded hydroelectric power in the large Norrland rivers, a small part is produced small-scalely. But it's the control force you want. As mentioned above, electricity should preferably be produced close to where it will be used. The planning objective of the small hydroelectric power plant is that the measures must not lead to a loss of production of more than one and a half terawatt hours. So we should not increase production in small-scale hydropower, but limit the reduction. Any derogation must therefore be available to hydropower owners. That is not the case today. That is why we believe that the test is not made on the basis of the law that we passed here and that it must therefore be paused. In March, the Riksdag decided that the timetable must be revised so that the trials started are completed according to the programme of measures that has not yet been completed. There is a risk that the trials that start later will have different environmental conditions than those where you have been out early with your applications. The Riksdag has therefore on several occasions called on the Government to either stop the trials or ensure that they are done according to the will expressed by the Riksdag – that the rules should be simpler and the measures proportionate. I would therefore like to support the proposal and the rejection of reservation 4 and therefore also to support reservation 5 on the greening of hydroelectric power.
i-AVcV4ZNa8Yh31iniusQ9ea	Madam President, I would like Sometimes it is said that without the car Sweden stops, and I believe that is to some extent true. It could also be said that small hydro power is just as important for our energy supply as the car is for our transport. Without small-scale hydropower, we get even bigger deficits, especially when there is no wind or the sun does not shine. One result of the large deficit is the much higher prices of energy based on the now reduced supply. The fact that this issue has not been given more political explosive power than it has been given is a mystery to me. A price which in some cases has been raised by several hundred per cent should in fact be the only one to be discussed. Of course, we Christian Democrats advocate that nuclear power should be allowed to develop further in Sweden, but we also need other types of energy production, such as small-scale hydropower. Using energy in our smaller streams is something we have done for many centuries. Early on, we settled at waterfalls where the mechanical force could make life easier for us, for example by driving saws and hammers. Hydropower has been and is a cornerstone of the development of our society, today thanks to the electricity generation that we so badly need. Without electricity generation from small hydro power, we would have had even greater problems with the energy supply. The Swedish Parliament has on several occasions made decisions with the meaning that small-scale hydropower should be protected. In spite of this, we have experienced over time that authorities continue to make demands on the destruction of small-scale hydropower in connection with the trials that take place on a basis other than what the Riksdag wants to see. My questions will then be: How will we get our authorities to follow the will of the Swedish Parliament? How are we going to get the Swedish Government to operate in the direction that the Swedish Parliament has expressed innumerable times? Why does the government not see to it that our authorities have the current basis for making decisions? Instead, the time for processing in the Government Office will be so long that you will have to use the material that the Riksdag has already decided to replace. I find it sad that we have authorities and a government that considers itself to be above the democratically demonstrated will of the Swedish Parliament. Since the government and the authorities are not responding to Parliament's wishes, we must simply continue to talk about Parliament's will, as we are doing here today. In March 2022, the Swedish Parliament, on the initiative of the committee, issued a notice to the government that the timetable of the national hydropower review plan should be adjusted if the government's examination of the water authorities' action programme is not completed when the next review team is due to submit its applications. We Christian Democrats believe that this was a step in the right direction, but in our opinion there are other outstanding issues that need to be reviewed before the reconsiderations can continue. Not least, something needs to be done because of the legal uncertainty that exists, which stems from different authorities in different parts of the country making differing assessments. In this context, we would like to emphasise that the removal of dams does not necessarily improve biodiversity or the local environment. In many cases a dam may in fact have created conditions for both fish, mussels and birds. We must realise that we need small-scale hydropower and that, as a society, we should seize its potential and cultural heritage. With these words, I am in favour of reservation number 7.
i-Hd5xprhi9ixHVV8HL3YC3b	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for staying this late hour! Water is a prerequisite for all life that we feel it – a vital resource that we all too often take for granted. The fact that water is crucial to our food production, electricity supply, biodiversity and recreation makes an enormous number of interests struggling for their very space. With the ever more severe effects of climate change, we see that water is becoming scarce, while floods threaten our cities. Dry periods threaten groundwater levels, and already in April Gotland, among other things, imposes restrictions on how and to what water resources may be used. Unfortunately, this is a reality that we must face and adapt to. Sweden was planned and built when the conditions were completely different. It is now up to us in Parliament to ensure that water resources are protected and used where they are most useful. Today we have to deal with 140 requests for exercise from the general exercise period. The large number of requests shows that many of our colleagues are aware of how we can make the best use of our water resources and make proposals on this. But it is not just climate change and great domestic competition for our water resources that need to be addressed. Russia's unjustified war against Ukraine also affects us in terms of how we must prioritise our limited water resources. I will come back to that. Madam President, I would like All my colleagues have mentioned this: Hydropower in Sweden is the power generation that historically and nowadays constitutes the backbone of our supply of fossil-free and adjustable electricity. We have historically been good at harnessing the local natural resources that hydropower offers. Society and companies have developed around watercourses throughout Sweden. Hydroelectric power stations have been cared for and appreciated not only for decades but for centuries by those who live close to them and have seen how they can offer jobs and secure electricity supply. Of course, small-scale hydropower must have modern environmental conditions, but the environmental permit process must be balanced and must not make the continued operation and efficiency of small-scale hydropower impossible. This should be self-evident, and the Riksdag has been over-clear about how we want the government and the authorities to act. Unfortunately, it has not always proved to be as obvious for those who are going to administer the environmental processes. Nor has the government shown any willingness to address the challenges that threaten the existence of small-scale hydropower. Due to this reluctance, the Riksdag has addressed a number of announcements to the Government. Let me give you a little historical flashback. The first announcement came in 2016 from the Civil Committee, which asked the government to return to the Riksdag with a regulatory framework for permit processes that are flexible and adapted to small-scale operations. The Energy Agreement 2016 resulted in a bill 2018. It concluded, inter alia, that the authorisation testing carried out by the authorities should have a national holistic approach, balancing the need for measures to improve water quality with the need for national efficient access to electricity from hydropower. It was a bill that gave some hope for a more balanced management of small-scale hydropower, but unfortunately it turned out that the bill, which the Riksdag supported, did not get the desired impact. So in 2020, another announcement, this time by the Committee on Economic Affairs, focused on reducing regulatory burdens, respect for property rights and efficient and affordable environmental measures, was issued. The desired result failed again, and therefore a new announcement came in September 2021, this time from the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture. The whole Parliament has therefore been involved in this. The government's mills grind slowly. The last two announcements are still pending, so, Madam President, there is still hope that the government will finally listen to the Riksdag. While the announcements are being handled, the responsible authorities continue their efforts to implement the national plans for the greening of small-scale hydropower. This creates great uncertainty and concern among the owners of this decentralised electricity production. That is why, as recently as March this year, the Committee on Civil Liberties considered that a further announcement was necessary – this time in order to get the water authorities to adjust the national plan for the re-evaluation of hydro power as long as the action programme for the management cycle 2021 – 2027 was not established. It remains to be seen, Madam President, whether this time the government is following the decision taken by this Parliament. After today's statement in Expressen about how the government views announcements, the hope is not very great. Madam President, I would like One might think that announcements on the subject of small hydropower are now enough. But we must act when the world around us changes. And that is why, Madam President, there is also today a announcement to the government with a clear statement that small-scale hydropower is a resource that we must protect and develop. In substance, this announcement has the same meaning as the previous one, namely that the government should take the necessary measures and take the necessary initiatives to ensure that regulation at EU level does not unjustifiably hamper or render the operation of small-scale hydroelectric plants impossible. What has now been added, in addition to the arguments put forward earlier, is the important role of small hydroelectric power as decentralised electricity production at a time when external forces are threatening our neighbourhood. With Russia's invasion of Ukraine and Russia's constant threat to those who support Ukraine's struggle for its freedom, the importance of robust, decentralised electricity production has become increasingly evident. Small-scale hydropower is important from a total defence perspective. This must be included in the assessment when the environmental impact of small hydropower is weighed against the societal benefit. The Moderate Defence Committee's motion highlights that small hydropower, with its role in total defence, should not only be protected but also be developed and strengthened. As a result of the Energy Agreement, it was established that the greening measures would not entail more than 1.5 terawatt-hour reduction in electricity generation. With awareness of what is happening in our near world, the question is whether this figure should not be changed to become a planned increase of at least 1.5 terawatt hours. Small-scale hydropower is a socially important activity and must be managed accordingly.
