i-WVvdxTJooFD41dGRCaXHpw	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the reservation to be approved. The importance of hydropower for the Swedish energy system is fundamental. It contributes functions to the energy system such as planning and controlability and makes up almost half of our energy production. Hydropower is and will be the backbone of the Swedish energy system. Through the regulations on the greening of hydropower that entered into force on 1 January 2019, hydropower can continue to play a key role in the Swedish electricity system while at the same time adapting it to modern environmental conditions. In an announcement from the Riksdag to the Government in spring 2020, it was stated that further work on reforming water legislation and water management needs to be focused on protecting small-scale hydropower through reduced regulatory constraints, respect for property rights and effective and affordable environmental measures. The National Plan for Modern Environmental Conditions was decided by the Government in June 2020. The re-examinations have now begun and will be carried out over a 20-year period. In connection with the Government's decision on the national plan, the importance of a national holistic approach and that the trials should be based on an informed basis was emphasised. This facilitates the trials and also ensures that they are carried out in a way that does not become unnecessary intervention. The national plan was decided by the government almost two years ago, taking into account several different aspects. Firstly, all the actors involved, i.e. the individual hydropower owners, the courts and other authorities, should be given the opportunity to prepare the trials in good time through the production of documentation, coordination and more. Furthermore, the timetable should contribute to the relatively even workload of the courts over time. The geographical division of the test groups itself is designed with the primary aim of allowing interlinked water activities in the same main catchment area to be examined in a coordinated manner. We Social Democrats see no reason whatsoever for Parliament to act now to get a change in the timetable. First of all, changing the timetable would be unfortunate for all those players who have already set up after it. It cannot, of course, be ruled out that circumstances arise at a later stage which require adjustments to the current timetable. The Government stated in its decision on the national plan that follow-up is central to ensuring that the outcome of the plan and the individual trials do not go against the aim of having a coordinated trial with the greatest possible benefit for the aquatic environment and for national efficient access to hydroelectric power. It must therefore be assumed that the outcome of the national plan will be closely monitored and that any need for adjustments will be examined and addressed in an informed manner. It should be stressed that the authorities involved have an opportunity to propose changes to the timetable. In this context, it must also be pointed out that the action programmes are of little or no relevance to the national plan reviews. These tests are carried out on the basis of environmental quality standards. In the coming years, water authorities will carry out a gradual review of all bodies of water affected by hydropower to be tested under the national plan, including status classifications and environmental quality standards. Such a review has recently been carried out of water bodies affected by hydropower to be tested in the coming years, and new provisions on environmental quality standards have also come into force. Madam President, I would like Therefore, the fact that the government's examination of the action programmes for the next management period is not yet complete cannot well justify postponing the forthcoming trials just when the first trials have just begun. As early as the government decided on the national plan, it was emphasised that EU law's ability to impose less stringent requirements in favour of socially beneficial activities should be fully exploited in, for example, the communication of environmental quality standards and the classification of water bodies. Of Chapter 4 Section 10 of the Water Management Regulation also follows an obligation for water authorities to decide on less stringent requirements when the conditions for this are met. Madam President, I would like I assume that the water authorities comply with the current regulatory framework, including the indicative value of one-and-a-half terawatt hours for what can be considered at national level to be a significant negative impact on power generation under Chapter 4. Section 3 of the Water Management Regulation. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to point out the following. Prior to the adoption of the national plan, some consultation bodies had expressed concerns that the forthcoming trials would result in withdrawals of authorisations and requirements for the withdrawal of activities. However, as the government stated when the plan was adopted, there is little reason to believe that this would be the case. It can be assumed that only in exceptional cases would it not be possible to adopt provisions and conditions which would provide sufficient greening to meet the requirements of EU law. The Water Framework Directive does not require the closure of hydroelectric power plants, but only the examination of their impact and the adoption of adaptation measures where the negative impact is significant. In this context, the Water Energy Environmental Fund, which aims to reconcile the production of hydroelectric power with modern environmental requirements, should be particularly highlighted. The owner of hydroelectric power plants can apply for funds from the fund to investigate, adapt and modernise their or their power plants in accordance with current environmental legislation. For these reasons, we Social Democrats believe that there is no reason for Parliament to make any announcement on the national plan.
i-QZxP83Ay8A9tDttFgBGXsm	Madam President, I would like Initially, I want to tell our younger audience up in the gallery that we are debating our Swedish hydroelectric plants, how to take care of them and the environment and how fish can swim upstream in rivers and rivers. Now we stand here again with another committee initiative from the Center Party. It is again about the Swedish hydropower. It seems urgent for the Center Party to bring forward, but to be honest, I do not really know what is behind this. Only last autumn, in another committee, we had a similar committee initiative. The aim is to ease the environmental testing of hydropower. A green and liberal party realises, of course, that we need to ensure that Sweden's hydropower plants comply with modern environmental conditions. It's ours now. The sun shines and melts the snow. The spring flows that will flow through rivers and rivers are missing in many places, as there are about 2,100 hydroelectric plants in our country that prevent the naturally created spring flow. Most of our power plants are currently operated with 100-year-old permits. Several of these old hydroelectric plants are also completely unauthorised. Those of us who have taken a couple of paddles in our rivers and rivers can sign that the power plants are many. You often get to lift and carry canoes and kayaks. There are 2,100 power plants. Madam President, I would like There is probably no one in this room who does not believe that hydropower has had and will have a decisive impact on our country's energy needs. However, now that we want to move forward and pause the re-evaluation of hydropower, it goes completely against the environmental legislation that has established that all power plants will have modern environmental conditions and that the re-evaluations will take place according to a national plan. A review based on environmental quality standards has recently been carried out of water bodies affected by hydropower. These will be tested in the coming years. New regulations on environmental quality standards have also come into force. This cannot justify postponing the important work on modern environmental conditions. Madam President, I would like I would like to remind you once again how important this is to our nature and the environment. I shouldn't have to do that in a way because it really feels so obvious, but I do it anyway. Although hydropower is one of our most important renewable energy sources, it has led to the disappearance of many of the streaming environments. Clean water is biologically comparable to coral reefs. Even the beach environment along smaller watercourses is incredibly rich in species. Dams that build up make this go away. Today we have a shortage of these environments in Sweden, and this has happened because of the many dams and hydropower. They create barrier effects and hinder the migration of fish and other aquatic organisms, but also the transport of sediments, nutrients and other important downstream substances. Only at 10 per cent of the Swedish power plants are fish passages. This hinders the spawning of fish, which affects access to fish along our entire coast. This is particularly true of the role of important predators in the food chain. In addition, where these fish passages are located, many of them operate substandardly. Natural water flows have changed. The impact on our important biodiversity will be great. Most extreme it is of course where you in different riverbeds hardly lose any water at all. So-called zero tapering has a major impact. The focus has been on the lowest levels of water in the form of minimum taps, which of course are in no way natural. Hydropower plants have a negative impact on the environment and ecosystems. There must be clarity in how we deal with this. There are possibilities here. It is possible to make greenings, such as fish passages. Tilting bars or bubble barriers can be installed so that fish are not damaged or killed. The Liberals made a decision at their country meeting last autumn about free hiking routes from coast to mountains. We will continue to work for that. There is a timetable that started in February this year. It's gonna last 20 years. It should be obvious that we should introduce modern environmental requirements for the more than 2 000 hydroelectric plants as soon as possible and not wait for that. Madam President, I would like I am puzzled by the fact that the proposal to postpone environmental testing is being put forward. It is, of course, a liberal and green party that holds natural values high. In the debate we had last week in another committee on fisheries policy, the Center Party spoke very warmly about the coastal fishing environments that depend on the migratory routes of fish, and these are incredibly affected by the power plants. It will therefore be interesting, Madam President, to listen specifically to the speech by the Member of the Center Party. It can't be that you put nutrition before biodiversity, can it? I don't want to believe that. Nor do I want to believe that the Centre Party thinks that all these over 2 100 hydroelectric plants do not need greening as soon as possible. On the contrary, it would benefit the green industries with more fish and better water in the watercourses. More recreational fishermen benefit local businesses in rural areas with fishing tourism, accommodation and grocery stores. Ecotourism could flourish even more with well-functioning watercourses. In other words, we can say that everything has its time. Many of these power plants have had their time without greening. Now is the time to redo and do the right thing. Rivers, rivers, rivers and streams work together as the bloodstream of nature. We will pay a high price if we continue to postpone these environmental tests. This is where we can redo and do the right thing.
i-3q6Kc1feumgFunJrS8WU7X	Madam President, I would like I call for the committee initiative to be approved and for the reservation to be rejected. The issue of energy supply has rarely been as topical as it is at present. However, we have lived with the issues of small-scale hydropower for a long time. The importance of small-scale hydropower for the Swedish energy system has been described as less important by a number of actors, both from a political point of view and by certain authorities. For us moderates, hydropower, even the small-scale, is important from a power supply perspective but also from a societal perspective. Many of the smaller power plants in Sweden have existed for generations. They are an important part of our countryside. They are important to those who live there. They are important cultural buildings, but they are also important for our electricity system. Madam President, I would like The conflict between biodiversity, climate, electricity supply, cultural values and water quality is something we have to deal with. The EU Water Directive governs how Swedish guidelines and regulations have been designed and how authorities have chosen to interpret existing regulations. The Riksdag has also been clear through a number of decisions that small-scale hydropower is important for Sweden from a power supply perspective but also from a climate, sustainability and culture perspective. Of course, we believe, Madam President, that small hydroelectric power should also assume its environmental responsibility and have the necessary permits to carry out its activities. I would add here that the previous speaker says that many do not have modern permits. They have not, but the Energy Agreement and the law that we decided upon after its creation state that even in memory is an environmental state, albeit not a modern one. But, as I said, small hydroelectric power should assume its environmental responsibility. And the permit processes under which it is placed should be reasonable and not impose an unreasonable burden on the individual hydropower owner. That, too, has been stated by this House. To ensure that this does not happen – that there is an unreasonable burden – there are wordings about the role of small hydropower in the energy agreement, which the Social Democrats also signed. And it is stated that the greening of hydropower will make full use of the possibilities to impose less stringent requirements resulting from EU law in favour of socially beneficial activities, for example in the communication of environmental quality standards and other regulations and in decisions on classification of water bodies. Madam President, I would like Parliament's will is clear, but unfortunately it has not had an impact on either the government or several of the government's authorities. Compliance with our decisions leaves much to be desired. That is why a number of announcements have been made about the conditions for small hydroelectric power both from the Civil Committee and from the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture. Central to all announcements is that the Swedish parliament believes that the EU's possible exceptions for assessing water quality must be fully exploited. Waters that have been affected by different activities for generations shall be considered to be significantly modified. The requirements for environmental measures shall also take this into account. Madam President, I would like Today's announcement focuses on the re-evaluations of hydropower that have now begun under the national plan. According to the EU Water Framework Directive, we must ensure that small-scale hydropower also meets the requirements regarding water quality. A review of the permits, including the ancients, should therefore take place. Now the first cases have come in and, according to the national plan, they will be dealt with. The problem is that the regulations that the water authorities have issued for the environmental quality standards, which will apply for the planning period 2021 – 2027, are still being prepared by the government. So they're not in place. This means assessing the hydropower plants that are now being assessed according to current environmental quality standards and not according to the action programme that should already have entered into force. That's a problem. It cannot be excluded that the regulatory framework will be amended by the government and that the hydroelectric power plants that come in later will be assessed under a different regulatory framework. This is not reasonable. It is unpredictable and destroys confidence in the rule of law. It is important that the trials that are now taking place are given the same conditions. Madam President, I would like We cannot stop the trials that have already begun. However, we are of the opinion that unless the new action programme, with the new environmental quality standards, is in place when the next group of requests for review comes in on 1 September this year, no new review cases will be initiated. With developments in Ukraine, the elusive price of electricity and the awareness of the need for national self-sufficiency in both food and energy, it cannot be excluded – it is even very likely – that the view of the importance of small-scale hydropower will be reconsidered and lifted in the near future. In its committee motion, the Moderate Defence Committee highlights the importance of small-scale hydropower for electricity supply in the event of a crisis. It is a committee motion that was written long before the escalation of Russia's and Putin's invasion of Ukraine. It is a motion which is appallingly topical and which is currently being discussed in the Committee on Civil Liberties. This exercise offers parties who have previously had a lukewarm view of small hydropower an opportunity to acknowledge its importance for our electricity supply. Madam President, I would like For us Moderates, small-scale hydropower has always played an important role in the construction of our society. We want to continue to see it develop and strengthen its role. This should of course be done with modern environmental conditions. This should be done through a permit process that takes advantage of both the electrical power supplied by hydropower and the power held by the many small hydropower owners. The reserves express a naivety by believing that it will work out without the announcement of the Riksdag. Unfortunately, time and again it has proved to be too passive. It is the task of Parliament, Madam President, to ensure that our decisions are implemented in the spirit and with the result that is also our opinion. It is sad, Madam President, that the Socialist Government has not acted and followed up on the previous announcements made by Parliament. But now they are given another opportunity to demonstrate the momentum of the case. This is probably the last opportunity for the government, because on 11 September we are changing the government.
i-Rb7YVJT6P1YgT3NK8GAKfz	Madam President, I would like Hydropower has been used in Sweden since time immemorial. Where electricity is produced today, mills or sawmills have often been operated by hydroelectric power. When talking about energy extraction that is so old and traditional, there should be a deeper understanding of the need and the benefits. Nevertheless, it has turned out that the present government has needed several reminders from the Riksdag, reminders in the form of announcements, which we are now again addressing the government. It is reasonable to request that hydroelectric power companies be assessed equally and fairly. For me, of course, it is more important than if the timetable laid down for the national hydroelectric re-evaluation plan is up and running. At the same time, it should of course be taken into account that the conditions are different in different parts of the country. That should be the point of having five different areas and authorities. Nevertheless, the biggest problem with the government's re-evaluation of hydropower is the timing. At the moment, Europe has suffered sudden instability. At the same time, we have been seeing sosse prices for electricity for a long time. Yes, it is sosse prices, because it was not Putin's invasion in February that pushed up the prices of electricity in December anyway. It was the poorly planned electricity market and taxes of the Social Democrats that pushed up the price. But what I want to come to is that it is not exactly the time to reduce the production of electricity when we are already in crisis in this area. A reduction is the same as even higher prices of electricity for consumers. To that shall be added the production itself. The hydroelectric power is spread all over the country. It is located in over 2,000 places, something that is very good from a safety perspective. The more places, the safer production. Only a few months ago, few believed that there could be war in Europe. Let us not be so naive now that we do not even think that Sweden can actually be attacked. If that should happen, it is very good to have many electricity producers around the country. In the current situation, to act in such a way as to lead to the closure of parts of this production is, in my view, totally irresponsible. Already the 1.5 terawatt hours indicated as maximum production loss are a problem. It is a problem if that capacity is lost. If possible, the government should of course act to maintain production so that the loss of production is less than that. Hydropower must not be forced away by regulatory and government activism. Of course, greening may be necessary to some extent, but it must certainly not be the case that electricity producers choose to shut down because they feel unfairly treated and opposed. What could really be better in terms of safety than having several thousand adjustable power sources around our country? Madam President, I would like At the moment we are in, there must be room to rethink and do the right thing. We cannot allow ourselves to become more vulnerable than necessary, and we must be able to preserve even smaller producers of electricity. Therefore, the government must make use of all the exceptions granted by EU law and ensure that there is no unnecessary loss of electricity generation. Since water has often been regulated for hundreds of years, it is not justified to do anything hasty. In many places the environment can be damaged more than it benefits if hydropower plants are suddenly demolished. There are many species and animals that have adapted to the dams and to the current water flows that will not thrive at all with a sudden uncontrolled stream. We call for the proposal to be approved and for reservations to be rejected.
i-TkoSYbV9Qye7fMQRV3KmuK	Madam President, I would like The announcement that we are deciding on after this debate is to pause and pause the re-examination of the permits available to carry out water activities, in this case small-scale production of electricity using hydroelectric power stations and dams. We in the Center Party and a majority in the Swedish Parliament have stated on several occasions that the trial that has been going on since some year is not in accordance with what was intended when the Riksdag decided on the bill Water Environment and Hydropower in June 2018. The Riksdag has subsequently announced to the Government on several occasions that it will return to the Riksdag with proposals for a regulatory framework on permit processes for water activities that are flexible and adapted to small-scale operations. Small-scale hydropower practitioners should not incur excessive costs in new permit trials, but be given the opportunity to spend most of the resources on effective, environmental improvement measures, such as the creation of migratory routes for fish, and not on administrative costs for the actual permit testing. Madam President, I would like The operator of a licensed water business for the production of hydroelectric power shall ensure that the business has modern environmental conditions. That's what the 11th chapter says. Paragraph 27 of the Environmental Code, which also states that it should be examined in accordance with a national plan implementing the EU Water Directive of 2002. The possibilities for exemptions and lower requirements provided by EU law will contribute to the continued production of electricity from small-scale hydropower in Sweden. There should be a national holistic approach, balancing the need for measures to improve the aquatic environment with the need for national, efficient access to electricity from hydropower. This is particularly important now that electricity prices are high, we live under the threat of war and there is a lack of production capacity in southern Sweden. The authorities have been given a benchmark, the so-called HARO value, to relate to. The losses must therefore not exceed 1.5 terawatt hours per year in order to achieve the desired environmental benefit of the measures. From the Center Party we believe that that is exactly what is happening now and that we therefore need to take a break and review the water authorities' action programme 2021 – 2027, among other things, so that the greening that is taking place will not go out on the possibility of increasing the impact of the existing hydropower. The suspension is made during the trial period but at an early stage. The national plan shall cover a period of 20 years and the last applications may be submitted as late as 2037. It is important to ensure that the trials under the national plan are carried out as far as possible on the basis of the same conditions and that the tests that come early in the process do not receive a different assessment than those that come later, due to the government's delay in completing the work on the national plan. For us in the Center Party, it is a matter of course that hydropower and a living aquatic environment can be combined. There are plenty of examples around Sweden where authorities and operators restored watercourses while electricity generation was strengthened, not least when it comes to small-scale production. It is operated by individuals with local and historical anchorages on the watercourse. They often have little financial resources and know-how to develop a full basis for the trial. The figures are slightly different, but there are about 1 800 such small works in Sweden. In Blomstermåla there is an example of a modern power plant that has replaced the centuries-old turbines and now provides 300 villas in the area around with electricity, all year round. The current legislation is clear that hydropower should be protected and that local benefits should be taken into account. The exemptions that are possible to use shall also be used. Nevertheless, in many cases the authorities have not acted in this way. What we see is that the objective of limiting the negative impact of environmental measures to 1.5 terawatt hours is surpassed, or is undervalued, depending on how you see it, with the consequence that power plants and dams are demolished instead of hiking routes being created, as it was intended. This is also one of the reasons why the government is now going to review the water action programmes submitted by the water authorities. This is done after announcements in the Riksdag and under the strong impetus of the Center Party. Let's do it again. We see that the old contradictions on this issue remain and that the Liberals have now joined the Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party, who do not see the benefits of small-scale hydroelectric power plants in operation, with modern and appropriate conditions. We expect the Government to do as the Riksdag urges and ensure that the action plans are updated, government instructions are changed and the legislation clarified. The problem that arises is that the activities to be tested early in the process risk getting different conditions than those that come later when the government has dealt with the problem arising from the new national plan and by not setting up the conditions from the beginning taking into account what the Riksdag has on several occasions expressed about the examination and the balance between electricity production and modern environmental conditions. It is not legally secure, nor will it create an equivalent test. It is therefore self-evident that the trials must now be postponed until all the regulations are clarified, in accordance with Parliament's will, so that the trial can go faster and become equal and more predictable. In the situation we are in now with a Russian attack war against Ukraine, where Sweden has been involved in setting up strong sanctions, we are also affected. Electricity prices have risen sharply, and preparedness prospects have become painfully present to us. In addition to nuclear power, hydropower is our base power and we are independent of imports of fossil-based, non-renewable energy. As you know, the northern rivers are not allowed to expand, and we do not yet have the transmission capacity to supply South Sweden with electricity year round. Therefore, it is crucial to protect as much hydropower as possible in southern Sweden, where we have a shortage of production. On an annual basis, energy production is not crucial, but the effect of small hydro power is significant on a cold winter day in southern Sweden. Without it, prices would run further. In addition, a large part of small-scale hydropower is built to run in so-called island operation, where the power plant can become a local power hub in a situation where other production and transmission have been knocked out by some enemy. With small investments, the technology can be adapted to reduce local vulnerability. Madam President, I would like In the process of becoming less dependent on Russian oil and gas, the contribution of hydropower is significant. This applies to both small-scale and large-scale hydropower. It is more important than ever with clear and up-to-date regulations that safeguard legal certainty and equivalence in the 16 years remaining of the trial. We can and must protect both hydropower and biodiversity. The current regulatory framework and action plans do not do so. It is therefore positive that a majority supports the Center Party's proposal to pause the trials of hydropower until the government returns with updated regulations. These should be rules that allow small hydroelectric plants that contribute to the supply of electricity, often run with small resources and great commitment, to continue to exist. I support the proposal in the report and reject the reservation.
i-Bsccey4RgfuMnNVX22RbNV	Madam President, I would like The small hydro power that remains in the country was founded during the Swedish industrialisation when hydropower gave power to mills and forges. With electrification, many plants were rebuilt to produce electricity. The Christian Democrats see small-scale hydropower as an important part of Swedish electricity production, not least in view of the increased production of non-planned power in the form of sun and water. Of Sweden's more than 1,300 bodies of water with different types of humanly regulated flows, only 56 have been categorized as highly modified water – KMV. These 56 large power plants play an important role in Swedish energy supply. In view of the increasingly important task of even smaller power plants to maintain the energy balance in the electricity grid as more solar and wind power is produced, smaller plants should also be classed as KMV. For several reasons, it is important to safeguard small-scale hydropower and to ensure good conditions for continued operation. Given the transition we are in the middle of, we need all the electricity we can get. In addition, the continued witch hunt on the small hydroelectric power will destroy old environments and habitats that have been built up for centuries. The collapse of the old hydroelectric power stations is forcing completely new water courses, thus risking an ecologically contrary effect to what has been sought if you want to tear down the old dams. We need all the electricity that can be produced in Sweden. This applies not only in the time of concern in Europe that we are now experiencing, but also in the past. When two of the reactors in Ringhals were shut down, they destroyed the Red-Green Sweden's energy mix so that prices skyrocketed. The prices in areas 3 and 4 are sometimes unreasonable if we want to say at the same time that we have a good energy mix and surplus. Prices that we had previously had nightmares have become reality, and people are now worried about the next electricity bill. As if it weren't enough, the red-green gang persists in destroying our energy mix by the fact that the government seems to regard small-scale hydropower as the largest environmental villain. You do everything you can to make it fall in scope or disappear. Hydropower that has existed for countless decades has suddenly become harmful, and at a time when we would really need it, the red-green gang wants to deteriorate by making the trials so difficult that it will have to shut down or remove. Is that really the way to go? Not for us Christian Democrats. We believe that small hydro power should be developed and not decommissioned. A majority in the civil committee is now proposing to the government that the timetable for the re-evaluation of hydro power be shifted. A majority in the Civil Committee also wants the government to ensure that all necessary measures are taken to minimise the negative impact of re-evaluations on hydroelectric power generation and that the exemptions granted by EU law are fully used. However, the question is whether the government will comply with the call or continue to allow authorities to wreak havoc without following Parliament's recent decisions. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Center Party for proposing another committee initiative on small hydropower. It is important and welcome. But it is also the Center Party that has put us in this situation. The party has supported a government that for almost eight years has taken a completely different line from the party itself and a majority in the parliament would consider appropriate in this matter. Bourgeois politics is carried out by bourgeois parties and a bourgeois government. The Center Party should have learned that. I support the committee's proposal.
i-4tMfdjijfiooTdzqkrE4AM	Madam President, I would like Adam Marttinen has asked me why I have not heeded the parliamentary announcement regarding forced testing. He has also asked me about the freedom of movement of displaced persons and whether, in view of the fact that tens of thousands of foreigners, according to him, have recently gone underground, the government will commit the Police Authority to increasing the number of internal border controls and to allowing the authority's competence to best determine how that objective is achieved. A fundamental prerequisite for a long-term sustainable migration policy that counteracts the emergence of a shadow society is that those who have been refused their asylum application or for other reasons may not stay in Sweden. A number of measures have been taken to increase return and counter the emergence of a shadow society. The detention capacity has doubled, and the Police Authority has been given increased opportunities to carry out workplace checks and more tools to use in internal foreign control. The government is now intensifying its work further, including through measures aimed at better control of the labour market and more effective return.
i-52R5fcutn3FBsACWvF6pzp	Madam President, I would like The expulsions of foreigners have recently been brought up to date. It is not surprising, not least after amazing figures have been reported both by the Migration Agency and by the Police Authority. Last year it was reported that the police had 18 000 open cases concerning the enforcement of expulsion decisions and that over 10 000 foreigners had deviated and gone underground. The work of the police on internal immigration controls has been strongly criticised by the Social Democrats and not least by the Minister of Justice and Home Affairs of the Social Democrats. In an up-to-date debate on internal immigration controls and ID controls in public transport in April 2013, the criticism was repeated in all the speeches by the Social Democrats against a writing in the then alliance government's regulatory letter to the Police Authority to significantly increase the number of internal immigration controls. The Social Democrats said that the problem in connection with illegal residents in Sweden is that rogue entrepreneurs can use illegal as cheap labour and that the police's resources would go to nail these entrepreneurs, not to look for illegal ones in themselves. Furthermore, the Social Democrats have stated in the media that police resources should go to prioritising housing offences over internal foreigners' controls. After the Social Democrats formed the government in 2014, the number of internal checks on foreigners decreased and the work was directed towards employers. At the same time, immigration increased sharply and generated more expulsion decisions and, not least, more cases to the police about those who have deviated from an expulsion decision. Some known problems with the execution of expulsion decisions, in addition to the fact that internal checks on aliens have been severely reduced and not developed significantly in the working method, are that the number of detention places is not sufficient. The police have not been given the opportunity to test foreigners for example covid-19 if required by the host country. Nor has work been developed in terms of the forms in which detention can be used and encouraging voluntary return when host countries refuse to accept forced expulsions. The Swedish Parliament has also announced to the government that the police should be given the power to test foreigners for expulsion decisions for example covid-19 in order to facilitate expulsions to recipient countries that require testing.
i-H4ohB9RWNmdZuqjgvSebSx	It has now been over a year since Parliament's announcement of forced testing. Why has the government not complied with Parliament's wishes and thus facilitated the police's work on expulsions? Should foreigners whose host countries refuse to accept displaced persons be able to reside freely in our country, or does the government intend to take any measure to restrict the freedom of movement of these foreigners, such as the end of detention? Given that tens of thousands of foreigners have recently gone underground, does the government intend to instruct the Police Authority to significantly increase the number of internal foreigners' controls and to allow the Police Authority's overall competence to determine how best to achieve an effective goal? It is therefore a concrete question whether the government intends to change its wording in the regulation letter to the Police Authority to a wording that means significantly increasing the number of internal checks on aliens. The answer I have received from Minister Ygeman does not contain any opinion whatsoever. It does not contain an answer to any of the three questions that the Government has had weeks to prepare for. I suppose there will be something more of this interpellation debate than the answer given by Ygeman, because these are serious questions. These are issues that create a shadow society and create crime, issues where the government's work so far has not been enough. To double the number of detention centres has not been enough. The pervasive criticism from the police is that there are no detention places in order to take care of people who are to be expelled from our country. Criticism is justified. What is the government's response?
i-TKgnkghBDMYUakjj6AWcR1	Madam President, I would like It is somewhat telling that Sweden Democrats' main criticism of the government is a quote from 2013, when this government was not even in power. A nine-year-old quote – one has no better basis than that for one's claims, perhaps one should do other than write interpellations and sit in parliament. Our writing in the regulations letter to the police and to the Migration Agency is that they will significantly increase the return. Then we are prepared to take a number of measures to get there. We've doubled the number of detention sites. This is an important step. We will continue to increase them. We have had and will have a rather strict dialogue with those countries that refuse to stand up for their commitments and accept their own citizens. During my time as Minister of the Interior, I had such a dialogue with Morocco, where we had not been able to return a single Moroccan citizen for eight years. But with the dialogue we had, we managed to solve that problem, and the problem we had with Moroccan street children on our streets disappeared. Since then, we have had good cooperation with Morocco and been able to return. We are doing similar work with a number of other countries that have refused to accept their own citizens. We have seen the first returns to Iraq. I think we're up to a dozen returns to Iraq. To Lebanon it has begun. It is far too small in both Lebanon and Iraq. There are probably a few to Lebanon, but there will be more there too. We need to have a corresponding dialogue with Somalia, which is another such country. We are prepared to use our entire foreign policy arsenal to persuade these countries to take responsibility for their own citizens, including helping them to receive their own citizens and social measures in the countries. So there is active work going on. Since 2014, over 95 000 people have returned from Sweden. We are well in the European statistics on return. We are well located in the Nordic statistics on returns. But I'm not happy. I want us to top that statistic. We should be the best at giving a yes and a good reception to those who need to flee war and oppression, but we also need to be the best at ensuring that those who do not flee war and oppression can return to their home countries in a good way.
i-CvAhnDxwN2kpwrN6sTWXPY	Madam President, I would like Perhaps I had a somewhat too complicated speech for the Government. My starting point from 2013 was to give a picture of the ambition that the Social Democrats had in opposition and that they have later realized in their time in government, namely that the number of internal foreign controls should be reduced. This is what has happened when the Social Democrats have been in power for almost eight years – the number of internal foreigners' controls has fallen sharply. Figures suggest that they have decreased by about 80% over the last ten years. It is clear that it is nice to have an ambition and a will as a minister to top the list when it comes to executing expulsions of illegal residents. But the question then becomes why there is not a single answer from the Government or from the Government to three concrete questions about what could lead us to do so. It is not very nice to talk about what you have done that resulted in a situation where you do not top the list in response to how to top the list. It is like new measures that are needed to move forward. There I have asked the Government three specific questions. One is about whether he is prepared to change the regulation letter to the Police Authority about greatly increasing the number of internal foreigner controls, yes or no. It's a pretty simple question. I can take it one more time and speak a little slower: Is the government prepared to change the regulation letter to the police authority about increasing the number of internal foreign controls, yes or no? It should have been clear now what I'm asking. I also ask how detention places are used and whether it is intended to change the rules currently in force in order, for example, to be able to use detention centres in cases where host countries refuse forced expulsions and keep people in detention to encourage voluntary return. I am not going to repeat that question – now let Ygeman be a little more alert over there in the bench. The last question is, of course, Parliament's announcement. A majority in the Riksdag has thus announced to the government that it should be possible to forcely test those who are to be expelled if the recipient country requires it in the case of covid-19, for example. This is because the Police Authority today has had to stop aircraft from taking off from Arlanda or wherever they are now taking off from crowded with people who suddenly refuse to test themselves. It is therefore an extremely costly administration that has arisen because the government has not heeded Parliament's will for such a small, simple thing as to force testing for covid-19, for example, in order to execute expulsions. There are huge numbers of expulsions that have not been carried out because of the government's inaction and ill will towards the police's work with internal foreign controls. I would like answers at least to these questions. Most of all, I would like to see a higher level of ambition in the government. But it remains to be seen. I give Anders Ygeman the opportunity in his next speech to answer these questions and possibly share a new level of ambition with the government.
i-SuETp7rB881TkXy2BKR7pE	Madam President, I would like It is a tragic political spectacle presented by Adam Marttinen in the Parliament's pulpit. But it is clear that if the best argument is a quote from 2013, you have to replace it with political theatre, and at the front of the gypsum game is Adam Marttinen himself. With regard to the regulation letter that Adam Marttinen is asking about, there is nothing in it that stipulates that the number of internal checks on aliens should be X or Y, for the simple reason that the police have that tool themselves. What is written in the regulation letter is that far more will return. That's what's at the heart of it.
i-A47xuBmx3msDLm1gGEgLst	Madam President, I would like So there was not a single answer and not a full speaking time from the Government. And it must be decided by the audience who makes a fool of themselves in this debate. I think it is quite clear what the outcome will be. As stated in the regulation letter, more expulsions are to be carried out. But the question was whether the Police Authority should be given the task of carrying out more internal foreign controls. We do not get that answer from the government, because there is an ill will from red-green or social-democratic governments or whatever it may be for governments where the Social Democrats have an influence against the police engaging in internal checks on foreigners, which has thus been reduced by 80% over the last ten years. During these ten years, for example, we have seen a terrorist attack linked to a person who would have been expelled but could go underground in 2017. We've seen multiple murders. We've seen rapes. We have seen serious crime linked to very dangerous people who have chosen to go underground because it is possible to go underground in Sweden. 10,000 individuals over whom we have no control have been able to go underground in the last year. The government's answer to this is that it hopes that the police will do their job best. There is therefore no government control of a clear mission to achieve results. In view of the 80% reduction in internal controls on foreigners, the government does not want to say that they should be increased. But the number of foreigners to be expelled but who have gone underground has increased. It should be a mission that goes hand in hand with the development that the government's immigration failure has generated. But instead, we get this spectacle and these non-answers from a tired government and a tired minister who doesn't take these questions seriously.
i-MS6k5H5buBrVpmmx9iDhFV	Madam President, I would like The fact that Adam Marttinen does not understand the answers is not the basis for saying that they are not answers. I'll try to explain it further. We are not directing the Authority towards individual actions, but we are directing the Authority towards results. The result that the government wants to see is that more of those who do not have the right to reside in the country will return. In order to achieve this result, we have taken a number of different measures, which I have preferred here in the speaker's chair. We have improved the situation with the recipient countries so that people can return to more countries. We have doubled the detention capacity so that more can be taken into custody while waiting for deportation or deportation. We have invested 12 billion extra on the police. We have more police employees and more police than ever. We have also said in similar regulatory letters to the Migration Agency and the Police Authority that the number of returnees will increase significantly. Adam Marttinen is lying when he says in the speaker's room that there is no police control. This is what is written in the Regulatory Letter – the number of returnees should increase significantly. That's an ambition that Adam Marttinen can also support, isn't it?
i-548XaU2Qjr93CXwmT29poZ	Madam President, I would like Markus Wiechel has asked me whether I believe that those who hold a residence permit for refugee reasons can retain their refugee status even if they have gone to their home country on holiday and what measures I am prepared to take if this is not the case. He has also asked how current handling of residence permits rhymes with the right of asylum when people who do not need protection still have refugee status in Sweden and whether I will take any general measures in view of people with refugee status going on holiday to their home countries. If a person with refugee status returns voluntarily to the country from which he or she has fled, this may mean that he or she is no longer a refugee and that the person's declaration of refugee status should therefore be withdrawn. This follows both the Aliens Act and international law. In some cases, it may be necessary to withdraw the person's residence permit. It is the Finnish Immigration Service which, after an individual assessment in each individual case, decides whether a status statement or a residence permit should be revoked. The fact that some people are abusing the asylum system is regrettable and must be countered. Both the Migration Agency and the Border Police are also working today to check that this is not happening. The Finnish Immigration Service has, among other things, decided to establish a national control analysis function that will increase the ability to detect and act against abuse. The Government has confidence that the Migration Agency, together with the Border Police, applies the existing regulatory framework and does not intend to take any further action at this time.
i-XCC9BHunAgVG5xXHNwQDsh	Madam President, I would like As is well known, Sweden is a unique country from the point of view of migration policy – few countries have in modern times driven such a liberal and irresponsible migration policy as Sweden. In addition, we in Sweden have uniquely generous conditions for those who have chosen to go to our country, which of course has made it more attractive when it comes to coming here. The enormous pressure on asylum has mainly been on people from countries far from ours who have been attracted to Sweden in a short time. In our country, too, a large number of residence permits have been granted on the grounds that these are people on the run. Madam President, I would like Despite high tax levels, which have been at the top of the world, and a slaughtered defense, insecurity has increased explosively. Basic welfare such as care, school and care has been destroyed. The segregation has increased, and the alienation areas are growing. Not least in the light of Russia's disgusting aggression and invasion of Ukraine, we see further consequences of this devastating policy. Now that we would have needed a much better starting point in order to be able to receive refugees, mainly women and children, from the neighbourhood, our society suffers badly from the migration policy choices that have been made in the past. Madam President, I would like The Government has received three questions from the undersigned. All aim to obtain clarification regarding the government's acceptance of a recurrent abuse of the right of asylum, namely that people who have been granted a residence permit in Sweden on the basis that they are considered refugees choose to holiday in their countries of origin. When this happens, the basis of protection for these individuals has either ceased or been wrong from the beginning. This means that the person concerned should lose his or her refugee status and residence permit. If this does not happen, the government is actually helping to undermine the right of asylum. Madam President, I would like In his reply, the Minister for Migration chose to point out that a person with refugee status who voluntarily returns to the country from which he or she has fled may risk losing his or her refugee status and residence permit in the light of letters under the Aliens Act and international law. The Government also said that it is the Migration Agency that makes an individual assessment in each individual case and decides this. He claimed that the misuse of the asylum system was problematic. Despite this, we see recurring examples of how people with refugee status travel closest to shuttle traffic between their home country and Sweden. Some may even live in their home country while, like Iraq's former Minister for Defence, they get part of the Swedish grant system. This won't hold. It should reasonably be the case that you automatically lose your obviously wrong refugee status the second you visit your former home country. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to say that the definition of who is and is not a refugee cannot be made clearer than it already is. There are, as the Minister himself has said in the reply, clear wordings to relate to. Yet Anders Ygeman explicitly says that he does not intend to take any action. What reason is there for looking between your fingers when it is quite obvious that it is now almost unproblematic to holiday in the country from which you claim to have fled and to which you say you cannot return, and yet retain your residence permit?
i-VHLabLb1KjFTYrrHdMF5Q8	Madam President, I would like Just as Markus Wiechel expresses, the rules are clear. It is up to the authorities to apply the rules. After all, the authority has also removed refugee status for people who have made the kind of travel that Markus Wiechel is talking about, and the court has ruled accordingly. If that's true, we don't have to disagree. There is that possibility. That is what our legislation looks like, and that is what European legislation looks like. Markus Wiechel says that the definition of who is a refugee and who is not a refugee cannot be made clearer than it is. I welcome this; it is a good position from the Swedish Democrats. But I am a little perplexed, because in several other contexts the Swedish Democrats have said that it is not real refugees who have come to Sweden. Markus Wiechel says that we should only receive refugees from our neighbourhood. He says that we have mainly received refugees from countries far away from our country. Then I will be a little perplexed, because one of the greatest receptions we have made is from the war in the former Yugoslavia and from refugees from Bosnia. Leading representatives of the Swedish Democrats have, of course, expressed that the mass murder in Srebrenica would not have been a real genocide and that those who fled the war would not have been real refugees. Although I also count Ukraine to our immediate vicinity, after all, Mariupol, who is now being bombed by Putin's warfare, is further away than Mostar, from which many fled during the Bosnian war. My simple question to Markus Wiechel is: why did you not think that refugees from the war in Yugoslavia were real refugees even though they came from our neighbourhood?
i-5bz9dTNHDvhJi4dPx8wtVo	Madam President, I would like As Anders Ygeman will know, I have been standing in this speaker's chair – or these speakers – several times, not least before, during and after the refugee crisis in 2015, as a member of the Social Security Committee and as a spokesperson for migration policy. I have discussed these issues time and again, and so have other representatives of the Swedish Democrats. I regret that Anders Ygeman does not understand our policy or what we have been saying all along. It shouldn't be very unclear. If we start from the Dublin Regulation, it is clear that Sweden has committed itself to the rules that stipulate that asylum should be sought in the first safe country of arrival. That is something that still applies. If it is then that there is war or problem in our neighbourhood, we have a greater responsibility to help those people. There's nothing strange about that. Madam President, I would like The right to asylum is guaranteed, inter alia, by Article 18 of the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights. Asylum is also a right granted to persons who fulfil the criteria of the 1951 Geneva Convention on the Status of Refugees. As is well known, it is what is commonly referred to as the United Nations Convention on Refugees. The first chapter makes it clear who is a refugee. The term "refugee" is thus legally limited to a person who has fled his country in a well-founded fear of persecution on the grounds of race, religion, membership of a particular social group or political affiliation, who is outside the country in which he is a citizen and who, because of the fear mentioned earlier, cannot or does not wish to return to that country. The final words cannot be misinterpreted, cannot or will not return to that country. The definition of who is and is not a refugee simply cannot be made clearer. I repeat, therefore, that the basis of protection for these individuals has either ceased or been wrong from the outset. These people have by definition lost their legal right to be called a refugee.
i-72qk1UozdUcvg5AwkXGuMq	Madam President, I would like We agree that anyone who has come here and claimed a protection base and then goes back to the country from which he or she claims to need protection should lose his or her refugee status. This is also happening today, as I described. In addition, the Finnish Immigration Service has further intensified this work. We don't have to disagree about that. But I'm getting a little insecure, Markus Wiechel. Did you really answer my question? The question was why you believe that those who fled the war in Yugoslavia were not real refugees but think that those who flee the war in Ukraine are refugees. With the definition that Markus Wiechel reads out, those from Ukraine would not be refugees either, because Sweden and Ukraine are bordering, as far as I do not know. It would be interesting to know why one group, those fleeing from Putin war in Ukraine, is described as real refugees, while those fleeing from the war in Yugoslavia are not regarded as real refugees. The Swedish Democrats have even gone so far as to try to minimize the genocide in Srebrenica. It would be exciting if Markus Wiechel could take the time to develop his answer. I'm really curious. There's been a pretty big discussion about this. Various Swedish democrats have said different things. But I hope Markus Wiechel can work it out.
i-DpmuJSDCsfmZaLKPnWpXdm	Madam President, I would like There is no doubt that what happened in Srebrenica was a genocide. I can't see where the government got what he said. With regard to the war in Yugoslavia, it was absolutely a question of refugees. The answer to the question where to seek protection is of course the first safe country of arrival. After that, you will have to assist as possible. But again: Anders Ygeman is a master at trying to dribble away his responsibilities. The responsibility he has in this case is to answer the question. The fact that some people on vacation in their home countries lose residence permits and protection grounds does not mean that everything is fine. It only happens once in a while. Why can it not be ensured that automatically those who go on holidays in their home countries lose their status as a refugee according to the Swedish definition and residence permit? This should be a matter of course in accordance with the international agreements that Sweden has agreed to. Madam President, I would like We saw this not least when the evacuation from Afghanistan was going on and there was a so-called Swedish list. It was one or another on that list that was on vacation in its home country – Afghanistan in that case – but was actually considered a refugee in Sweden.
i-HC7byLNqLLtbgLap8hKF1a	Madam President, I would like First, I will answer Markus Wiechels's question. An active authority decision is required. This is the case with any exercise of authority, whether it is a matter of granting a right of protection or of withdrawing any right of protection. This must also be subject to judicial review. I really believe that even the Swedish Democrats, if they think about it, think of it as a proper order. Then, of course, one might wish that more of those who abuse this could be discovered. That's why the Migration Agency has set up a special department to deal with this kind of cheating. Then, unfortunately, no matter how many efforts you make, there will always be someone you will not discover. Unfortunately, that is the order of life. But we're gonna do everything we can to make sure you find this. Markus Wiechel asked me where I got what I said about the Srebrenica genocide. I have simply received it from Erik Almqvist, who I believe was a fiscal spokesperson for the Swedish Democrats. He said in connection with the commemoration day of the Srebrenica genocide: He believes that it would not even be classified as a genocide. He was probably one of the leading Swedish democrats back then. I could also stand here in the speaker's chair and read out a number of quotes that Markus Wiechel certainly recognizes from Swedish democrats who claimed that those who fled from ex-Jugoslavia were not refugees. The first asylum country principle, says Markus Wiechel. But Sweden does not border Ukraine. In that case, Poland, Romania or Hungary would take care of all refugees. Nevertheless, I understand that the Swedish Democrats now think that – to quote another Swedish Democrat in southern Sweden – we should open our hearts to those fleeing Ukraine.
i-2XJBrqKqsK8QJikVaKdAdb	Madam President, I would like Marie-Louise-Louise Hänel Sandström has asked the Minister for Social Affairs if she can explain what initiatives the Minister and the Government have taken in connection with the e-information campaigns against Swedish social services and what initiatives the Minister and the Government intend to take to ensure that correct information on Swedish social services reaches the public. In an interpellation on the same theme, Ludvig Aspling has asked what the Minister of Social Affairs intends to do to deal with the situation. Both interpellations have been handed over to me. In recent months, we have seen examples of widespread rumours in various social media – both in Sweden and abroad – where social services are alleged to kidnap, imprison and sexually exploit Muslim children. Such a disinformation campaign can mean that people do not dare to turn to Swedish authorities and that children risk not getting the protection and support they need. In a broader perspective, this also means an attack on the Swedish rule of law, on our authorities and ultimately on our democracy, because it undermines people's confidence in our common institutions. It's a dangerous development. Responsible authorities have recently worked intensively to respond to disinformation with a focus on available and correct information and facts. It includes communication in different languages about LVU and how the legislation works. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare also has contact with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions, SKR, and other stakeholders to ensure that the social services have the necessary facts and evidence to be able to respond to rumours and answer any questions. All Swedish embassies have received information and suggestions for communication in order to respond, if appropriate in the specific country context, to the disinformation. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has also informed the embassies here about the ongoing campaign. The Swedish Institute has also communicated in its channels. On 2 February 2022, the Government received the report "A stronger view of crimes against journalists and practitioners of certain social functions", where the investigation proposes, among other things, the introduction of new crimes for those who attack certain practitioners of social functions. The proposed provisions will provide staff, for example in the field of social services, with equivalent enhanced criminal protection, such as police officers. The inquiry's proposals have been submitted for consultation. The government has long pointed out the problems of the presence and distribution of illegal material on social platforms. Violent extremism, terrorism, threats and misinformation occur on these platforms and reach millions of people every day. The government has therefore been a driving force in the EU to tighten the legislation to keep the social workers free from hatred, threats and other illegal content. The government is, of course, following these developments closely.
i-2GULG49EiqdPiNDPn4KVkp	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister Ygeman for the answer to my interpellation. I asked the very questions mentioned: can the Minister explain what initiatives the Minister and the Government have taken in relation to the above information? What initiatives do the Minister and the Government intend to take to ensure that correct information about Swedish social services reaches the public? I have received some answers, but unfortunately the problems are still there and have not been reduced, but on the contrary increased. This is worrying, and I know that more needs to be done. As the Government says, these disinformation campaigns are nothing new. They have been going on for a long time, and this has been known for many years in social services. However, they have received more attention since they started on Twitter in December 2012 and above all spread on many platforms for Arabic speakers. There have also been demonstrations in many places. Extremists continue to spread this message across all kinds of channels, and it spreads extremely quickly to a great many people. Madam President, I would like I am pleased that the Government is taking the problem seriously, because it is very serious and grassessing. It risks undermining trust in society in many areas, not only in social services, although it is currently most affected. This complicates the work of our social secretaries, who are already quite vulnerable. Of course, children and adults are also at risk of not getting the help they need and are entitled to. I believe that many children can get hurt because they are afraid of social services and civil society. As has been said, it can affect several areas of society such as police and health care, for example in the case of vaccinations. The Government says that many relevant authorities are working on these issues. How many? And what is being done and planned in addition to what has been mentioned before? Obviously, what is happening is not enough. How do you follow up on what you do? These disinformation campaigns have led to an increased threat picture in the social services, so both police and security services are connected. I know there are several cases where the staff need police protection. That is absolutely not the case; it is extremely serious. It is very good that the report has come up with a stronger view of crimes against journalists and practitioners of certain socially useful functions, but this must be speeded up. There's a round of referrals going on, but we can't wait for the answers. Something has to be done now. It is a good thing that social secretaries can be given enhanced protection in criminal matters, but, as I said, something needs to be done urgently. Otherwise, there will be no social secretaries left, and concerns will spread further and confidence in society will be further reduced. How does the Minister work in this emergency situation? Much is being done, but more needs to be done.
i-DP6HVyZ53rm5ysDKqZTxZY	Madam President, I would like The campaign going on against Swedish social services online and in some foreign television channels is a serious and real threat to the Swedish legal order. But it is neither a new phenomenon nor close to the whole picture of problems posed by organized and politically motivated Islamism in Sweden. Rather, this is about the tip of an iceberg, an iceberg that this government has deliberately allowed to grow, both wide and deep. And at the risk of making a little noise, I would like to remind the House once again that one of the parties represented in this debate saw this coming, and it is not Anders Ygeman's party. Social democracy is now being forced to reap what it once sown. The Swedish integration policy has been based for a few decades on the so-called principle of freedom of choice, which means that it is entirely optional for those who move to Sweden to what extent they want to adapt to the norms and values that apply here. This is expressed in the teamwork as follows:- Integration is not just a question of and for immigrants. In a society of ethnic and cultural diversity, people should complement each other and mutually contribute their skills and life experience. ..................................................... Furthermore:" Society should (...) make it easier for the individual to integrate old and new life patterns and lifestyles in the way he wishes. ..................................................... Finally, the institutions of the majority society are developed on the basis of the diversity of society. ..................................................... The aim of the social democratic construction of society is therefore that all possible values should be welcomed without limiting principle. Madam President, I would like This political orientation is now beginning to reach its logical end: that people who bear values that are diametrically opposed to the European ideals – equality between the sexes, children's autonomy and the right and freedom to choose religion, or perhaps no religion at all – demand that Swedish law to the extent that it clashes with their values should not apply to them. They demand a parallel legal system for a large part of the population, and in practice they demand Sweden's dissolution as the rule of law. They're about tens of thousands, maybe hundreds of thousands of people. Anders Ygeman tries to reduce this to just a question of misinformation, but it is not that simple. It is the Social Democrats' version of integration that makes the disinformation campaign both possible and in some cases quite simple. My question to the Government is therefore: Does the Government think that this problem would have been somewhat less if Sweden had asked for a reasonable cultural adaptation of people who want to move here and, above all, if a few years ago we had begun to demand that those who apply for a permanent residence permit or citizenship should be able to assimilate information in the Swedish language? At least that is something we think is quite fundamental. The language question is very interesting, because if you see this as a pure question of disinformation, it is of course so that if you demand that people understand Swedish from the beginning this problem should be a little less. But so far the Social Democracy never saw it, and we still have no sharp proposals in this area. I thank you for the floor and I eagerly await Anders Ygeman's reply.
i-6G7sDux952JDkVPCPR2pqN	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by answering the Moderate question. The authorities that are primarily involved are the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare, the Swedish Agency for Psychological Defence, our foreign authorities in each country, the Swedish Institute and also the Swedish Security Police and police when it comes to criminal activities. It also answers the question of what to do with those social secretaries who, for whatever reason, are exposed to threats or threats of violence in their professional activities. Ludvig Aspling asks a two-part question. On the first part I say no, and on the second part I say yes. However, I think it is a big misunderstanding if you think that disinformation campaigns can only benefit from people not speaking the language. We see huge Russian disinformation campaigns against the Russian population, and being well educated in Russian is therefore not a vaccine against incorrect information. Unfortunately, it is perfectly possible to conduct disinformation campaigns in the same language as well. In response to Ludvig Aspling's question, I shall put a counter-question. The government and a majority in the Riksdag have pushed to step up work within the EU towards disinformation so that the large platform companies will develop action plans against disinformation, that hatred and threats will be removed from the network and that platform companies will be obliged to remove this type of disinformation material. The Swedish Democrats, as the only party in the Swedish Parliament, have opposed this. Instead, they wanted to go in the other direction and lighten the regulatory framework so that it would be easier to spread hate, threats and misinformation online. In the light of Sweden's interest in this particular disinformation campaign, I would like to ask Ludvig Aspling whether you have changed your mind and whether you now think it is reasonable that we take tougher measures against hatred, threats and misinformation, or whether you are still the only party in the Swedish Parliament that wants to make it easier to hate, threaten and spread disinformation campaigns online.
i-5bmA6EWLLkMeGQeSJLjNfy	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister Ygeman for further answers. But I'm not really happy anyway because unfortunately it doesn't work the way we do now. So we must do more. Of course, we should influence in such a way that threats, hatred and misinformation should not be spread online. But then we also need to get better at discovering this, getting better at stopping it and getting better at telling us how it really is. I'm afraid that's where we missed. It does not reveal how it really works in the Swedish system. Of course, we do not want any misinformation in relation to preventive work. But then we must also tell you that the laws that exist in Sweden apply to everyone regardless of which country you come from. Swedish law therefore applies to everyone. We need to be very clear about that. We must also tell you how the whole decision-making process is done when, for example, a decision is made to take care of a child – that there are very many people involved but also that a decision can be appealed. It is also important to tell them that there may be errors from social services, but hopefully it will not. But then there is also the possibility to appeal. But perhaps not everyone knows that this possibility exists. This must be told easily and, of course, in different languages. This is something you work with, of course, with SKR. It's great that the regions are there. But we need to involve the state, the municipalities and the regions and we need to develop the work much more. I think the county boards should be more involved. The Swedish Civil Protection Agency also needs to be involved. This is a big business, and it is growing all the time if we do not stop it. We've got a lot of people connected, but that's not enough. We're going to have more people plugged in. And we must be very clear that Swedish law applies and that one can appeal against a Swedish law. It is a protection that is very important to know about. What else can we do? We can, of course, ensure that we do not fund those who run an extreme activity that is undemocratic in Sweden. They shall not have a contribution from Sweden. There should be no undemocratic communities that deliberately spread disinformation. Unfortunately, it is on purpose that this disinformation is disseminated. We also need to work more on this to stop it. So there is much that the Government is going to make sure that we are still working on.
i-Bzztcf5XBdJt5mRjFNCicY	Madam President, I would like The root of this problem is not really some cases of care according to LVU, although it is politically convenient for Anders Ygeman and Company to describe the matter in that way. What has happened is that the social services have become a point of contact between this Muslim civil society on the one hand and the rest of Sweden on the other. The root of the problem is not really that leaders of this Muslim civil society can burn hatred against Sweden through disinformation. In fact, misinformation can be countered by proper information. And for those who are interested in finding out the truth here, it is not very difficult to find the facts. The problem is that a great deal of hatred against Sweden is not due to misinformation but to pure truths, Madam President. That is what is at the heart of the problem. The Doku Foundation has done a good job of translating what is actually said online in several of the online forums that are identified as the basis of this campaign. I am a member of one of these Facebook groups myself, and I recommend Anders Ygeman to become one as well. It's both interesting and pretty scary. I'm going to read a summary that Doku has written. It says: In addition to disgusting social services and other authorities, the cape is also repeatedly directed against women's freedom in Sweden and against Western values. Posts about Western society pouring intellectual homosexuality, whatever it may be, into the woman's mind and general hatred of homosexuals come back. Several writers say that the Muslim woman has been tempted to live by Swedish and Western values and has therefore been brought to ruin. The fact that women in Sweden are expected to work and can make a living with their own salary in order to live a freer life is seen as a threat. A woman who no longer obeys her husband is now thinking of herself, which is clearly not positive. One person writes about how the Swedish child law and women's freedom constitute a malevolent confrontation against religion, customs and traditions that Muslims are raised to and want to live under in Sweden. Madam President, I would like So the problem is not exclusively things that are not true. A large part of the problem are things that are not only true but also go straight into the soul for what should apply here in Sweden. If you look at this from an ethical point of view, another question is really to what extent you can actually blame these people. They have been promised by Anders Ygeman's party that they will be able to continue living just as they did in their home countries even here in Sweden. It even says in the preparatory work for the law, Anders Ygeman – that there should be a variety of values, that old and new life patterns should be able to be integrated as you wish. Is it not, in view of this, time to leave the idea of an unlimited diversity of values, old and new life patterns and so on and demand a reasonable cultural adaptation of those who want to live in Sweden? I don't think it's a day too soon. Anders Ygeman took the opportunity to ask two questions. Among other things, he asked whether we are behind the problem of misinformation that should be erased online because it is illegal. I can only inform Anders Ygeman that he will not enter into debates on matters he does not understand. Disinformation is not illegal. It is not today a freedom of expression offence to disseminate misinformation. There are a number of freedom of expression violations in Sweden. It's about incitement to terrorist crimes, illegal threats, incitement to ethnic groups and so on. Disinformation isn't illegal, so it can't be erased. I would also like to inform Anders Ygeman of what the Freedom of the Press Regulation says about this. In Sweden it is laid down in the Constitution that under no circumstances can the state censor material. Responsibility for printed writing can only be demanded after something has been published. It is a basis for the Swedish Freedom of the Press Regulation, and we shall remain on it.
i-UdJuYHajeg6p1BWsQtyCj2	Madam President, I would like Marie-Louise-Louise Hänel Sandström says that more needs to be done. I couldn't agree more. It is likely that we will never get to all the misinformation, but we need to do much more to get to the disinformation. Of course, if there are associations that receive funding and are involved in this, we will strangle the funds for them. Ludvig Aspling reads things from the Doku Foundation. I agree that it is not accounts that I support. But when they describe homosexuality and the Western way of life, it sounds surprisingly like Orbán's or Putin's statements that the Swedish Democrats usually embrace and spread. There are even leading Swedish democrats who have emigrated to Hungary to avoid immigration – how they get it together. Ludvig Aspling talks about the root of the problem. A root must be the strange view of Sweden's democrats that we have too little hatred and threats on social media and that the legislation needs to be relaxed. These disinformation campaigns can continue to be driven by hatred and threats as an important element. The Swedish Democrats as the only party in the Swedish Parliament think that these disinformation campaigns can flourish and that it should not be an obligation to remove manifestly illegal material from the network. Why are the Swedish Democrats the only party in the Swedish parliament that has this opinion? Could it be because hatred and threats are part of the Swedish democratic political strategy?
i-Du2TqBuVEQmastuN2vcbmN	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for further answers. As the Government says, there is always more to be done. Therefore, we will always continue to hunt you. It is the government that has the highest responsibility. And this is something we must stop now. Unfortunately, it is growing in society at the moment. It's hard to hire social security. I come from Gothenburg, and I know that there are several gaps because many people do not want to work as a social security secretary because there are so many threats. And the misinformation, unfortunately, causes further threats, and they are unable to cope with their work properly. They need police protection to do their job. I therefore hope that this will continue to be actively pursued. I will continue to hunt you in the government and say that you have the highest responsibility, Anders Ygeman. Cooperation is also important, and it is the state, region and municipality that must continue to work on this together. Of course, threats, hatred and misinformation should not be allowed online. Of course, what we're pushing is that it shouldn't be like this. The important thing is to get the right information, and as I have said before, we must announce what opportunities exist and what rights apply in Sweden – but also that the Swedish law applies to everyone. There are no special laws for different people, but the Swedish law applies to everyone. I hope that the Government does not settle down after having said that there is more to be done without actually doing more.
i-2cufzhY3RdhgLap2DHHVTd	Madam President, I would like A large part of the problem here is that Anders Ygeman does not understand the difference between hate and threat on the one hand and misinformation on the other. I don't think I can explain this more clearly than I've already done, so I think we'll have to leave that puck for a later time. I note, however, that the Social Democrats have never left a bill to ban misinformation and turn it into a crime of freedom of expression. So it is a little strange to put the question to our side when you yourself have never taken that step. I am not sure that this is appropriate at all, for quite different reasons. Another interesting question in this is what the police are doing about the potential freedom of expression crimes that are flourishing online. To be fair, it can be said that these are people who have had their children cared for and that it is completely human that feelings overwhelm a little. I think we can all understand that. However, this is not normally taken into account in freedom of expression crimes. I thought I'd take some examples of things I've read. They have no religion and no feelings – may Gud avenge them. It could be incitement to ethnic groups. The country of the pigs. It could be incitement to ethnic groups. Someone writes that people are going to burn social services offices today or tomorrow It may not be quite clear, but it may perhaps be seen as a call for a terrorist offence. If Gud wills, Sweden will be attacked and Gud will avenge them. Perhaps a call for a terrorist offence? In a thread about Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren, someone writes – and I am sorry that I have to bring this up in the Chamber because it is quite brutal – that they should ask Gud to kidnap this minister and put her with a bachelor. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I think Anders Ygeman is mature enough to understand what this person is saying. It's extremely unpleasant. So, as far as I know, no person involved in this campaign has ever been prosecuted or convicted of any violation of freedom of expression. It is very strange given that there is a special mission for the police to prosecute crimes committed on the Internet. There seems to be no interest in this. Why is that?
i-38nMkAWuWnaNRYqYKwQ5SQ	Madam President, I would like I was a little perplexed here at the end, because it sounded like Ludvig Aspling thinks the police are doing too little to hate and threats online. If so, it is an insight I welcome. It is strange, however, because it has already been stated – and agreed – that the Swedish Democrats are the only party that does not want to tighten up European legislation against hate and threats online. The Moderates want to do it, and the Christian Democrats want to do it. Even the Left Party wants to tighten up this legislation and make it more difficult, but not the Swedish Democrats. This could have been a good opportunity to explain, Ludvig Aspling, why, instead, you even want to make it easier for hatred and threats to be spread online by changing European legislation. Should it be assumed that the Swedish Democrats are reconsidering, I welcome it, but I have not seen any such rethinking yet. Just like Moderate Marie-Louise-Louise Hänel Sandström and others, I mean that too little is done against hate and threats online. And that applies regardless of who spreads it, i.e. whether it is right-wing extremists, left-wing extremists or Islamists. All threats and hatred are reprehensible, and all illegal forms of them should be prosecuted. It is a pity that the Swedish Democrats do not share this view.
i-RQQS8XxLnDsgwJ4vNircsS	Madam President, I would like Lotta Olsson has asked me whether I intend to carry out a wide-ranging reform effort in order for women and men to change sectors in order to meet the goal of increased female entrepreneurship. The business policy objective is to strengthen Swedish competitiveness and create the conditions for more jobs and growing companies. To achieve this, enterprise policy works to promote business renewal and to increase the diversity of businesses and entrepreneurs in terms of gender, among other things. Women's opportunities to be entrepreneurs, the ability to engage in entrepreneurship on equal and equal terms and equality in business are obvious components of a feminist government. These are also important elements for achieving the interim objective of economic equality, which is a priority for the government. It is therefore gratifying that data from Statistics Sweden shows that women's entrepreneurship has increased over time. In order to create a more level playing field for women to start and run businesses, a number of measures have been implemented. The government has reduced the minimum permitted share capital in private limited liability companies from SEK 50 000 to SEK 25 000. Since the reduction will primarily promote entrepreneurs in the service sector whose activities have low capital needs and are often driven by women, the proposal is supposed to contribute to increasing the proportion of women among entrepreneurs. The Government has also commissioned the Gender Equality Agency to carry out an analysis of the gender-segregated labour market in welfare professions and to develop proposals to counteract gender-based study and professional choices, thereby creating a broader recruitment base for welfare. The assignment will be presented in April 2023. As vocational choices largely follow the choice of education, some measures have also been implemented in the field of education and training in order to break the gender-segregated labour market. The Government has decided on formulations on gender equality in the curricula for upper secondary school and the curriculum for adult education. They include the school's responsibility for visibility and counteracting gender patterns that limit students' learning, choices and development. The entire government works with gender mainstreaming, which means that a gender perspective should permeate all policy areas. It is a work carried out continuously by e.g. The Swedish Work for Innovation Systems, Vinnova, and Almi Företagspartner AB. A further example is that the Swedish Agency for Growth has a reporting requirement in the regulation letter for 2022 to report how the agency works to integrate a diversity perspective – including in relation to women – in its efforts, and has a mission to develop the regional company support and project activities related to gender equality, integration and the environment, including climate.
i-GK7ahFdRFAKgQfkcScKjmr	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking the Minister for his reply, but I do not really think that this is an answer. In fact, the answer to the question of whether women and men should change the industry is yes, because if most women are active in health care, education and care and much of the services sector, it does not help them to put a large wet blanket in the form of business bans on those industries. Instead, these women must become masons or carpenters, do infrastructure work or have construction firms to create their own business. I may also think it is the right presumptuous to lower the share capital level, because that means that women should have companies that do not have the same profitability or the same turnover. Thus, I do not understand how the government should fulfil its ambition that women should have companies in the same way as men. How is that supposed to work without us switching business with each other? It would be better for me to become an IT engineer than to work with a private health centre or be a physiotherapist with my own business, because that's where the jobs are – and that's where it's nice to be an entrepreneur. I think that the government has as a mantra that healthcare, school and care companies are something ugly: you earn tax money that you do business with, and you make terrible profits. However, if I build a hospital or produce first aid materials or school books, it's okay, and then it's nice to be an entrepreneur. I do not see anything in the Minister's thinking in this answer to the Minister's understanding of the question, Madam President. Somehow it's the same old boy community that's going to, and then we can buy ourselves a construction machine, and then it's okay. I'm sorry, Minister, but I don't think you're going to succeed in getting more female entrepreneurs. In my municipality of Örebro, which is governed by social democracy, as well as the region and at national level, we have 15.4 percent women who are entrepreneurs. Most of them have service jobs. I don't think everyone wants to be hairdressers, do nails or give other services, but I think there are other professions as well. That is why this does not rhyme at all. This is not how things look abroad. In many European countries, this is in a completely different way. There is another system in the health care system where you have insurance systems – I will not go into that debate – where you measure quality and get paid for work done. You don't have to be a public employee just so that you might not be able to get a profit because you've run faster or been more effective. No, Minister, think of another turn! This is not an approach that will give us more women entrepreneurs.
i-Epxb7kMfSaVtbSgBsPNqoC	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Olsson, for a very important question, and thank you, Minister, for the answer! It is gratifying that women's entrepreneurship is increasing, although it feels like it takes a long time. We hope that women's entrepreneurship will increase as the minimum permitted share capital is now reduced from SEK 50 000 to SEK 25 000, as the Government puts forward in its response. I listen to the Government's response that the Gender Equality Agency has been tasked with carrying out an analysis of the gender-segregated labour market in the welfare professions and that they will produce proposals to combat gender-based study and career choices. Should it discourage gender-based study and career choices? Isn't everyone going to the profession that everyone wants? Presenting a broad palette of professions and telling me what opportunities these professions can offer to me as an employee, what I can get out of my working life and what I can give to those I am going to work with is important. These contacts with different professions should come in early, both in preschool and school, I think. What will happen to what Lotta Olsson was into, i.e. the public sector in the future? Who will work there, and will there be opportunities to be an entrepreneur because you are a good principal, teacher or care worker? Can a school be run that enables young people to get good grades and get on with their lives? Great opportunities have been given in this country. The Government says that the feminist government wants to give women opportunities to be entrepreneurs and pursue entrepreneurship on equal, equal terms. Equality in business is for the government self-evident components, they say. For me, this means that all sectors are open, and it is natural to be able to practice entrepreneurship in the sector where you have trained – there is the threshold at its lowest – and women are in the public sector regardless of whether we want it or not. That is where they mainly have their jobs. Someone may have developed a tool, and someone may think that you can operate in a different way that provides opportunities for older people, young people and also for children in LSS homes. There have been amazing results of such efforts. As women are present in the public sector, I would also like to ask whether it is the government's intention to go to the private sector and look for a job there and educate itself in order to become entrepreneurs. The women who run businesses and have done this in our country in the public sector have fought and started businesses, and they have a drive, a calling and a commitment. They want to take advantage of what they have seen is to develop but like the businesses where they have been employed may have stopped, slowed down and prevented. I have met women who have started and run health centres with short decision-making paths, close employees and good treatment. They have wanted to do this their way. Even in elderly care, I have met women who have started one and then several different companies in the same area with a concept that has made the users very happy and where the women who started the companies have the opportunity to do what they thought the business would be for.
i-3BRFaCEBxnRxbjcZjJrFYG	Madam President, I would like This is a question that I myself have been very committed to throughout my entire career, really, i.e. how to get men and women to choose more equally in life. Of course, much of people's choices are linked to our traditional gender roles. For example, I have previously investigated parental insurance for the government at the beginning of the 00s, and it was very clear that, although we live in the 21st century, women are still considered to be primarily responsible for family and children, and this in turn makes employers see women as a greater risk than men in the labour market. It is evident from the statistics that men and women with the same education go out of university and higher education in their 23 to 24 years of age and start with the same type of occupation, but in their 30s something very strange happens. Then women begin to slip behind, and men get management positions and much higher wages. The only thing that has happened then is that we know that the risk of women staying at home further from the labour market between the ages of 30 and 45 is higher than it is for men. The same thing I think happens when we choose high school. It is a decision that is very much determined by a discussion at home within the family, and ultimately it is a decision that essentially determines one's future choice. Many researchers also point out that it is absolutely the worst time in life to make a decision about career choices when you are right at the beginning of puberty and it is important for other reasons that you appear to be a good man or a good woman. This often makes the decision that women choose an education that has more to do with care and people, and men choose education related to economics and technology – although women in high school do much better in those subjects than men are ever near. Madam President, I would like I hope and believe that we will be able to break this pattern for the future. We are working intensively on it in the Government Office. I have given an answer here, and you know that we are doing a lot alongside this too. Perhaps the most important job is also to show role models and that things can be done differently. One of the things that the government has worked with a lot over the past ten years is to increase gender equality in the companies that the government itself is in charge of. It is, as everyone knows, 45 companies in the government portfolio. There, after some hard work, we have now managed to achieve that 50% of the chairmen we appoint are women and, in fact, 51% of the executive directors. It will not be enough by a long way, but it will show private business that things can be done differently. The fact that last year the companies delivered the largest surplus ever to the government budget, EUR 49.7 billion, does not make it any worse. It is also very effective and very good for companies to be mixed. When it comes to women's entrepreneurship, I myself come from a family where my mother was a hairdresser and had the company at home, so I am well aware of the problems that arise around many women's entrepreneurship. We had to have extra domestic help ourselves so that my mother could cope with the duplication of work that it meant being a hairdresser and caring for the family. Fortunately, I had a father who stepped in and took the main responsibility when I was a kid. When it comes to getting people to change their business or to change professional careers, I think we are quite in agreement, but the way forward must be through the fact that we are doing gender equality work through authorities and through decisions in the Swedish Parliament. I see nothing to suggest that we should not continue with that work.
i-LtWxutRG4aWpXXXM5j1dNk	Madam President, I would like I can do many of the moves the Minister is making here. The fact that the state companies have improved in terms of gender equality and there are both women and men in the management teams increases profitability, as the Minister says. You can see that you get a more effective organization when you affirm the different parts of the human race, both women and men. But it does not help if I am a good teacher and want to start a school, even if I manage my taxes and have good agreements for those who work with me, if the government does not want private schools or that kind of initiative. And it doesn't help if I'm the best in the world at LSS housing and think the municipal activities in my municipality aren't good enough – even if I could get the money enough and at the same time run the best business – because the government doesn't want that kind of business. It is thought that such activities are ugly, because it is tax money that finances them. Then it is forgotten that a large part of the companies in Sweden are actually financed with tax revenue. This house is not built by municipal corporations. We don't have municipal cleaning companies. We don't go on roads built by municipal companies. That may be good, because I heard how to build roads in Russia, and it was not in the same effective way as in Sweden. I do not understand why it is precisely in health care, school and care that you cannot accept a good business. I'm the first person to sign that it must not be unfulfilled – that you don't have a good business, that you don't take care of your students, that you don't have student health and that you don't care for good quality – but I don't accept this prejudice against all the entrepreneurship in these female industries. I'm probably never gonna be an engineer. It's too late now. But I've had my profession in a completely different profession, and I can't understand why I couldn't be as good an entrepreneur as a man who works in a male industry. Sweden is below the EU average in terms of female entrepreneurship. It is not okay in an equal country that we should have this oppression against entrepreneurship in healthcare, school and care. However, I think that we should be much better at controls and audits and to follow up on doing what we should do. We must also do so in relation to construction companies and anyone who supplies important goods to our public services. In health care, much of the goods used are manufactured in something completely different from municipal and public activities. I ask the Minister, who seems to have an open mind, to reconsider. This is not good business policy. It is possible that it is good socialist policy – the Minister must stand for himself – but it is not good business policy to put the lid on too many kinds of very good activities with many good initiatives that could come forward and that we could all benefit from, especially all those who need health care, school and care.
i-VnqrkvMbzM299n98h3zhse	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for your second speech. I also have a mother who has worked full time, she was born 1933, so she was early out. But they are not many, unfortunately, and they have faced difficult problems along the way, but it has worked. I think we all agree here that this mix of people in a company creates dynamism. Having said that, I would like to take two examples. In 1998, Kristina Wadström started a midwife's clinic. One of the things she did was to start receiving people in the evening so that they could go and have their examination after work. It led to a outcry. You'd think this was a very long time ago in our history, but that's not the case. The thoughts take me to the drama series Miss Friman's war, where it's about making progress in society. But here we are talking about a business that started in 1998. I feel like we've stopped in time. That must not be the case. It is a very good business that she has developed and been an engine for. My second example concerns a woman who has a child in the LSS business herself. She saw that you could do this in a different way, and she has found another model. It's about the children owning their own housing. They buy a place and have a bag of money with them, and then you hire people there. It has created continuity and a family feeling in another way that cherishes these people. A family that has their child there has told us that they had to make plans annually, i.e. once a year they submitted information on when to leave the child and so on, but that there is now flexibility. Needs can be seen from one week to the next and solved for these youths. Such accommodation is located in Jämtland, one is located in Kalmar and one is located in Helsingborg. It's a fantastic business. I also see an open mind. Let us bear these good points in mind when we talk about entrepreneurship.
i-FyZd1YrosAm82cY6o6AfT	Madam President, I would like I'll start with Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson. I felt like I missed you a little bit in the last line-up. I wonder if some of this debate might be based on a misunderstanding. It feels a bit like that. The Social Democrats are not opposed to improving parts of the public sector even in private. Of course, we should encourage those who want opening hours in the evenings and nights to make it easier for ordinary families. I have for many years as LO Chairman driven us to have evening and night open preschools, so that mothers and fathers can work longer in industry and other activities, which are often conducted as 24:7 in Sweden. Then they must be able to work on awkward working hours. Moreover, this is an incredibly important equality effort. Skellefteå Municipality introduced such an opportunity for women and men to leave their children also in the evenings. Many women could then take a later evening shift, often at an ICA Maxi store with quite high wages on uncomfortable working hours. They could then increase their salary and make sure that the family's income grew, and the kids actually had a very safe upbringing with good staff even at the time when they would otherwise have been alone at home in a gap between Dad's and Mom's working hours. There is nothing in government policy that is opposed to such a development. I also suspect that the interpellete Lotta Olsson is pulling all things over. One problem with private operations within LSS, health care, preschool and school is that there has been extensive cheating. As a result, a lot of tax money has not been spent in the sectors for which it was intended. There are appalling examples of vocational training, for example, where there have been theoretical techniques and the theoretical learning of a profession. There, the purpose of the whole thing has been simply to get the tax money – not to carry out an activity that had no costs. It is in order to curb an abuse that the government has taken these initiatives, which we call democratic control over welfare. Municipalities and regions should be involved in controlling what opens up, but the intention is not that there should be no private alternatives. Of course, it has enriched welfare that there is a plethora of both cooperative and private companies alongside public activities. But at the same time, as I said, one should not turn a blind eye to the problems that have been. Everyone knows today that there have been some cases where LSS homes have been associated with gang crime and rather serious crime. A lot of tax money has been wasted in this type of company. If we are only able to examine and ensure that tax money goes where it should go, there is no government that thinks that we should not carry out this activity in the future as well. This will also make the original question clearer, Madam President. It is not the case that the attempts now being made to take democratic control of welfare are to be seen as a way of interrupting all options. There must be alternatives. Alternatives develop the business. But, of course, the tax money we pay to school should go to school and not to anything else. It also provides better welfare for people.
i-3UGCDp2AT7BxzzaCU43cUH	Madam President, I would like We are talking about profits in welfare. But there are profits in the construction companies too. It is not really the profits that I perceive the Minister to be angry at, but it is cheating or when you do not do your job or pay your taxes. But why doesn't the Minister say so? Say, "Get rid of cheating in welfare!" Or say: Away with cheating in the construction companies hired by the state and the municipality! It's the state that owns all the roads. I've never heard the government inciting asphalt companies who might have salted the invoices – I don't know. But this is a clear signal that the government is hostile to female entrepreneurship. Because it's the women who work here. I don't understand why they should reduce their skills. If someone has broad competence as a midwife, physiotherapist or whatever it may be, they should use that entire competence. They're not gonna do anything less. This was clarification. I hope that this profit in welfare will not be something that we will hear all spring, Madam President. It is quite oppressive against women and female entrepreneurship. I do not want to say that Örebro, from which I come, is a forerunner in terms of quality in terms of either municipal care or anything else. And there 15.4 per cent of businesses are run by women. I'm sorry, Minister, but that's the reality.
i-FrhjLP5PbWyJRkoCvryhVk	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Olsson, for a clarification discussion! If we all listen to each other, we can obviously learn a lot from each other in this House too. I think you have a good point in saying that we should criticise the offshoots more than the corporate form. I'm sure that's an important point. It is no secret that in recent years we have seen appalling reports of widespread cheating. It is clear that there is a great deal in the eyes when it comes to cheating in the welfare industry. When it comes to care for the elderly that doesn't work well and that the old people get sex sores, it feels incredibly serious. It is the very cheating that the government refers to when we talk about control over welfare. But it should not be about over-establishments in just one residential area, but welfare should also be there where you do not automatically establish your health centre or preschool. There should be a spread, so that the welfare benefits everyone. It is also part of democratic control over welfare. I promise I'll do what I can to get us a serious discussion. If we agree that we should take democratic control of welfare and reduce cheating, perhaps we can make the debate on this even better in the future.
i-QMJP2KSffYkZSCrFmWdxDK	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Alexander Christiansson, for the question of what I intend to do to simplify the bureaucracy and regulations for Sweden's entrepreneurs. The overall goal of industrial policy is to strengthen Swedish competitiveness and create the conditions for more jobs in more and growing companies. Economic policy is an important part of this work. On 21 September 2021, the Government submitted the letter "A simplification policy for strengthening competitiveness, growth and innovation"(p. 2021/ 22:3) to the Riksdag. Through this, the Government decided on simplification policy objectives, which have created the conditions for concrete simplification work in the future. The letter also announced a number of tasks that the government is considering submitting to the appropriate authorities in order to create concrete simplifications, such as shorter processing times. These missions are now being prepared within the Government Office. On 30 June 2021, the study on the simplification of the regulatory framework for micro-enterprises and a more modern accounting law submitted its report Simplifications for micro-enterprises and modernisation of the Accounting Act (SOU 2021:60). The study presents a number of proposals for concrete simplifications and modernisation of the regulatory framework for micro-enterprises, including the abolition of the hotel permit, defined simplifications regarding the possibility of replacing or amending existing small buildings in coastal protected areas, simplification of the rules on driving and rest periods and significant modernisation of the Accounting Act. The report was finalised on 24 January 2022 and the proposals are now being prepared within the Government Office. Madam President, I would like Modern and efficient licensing processes are an important issue for the government, which is working intensively on this in order to promote environmentally and climately appropriate investments. In the field of environmental testing, the Government has therefore appointed the Environmental Assessment Report (M 2020:06) with the mandate to propose measures to achieve a more modern and effective environmental review. The report shall be submitted by 31 May 2022 at the latest. The County Administrative Board's regulation letter for 2022 contains reporting requirements for reporting on measures taken to facilitate compliance by companies with applicable regulations and the Authority's interpretation of these with a focus on measures related to service, treatment and licensing. The Government is continuously considering how regulations and administrative procedures may need to be updated and possibly simplified.
i-PfnENuWCsPU7qYCdkrU2Kx	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. The regulatory burden on small businesses is a recurring issue in this House. Why is that question so incredibly important? What makes the question deserve so much discussion? For me and the Swedish Democrats, small businesses are extremely important, not least for our welfare but also for our society as a whole. It is also an issue that small businesses themselves raise when they are visited. Small businesses are important, not least for job creation. Four out of five jobs are created by SMEs. They are also important for our growth. In 190 of our municipalities, the largest tax revenue comes from small businesses. Innovations, inventions and new ideas often start in small businesses. It is therefore important to create good conditions for our small businesses. The fact that we have a relatively good business climate in Sweden is absolutely true, especially in comparison with other comparable countries. However, it is important to try to look into the future, try to predict and put your ear to the ground to listen to the problems that arise and look ahead. If we do not, we will end up in a situation where small businesses are making it increasingly tough to survive. There are huge numbers of issues that are just beginning to grow, not least crime and increased insecurity. I sent an interpellation to the minister on that particular subject. But I was told that Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson will answer it. I still think it is a matter of business policy, because it is not the details of crime that I am looking for, but more impact on our business community as a whole. However, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to take that debate with Morgan Johansson when that day comes. Other problems faced by small businesses today have to do with the energy crisis, such as fuel prices. But it is also about the supply of skills and long-term unemployment, while there are actually quite simple jobs in the Swedish labour market. I could line up many examples. It is important for me to give this background. I sometimes feel that many people do not understand what a small business is or the value of small businesses for our country. This interpellation, which is about the rule issue, I have made because that problem is growing and growing. The cost burden for small businesses increases by 1 billion annually, according to the Swedish Agency for Growth. Ten hours a week, a small businessman spends on average on administration. It hampers much of the growth that we would actually need to see. In its reply, the Minister refers to the Government's work on simplification policy for strengthening competitiveness, growth and innovation, and to simplification for micro-enterprises and modernisation of the Accounting Act. The simplification journey of the former Minister of Economic Affairs, Baylan, was also something that we welcomed. There was a lot in those things that was good. The criticism that we have put forward with many organisations, but also with entrepreneurs themselves, is that the proposals come far too late and that it is inadequate. That is precisely why I think it is important that we raise this issue today. It may be that we sometimes have a slightly different view of entrepreneurship. But the signal sent out is that the government does not understand the problem. The opposition must constantly lead the way. In the reply, the Minister also writes that the government is constantly considering how regulations and administrative procedures may need to be updated and possibly simplified. And it is perhaps the word that makes me a little bit of a question, because that is precisely what business itself points out, that we must now have more simplifications in place. Can the Minister give a concrete answer to what he means by that part of the answer?
i-9p4bB67NcVKmNY4Mp7NLYG	Madam President, I would like I thank Alexander Christiansson for a very urgent discussion. Regulatory simplification is, of course, an issue that has been touched on many times in Parliament and by many governments, both leaning left and leaning right, and is one of the difficult issues for a government to deal with and do something about. The reason is that authorities and control bodies are constantly finding new rules for companies and that while a government removes rules and authorities are helped to remove rules, new ones are added by others than those that removed the former. I myself have only experienced such a situation during the short three-month period, Madam President. We have worked hard on the strategy that Alexander Christiansson has just read out the content of. At the same time, we received a new EU directive to ensure that everyone, including small companies, will, from a few years' time, make a sustainability report. Sweden's assessment, and unfortunately only three or four other EU countries, is that it will impose additional burdens on Swedish small companies. We must try to find a more long-term way out of the problem of regulation. In my opinion, much of this is also a question of digitalisation in many of the authorities that require answers from our Swedish small businesses. The Swedish Tax Agency is often highlighted as a positive force in the simplification work. Today, even small businesses are being supported by digitally sending out VAT and other dates so that entrepreneurs have easier access to business. This is the kind of approach that I think other authorities could use to make it easier for small businesses. That is what we are trying to capture in the letter of simplification that we left to Parliament last year. For example, a clear objective is that Swedish companies should not have higher costs as a percentage of GDP for rules. They're supposed to be lower, and they're supposed to be lower than in the outside world. We are making these objectives clear in the sense that they should guide the authorities to set up their work in such a way that there will be less and less regulation in the future. At the same time – it must nevertheless be said, Madam President – rules are, of course, necessary. We must never forget that many of the rules that we set up for companies are in order to be able to check that the companies do not work with, for example, extensive cheating. Unfortunately, we have also seen clear examples in recent years that when we are without rules or very generous without rules, bluf companies, in this case welfare companies, are suitable for using short-term support with several billion SEK. This is not an easy balance, because the rules have a purpose, and we must never remove the aim of simplification. But I do not think we disagree with Alexander Christiansson on the long-term approach. There's gonna be fewer rules. It will be easier to be an entrepreneur, and I believe that digitalisation in the public authorities is the key to achieving simplification. The Swedish Tax Agency should become a model for how other authorities can become a service for small companies instead of being seen as an obstacle.
i-6G2XKuLNYT3Pa6muoQ56VF	Madam President, I would like Of course, I share the view that rules must also be in a free market, because otherwise things can go a little bit. That, of course, is the case. However, it is precisely the over-implementing of EU legislation, which sometimes enters the Swedish market, that is causing a great deal of trouble. There is a lot to do from the Swedish side precisely when it comes to what is called gold plating. There I can sometimes experience that the government has had a desire to over-implement instead of looking after the best interests of the country and the Swedish business community. There is something I can send with the Minister to start thinking about a little bit. For a number of years, I and the Swedish Democrats have been stressing a concept for systematising regulatory simplification. What we also share with the member organisations is the need for process control and a long-term system to overcome rules that do not contribute so much in the end. We believe that the business partners should be clearly involved in contributing to the agenda. Such systematic work should be based on the following three steps, and I will read them to the Minister briefly: These three steps, we believe, had systematised the regulatory simplification work considerably. However, in addition to that, we believe that the Swedish Rule Council should be an independent body with placement under the Swedish Council of State and not, as it is today, under the Swedish Agency for Growth. It gives the Council greater weight and influence with the possibility to influence as early as possible in the process of developing new rules. The Council is also given the opportunity to attract employees with high competence, including in the Government Office. Otherwise, I think the problem is that, as I and many people with me feel that the government has done, they are poking at work and making short-term efforts. We need a long-term approach, because otherwise it will be a little too late and a little too little, as is said in the criticism that is being addressed. We need to improve the process of monitoring developments. If the Minister does not think that the order that we are proposing is the way forward, but has another proposal, we are, of course, open to listening to it. But the bottom line is that we need a long-term perspective. In the reply, the Minister also says: ..................................................... That's good. But it is the same there, that a more in-depth and structured work is needed to tackle the changes in the long term. What happens if the business community loses faith in the social contract? That is what I experience when I talk to many entrepreneurs today. Does the Minister see the long-term problems with this?
i-AkTVyncAh6WgDMLe3f8sUG	Madam President, I would like Of course we see the problems. That is why we sent a letter to Parliament last year presenting new objectives for simplification work. That is why we gave the assignments that Alexander Christiansson read out in his speech to the authorities that are most criticised for not helping companies today, but sometimes feels like an obstacle through over-interpretation or that they do not cooperate with companies on rules interpretation. It is clear that the government sees these problems. The letter came to the fore to put pressure on and set new goals for how the simplification work will continue in the future. An important objective that may not be as well known is that the rules and costs of the rules should not increase as a percentage of GDP. This is the only way to measure that the rules are reasonably consistent with the evolution of costs. It is a saving requirement for our authorities to follow the recommendations made by the government. Furthermore, again, we believe very much in digitalisation in our authorities. It is currently going on at the Swedish Agency for Growth. I visited the Swedish Companies Agency in Sundsvall a few weeks ago, which is the authority that entrepreneurs often first come into contact with. They are working intensively today to facilitate the creation of companies and compliance with regulations and, for example, annual reports, which are to be submitted to the Swedish Companies Registration Office to ensure that there is sufficient capital to avoid companies becoming insolvent. They work intensively with digitalisation, so that you can get answers to all your questions. They will hopefully also be a support in how to make sure you do the right thing. I mention again the IRS as a good example. It is today very popular among companies. It has left to have only the audit role. Of course, it brings in tax money as before, Madam President. But it also provides support for companies to be able to do the right thing. It's very popular. If we can introduce such an approach to all our authorities dealing with companies, I am convinced that we will have it easier in the future. I don't think we disagree on the matter. But we may have a slightly different strategy to get there.
i-NJRLFem9RVTkm1SqAnroz4	Madam President, I would like Once again, I thank the Minister for his reply. As Minister N says in his written reply and as highlighted here too, it sounds very good. I will try to go from being critical to being a little cautiously optimistic in that work. However, I share the criticism of the member organisations that it is not a thorough and long-term enough work. There are still a lot of things missing from industry itself. I believe that our model had received the regulatory simplification work continuously and consistently in the work we do here in Parliament. This would have led to a much faster and profound result. Let's see how it goes. Let's let the future decide that. We may share, as the Minister says, the ambition. When I discuss with the Minister's party friends, I sometimes hear that as a Swedish Democrat I may have a different view of the role of small businesses in society. We have put a great deal of focus on the value of small businesses for job creation, for example. I know that the Minister also believes that it is job creation in small businesses. But we have labour market policies that cost society enormous money. This applies, for example, to subsidised employment. I believe that many times it is totally pointless. There will be so little result from the money you bet. Instead, that money could have been spent on simplifying and making it cheaper to hire and to simplify for small businesses so that we have more, strong and growing companies. I think we would have made a lot of money out of that.
i-Tnte3y8i1JTBVna9FzR3Ey	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Alexander Christiansson, for your renewed question! I am not completely ignorant of what it is like to live in a small business family. I grew up in one myself. My mother was a small business man and a women's hairdresser in Kosta. I can't tell that she was a hairdresser, and I don't think it can be taken as if she was a failure in her career. I clearly saw at close range the concern it creates for small businesses to live up to the regulatory burden. They were helped by many other knowledgeable people in their surroundings, for example, to pass a rather extensive declaration at the time. It took a lot of effort and trouble before you got into it for a small company. Today, too, I know that many small businesses think that there are too many rules for operating companies in Sweden. At the same time, small companies also like predictability and transparency as with the Swedish Companies Registration Office, for example. But a touch of a button we can find out if a company that you want to make a deal with is completely clean and pays their taxes so that we make fewer mistakes. Also small companies benefit from that we have pretty good control and pretty good regulations. It is important to shape the balance between them so that it is effective and easy to see through for the entrepreneur. Digitisation is here the key, as I have said in previous speeches, to helping and supporting small businesses. They should feel that it is not only someone looking over their shoulder but also that someone is helping them and holding them in their hands in their entrepreneurship.
i-WhqnKhBHnPaouxzpnqbrHY	Madam President, I would like Tobias Andersson has asked me if it is my view that there is a Swedish culture, and how I intend to work to protect it. Tobias Andersson has also asked which other cultures I judge exist in Sweden, and how I work to protect them. As I have recently answered Tobias Andersson to a written question, the basis of the rule of law is to support and promote the culture and cultural heritage that exists in Sweden, the goal set by the Riksdag that culture should be a dynamic, challenging and untying force based on freedom of expression. Alla should have the opportunity to participate in cultural life. K reativity, diversity and artistic quality should shape the development of society. As I have also pointed out before, it is not the task of politics to define the concept of culture. The task of cultural policy is to support artistic creation in various forms, to create the conditions for promoting a living cultural heritage that is preserved, used and developed, to contribute to people throughout the country having the opportunity to take part in a rich and diverse cultural offering and to contribute to more cultural benefits. I have had the joy and honour to have been Minister of Culture for a little over 100 days and every day get to devote myself to art and culture here in Sweden. We are a small country, but with an incredibly strong and multifaceted cultural life, with lots of different expressions. Many Swedish artists, artists and organisations are also very successful in the outside world, not least in music and design, but also in literature, visual arts, performing arts and moving images. Art and culture do not develop in a vacuum, but in meetings between people, and not least in meetings with the outside world. Therefore, it is also important to stimulate international exchanges in different ways, and to see that art and culture also emerge and develop in a changing way. Cultural interaction and cultural exchange have also always played a fundamental role in the development of society. Cultural policy covers all of us who live in Sweden, no matter what language we speak or what stories we carry with us.
i-WGiSrxgv6Ne8BkedgEfF8t	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the reply from the Minister for Culture. During the Riksdag Question Time on Thursday 17 February, the Minister for Culture was asked by the Moderates Kristina Axén Olin whether there is Swedish culture and what it is in such cases. During his time as Minister of Culture, the Minister of Culture may not have always given straight and clear answers to the questions put to her. That was the case in this case as well. The Swedish Minister for Culture's answer was: That's the most important thing for me. There should be culture all over the country for everyone, regardless of background. The Minister also had time to distance himself from hatred and threats and to take a stand for free media. That was definitely an answer. But that was definitely not an answer to the question put to the Minister for Culture. It should not be controversial for the Swedish Minister for Culture to state that there is Swedish culture and at least give a few examples of it. Against this background, I asked the Minister for Culture in a written question, to which the Minister for Culture now refers, if she thinks there is a Swedish culture. In the answer to the written question, too, the Minister was not able to give a clear answer as to whether this was the case. Madam President, I would like It is against this background that I am following up the issue through this interpellation. I believe that the issue can be discussed further. Now I have taken note of the Minister for Culture's answer to my interpellation and can say that the Minister chooses not to answer the question now either. On at least three occasions, the Minister has thus been asked whether she believes that there is a Swedish culture, but she has not yet given an answer in a positive or negative form. I have listened to the Minister's reply and I understand that she does not want to define the concept of culture, as the Minister put it. Nor have I asked the Minister to do this. If we were to try to agree on what is or is not culture, these lines would probably not have been enough. That is why, Madam President, I would like to ask once again whether the Minister for Culture, without defining the concept of culture or negligating any particular culture outside Sweden, cannot admit that Swedish culture exists. It should not be a controversial position, even for a social democrat, to say, yes, I think there is Swedish culture. The Minister of Culture could probably answer that and then give some examples of Swedish culture makers like Astrid Lindgren, Selma Lagerlöf, August Strindberg, Ingmar Bergman etcetera. In this way the Minister would have been able to answer the question but at the same time take the height of criticism from the left by exemplifying what is meant and, without at the same time undermining cultural creators from other parts of the world, admitting that there is a Swedish culture. It should not be difficult to do so, Madam President, and I would therefore like to give the Minister a new opportunity to do so.
i-P44W3BV5NV3CkccFPGG81m	Madam President, I would like Of course, there are traditions in Sweden such as midsummer, herring and potatoes, folk costume, Allsång at Skansen and the crayfish party that many people appreciate as typical Swedish. It is undoubtedly the case that in today's Sweden, just as in all open and free democracies, all culture is formed in an exchange of different influences, which is something that has also happened throughout history. Cultural interaction and cultural exchange have always played a fundamental role in the development of society. People in Sweden throughout history and today have been formed in meetings between cultural impressions from different directions, which means that a person does not belong to one and only one culture. We all belong to several cultures at once. The policy of the Swedish Democrats aims to make us think less freely and less openly, and there everything that is modern and foreign poses a threat. It's a scary policy. As I said earlier, I have had the pleasure of being Minister of Culture for a little over 100 days, and every day I have had to devote myself to art and culture here in Sweden. We are a small country with an incredibly strong and multifaceted cultural life, with lots of different expressions. Many Swedish artists, artists and organisations are very successful in the outside world, not least in music and design, for example. Since Tobias Andersson is asking for some examples of Swedish luck, I will list a small list for Tobias Andersson to show some of them that I think of: author Vilhelm Moberg, actor Evin Ahmad, artist Anders Zorn, filmmaker and director Ingmar Bergman, singer and actor Monica Zetterlund, music Cherrie Cherrie, author Astrid Lindgren, programme director, artist and author Gina Dirawi, dance band Arvingarna, author Suad Ali, artist Carl Larsson, comic artist and artist Liv Strömquis t, pop group Abba and actor Alexander Abdallah. Other typical Swedish phenomena are the Dalahorse, red cabins with white knots, crisp bread, democracy, social welfare, alleman rights, coffee, kebab pizza, Zlatan and Melodifestivalen. I hope that in this way I have been able to clarify to Tobias Andersson what is culture in Sweden.
i-VzabtJVawxc8fDr35HBnVF	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister of Culture. I think we're doing a bit of a linguistic test at the moment. I have asked a question about whether the Minister for Culture can admit that there is Swedish culture, and then the Minister for Culture answers that there is culture in Sweden. In my view, Madam President, it is not exactly the same. It is clear that there are different cultural expressions in Sweden, and the Minister for Culture has explained a number of them. But it's not quite the same thing as admitting that there is a distinctive Swedish culture. Then, of course, it may have been shaped over time and continue to be shaped in the future. I do not think any of us are denying this. What the Minister of Culture does is try to answer the question a little without actually taking a position on its nature, i.e. whether there is a Swedish culture. There are culture and traditions here, answers the Minister for Culture, but so far she has not answered yes or no to the question if she admits that there is a Swedish culture, although she gives examples of traditions and cultures within Sweden's framework. But perhaps this is how far we are going, Madam President, and in that case I am glad that at least we got that far, after the repeated questions put to the Minister for Culture on this subject. I find it remarkable that the Minister for Culture says that it is frightening that the Swedish Democrats have the cultural policy that we have, that is, that we see a Swedish culture that is worthy of preserving and affirming. The fact that this in itself, in other words our ambition for prudent progress and fundamental conservative values that want to safeguard what has been built up by previous generations, is frightening for the Minister for Culture is, in fact, remarkable, Madam President. But we can drop this with different culture makers. Culture is much more than that. The Minister of Culture mentioned traditions. We can talk about norms and values, where many are incredibly distinctive Swedish, Scandinavian or Nordic. It is our way of being, the word just enough, the attitude towards queue systems and trust in authorities, which is often described as Nordic gold, etcetera. I think it's much easier to decide whether there are Swedish values and a Swedish culture if you put it in relation to cultural expressions in other parts of the world. There is often a debate in Sweden about whether one culture is worth more than anyone else. As a Swedish democrat, I think it is obvious that the culture and values that we have in Sweden are significantly better than those that characterise societies in other parts of the world. You can talk about cultural expressions that by definition are not part of Swedish culture. It may sometimes be necessary to point out something that is not part of something to describe the part that you want to be. There is the oppression of honour, the view of women, homosexuality and genital mutilation, trust in authorities and the judiciary, etc. All these values, attitudes and norms are incredibly problematic in other cultures, while the Swedish, at least historically, has been an example. We may have to realise that we are not getting any further on the yes-or-no issue in relation to Swedish culture, but I would like to ask: Does the Minister of Culture think that Swedish culture and the values within it are above the values found in some other cultures?
i-AFRqNf4YuuJ7J69QE1Dp4K	Madam President, I would like I note that Tobias Andersson deals with matters that do not concern the issue that we are discussing, that is, culture in Sweden. I hope that through the list I presented to Tobias Andersson I could show very clearly what culture is in Sweden. It is not the task of politics, I would like to emphasise once again, to define the concept of culture. Culture is not static, but it is formed in an exchange of different influences and impressions. This and the previous government have made historical investments in culture. I am proud to be Minister of Culture in a government that values the cultural area highly. In the budget proposal for 2022, the Government invested SEK 940 million on the re-launch of culture and SEK 100 million per year on production incentives for film. We invested SEK 75 million in strengthened libraries to increase the supply and accessibility of library activities throughout the country and SEK 10 million annually to the National Heritage Office during the years 2022 – 2024 to meet an extensive need for support for the care and development of cultural environments across the country. We invested 20 million in the digitisation of cultural heritage and made an increased contribution for Skansen and the central museums that are foundations. These are some of the things the government has invested in when it comes to culture in Sweden. The reason I list them is that I want to show the breadth of what is culture in Sweden. It's production incentives for movies, it's libraries, it's museums and so on, and so on. I hope that Tobias Andersson now has a clearer picture of how we view culture in Sweden.
i-Rx7EpRf2bx86B64t5WnzzB	Madam President, I would like The debate on culture and the concepts of culture are, of course, very broad. In this case, Madam President, I have noted that I do not believe that I am going any further in the debate in seeking the answer to whether Swedish culture exists or not. I will not receive a yes or no answer from the Minister of Culture. The debate has taken some time, because instead the Minister for Culture chooses to talk widely about the efforts the government has made and the ambitions it has for cultural policy, although the interpellation debate could actually have been over after what five seconds if the Minister for Culture had answered yes or no to the question asked. So we are not getting all the way there, but in my previous speech I asked a question about what the answer will be if we are forced to value cultures. And that should be done, because Sweden has had migration from other cultures that have come to influence Swedish culture. We have seen cultural expressions that have been deeply destructive to our society. They have come from cultures where values and norms are destructive, not least for the female sex. Then these have come to Sweden and established themselves. As a consequence, party colleagues to the Minister for Culture and others have not dared to say that there is a Swedish culture and that it is worth preserving and has not dared to tell those who have come to Sweden that they should strive to become part of Swedish culture and the majority society that exists here, these cultural expressions have been allowed to grow. There are areas in Sweden where they have a firm grip, which is incredibly destructive for those who live and work in these environments. I therefore asked a question in my previous speech. If we can agree that there are certain values that are traditionally stereotypical Swedish, we can also agree that there are other values that are definitely not traditional typically Swedish and that should not be given more space in our society either. And in such cases: Is Swedish culture and our values worth more than these?
i-HLNh4W8CYmUZfikXPhQk4i	Madam President, I would like My firm conviction is that culture should be free, unbound and constantly evolving. It is not for me as Minister of Culture, nor for Members of Parliament to define what is culture. Open democratic society is based on the exchange of ideas and influences between people and across borders. Cultural interaction and cultural exchange have also always played a fundamental role in the development of society. As Minister of Culture, I will work for a cultural policy that is relevant to everyone, regardless of their background and origin. On the basis of national cultural policy objectives, I see it as my task and that of the government to ensure that culture is shared more throughout the country and to support artistic creation and a living cultural heritage that is preserved, used and developed in various ways. My firm starting point will always be that culture should be a dynamic, challenging and untying force based on freedom of expression.
