i-VuS4KQAvfGgshNDXMH5v5e	Madam President, I would like The European Council met Thursday to Friday last week for an informal meeting in Versailles outside Paris. The starting point for the discussion was the increasingly uncertain geopolitical situation in Ukraine and the area around after Russia's attacks. Three dimensions formed the basis for the discussion: strengthening the defence capacity of our countries, reducing energy dependence in Europe and building a more stable economic base. Madam President, I would like Russia's totally unacceptable war against Ukraine marked the discussion. Russia is alone and fully responsible for the enormous suffering that Ukraine's people are now experiencing, a suffering that is growing every day. Indefensible attacks on civilians, in hospitals, in preschools. Millions of people forced to flee their homes and lives. The EU countries stand united and firm in their decision to support Ukraine humanitarianly but also militarily and to go further with tough sanctions against Russia. From the Swedish side, we support Ukraine through the European Union but also bilaterally with humanitarian, financial and military support. More will be needed, in the near future but also in the long term. There is broad and strong agreement in the EU community to continue to isolate Russia with sanctions and listings, but also in other ways, for example through international organisations. We agreed at the end of last week to introduce more sanctions, and on Monday the European Union was able to decide on another package of sanctions. We also agreed to strengthen ties and develop the EU-Ukraine partnership. The country's application for EU membership has been submitted to the Commission for further analysis and assessment. There is a strong consensus that Ukraine is part of the European family. Madam President, I would like In order to better protect Europe's citizens in the light of a more uncertain world situation, we see increased defence efforts across Europe – as well in Sweden. We decided at the meeting to equip our capabilities as well as our cooperation within the EU and with NATO. The letter that I and the Prime Minister of Finland wrote to the President of the European Council, Mr Michel, to remind us of the role of cooperation in the security of the Member States was well received and was also included in the declaration. Several Member States underlined the importance of the Treaty of Lisbon's mutual defence clause as a politically important signal of solidarity that exists between us. At the same time, of course, both the EU and the transatlantic link and other international cooperation are fundamental to security in Europe. Madam President, I would like Recent developments force many countries to review and reconsider their dependence on Russia for their energy supply. At the meeting, we agreed to reduce dependence on gas, oil and coal from Russia as soon as possible. This is something that we from the Swedish side have been pushing. To do this, we need to implement the green transition as quickly as possible in order to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels. The arguments for this change have become even stronger. It's not just about the climate – and it's not just like that – but also about a safety policy assessment. We also need to work on diversifying Europe's energy supply and becoming more energy efficient. Madam President, I would like We also discussed the EU economy and competitiveness. Here we will need to invest a lot in our security and defence in the coming years, but we also need to invest in order to implement the green transition. Here it is important to emphasise that much of the green transition will take place, and also takes place, with private investment. We see this not least in Sweden right now. However, it may also be the case that public funds need to be spent in start-up phases or in order to create good framework conditions. In addition, we need to invest a great deal of resources in defence. However, I stressed that no new joint loans were needed. On the contrary, we need order in our economies. We see that it is a vulnerability in Europe that too many countries have very high public debt. Finally, Madam President, Sweden's line is solid. We will continue to provide support to Ukraine, work for sanctions against Russia and strengthen Sweden and the EU.
i-F6oDirJFhP635JFwVcusBz	Madam President, I would like Prime Minister! I think I can say that the whole House is behind the Prime Minister when she says that it is indefensible attacks against the Ukrainian people that Russia is carrying out. Moreover, I can speak on behalf of my own party at least when I say that we share the view of Ukraine as part of the European family. I still want to raise two questions. Firstly, we are now talking about all the measures to be taken for Ukraine. One of the clearest appeals from Ukrainian representatives is that they need more support also militarily. I would like to ask whether it was the subject of discussion to re-use the European Peace Facility to provide Ukraine with weapons and whether the Swedish Government is considering doing so also bilaterally, as the Prime Minister mentioned. After all, we have managed to get together in this House with a compact majority behind the first package, which contained, among other things, 5 000 armour shots. Can we think of any more packages, Prime Minister? Secondly, Madam President, the Prime Minister refers to the letter that Sweden and Finland have written to the other EU countries on Article 42(7). I wonder if the Prime Minister would like to develop a little bit about the response. What we are now seeing in Ukraine is that there will be no soldiers from other countries on the ground. The appeal is to close the sky against the type of missiles that now hits the BB, kindergartens, preschools and schools, homes and homes. I wonder whether it is the Prime Minister's interpretation that, in the event of an attack on a European country, 42.7 would mean that soldiers would come on the ground and that a flight ban could be maintained to protect the civilian population in the event of an armed attack.
i-86FKYG49uwUuxV99g1AYKB	Madam President, I would like Will there be more packages of military support to Ukraine? My assessment is that the answer to that question is yes, unless President Putin finally comes to his senses and ceases the insufferable invasion of Ukraine by international law. We from the Swedish side have pushed for a great deal of support through the European Peace Facility. From the Swedish side, we also see great reason to be able to make further refills in the European Peace Facility. In addition, I have already made it clear that we are open to further support for Ukraine, both humanitarian, financial and military, even with additional weapons. So the answer to the question is a clear yes – that is something we are open to. This is also something I discussed with my Heads of State and Government when I met them in London yesterday and Monday – what further military support can be given to Ukraine. This is, of course, extremely important in order to continue to combat the Russian military invasion. Before the meeting, I and my Finnish colleague wrote a letter reminding us of this clause. The fact that it was then included in the declaration is, of course, a clear indication that it is a defence clause which the other countries would also like to recall in this situation. It is clear that this is important. The fact that other countries would not be passive in an armed attack on an EU country is therefore extremely clear.
i-28hSvJT28vJ8nSFcrkNKnF	Madam President, I would like Let me just encourage the Prime Minister to use the peace facility in the European family, but also to continue bilaterally on the Swedish side with military support, including arms, to Ukraine. With regard to the discussions on Article 42(7), I think it is very important to clarify whether it really means a defence clause, and then it is good if the Prime Minister wants to develop how this relates to alliance freedom. If it is to be defence for real, it must not be as in Ukraine now, that is to say that no other country's soldiers come on the ground and that no other country can contribute to a ban on flying when it rains death from the sky. I have a question. There is a difference between NATO membership and European Article 42(7). Is it the Prime Minister's view that this is a proper defence clause which would also mean soldiers on the ground and that a ban on flying can be maintained with the help of other EU countries?
i-733vSJsL7eHtL84YXWeE1U	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Wallmark, for the question. The fact that we wrote this letter and that it was then also included in the declaration shows, together with the conversation that took place in Versailles, a very clear position from other European countries: there is support for solidarity between all the Member States of the European Union. I have also made it clear that, of course, we do not rule out sending aid if another EU country was attacked. A similar attitude exists with other EU leaders. The exact amount of aid involved depends, of course, on what the situation would be. But not being passive in such a situation is beyond reasonable doubt.
i-9Nk7WNg1fabwz6P6UuGZYD	Madam President, I would like It is positive that the House is united behind the condemnation of the indefensible attack on Ukraine. We can also support the clear position of the government and the Council for Ukraine in this situation. The ingenuity that is being shown when it comes to new sanctions against Russia and the use of the peace facility, which we from the Swedish Democrats have been calling for for for a long time, is positive. It is also positive that a clear plan is now being drawn up to phase out dependence on Russia on oil, coal and gas. Another aspect of security policy concerns products where we also depend on Russia, namely agricultural inputs. How does the Prime Minister view this situation? Does the EU do enough here? How does Sweden see that, in the short and long term, we can make ourselves more independent from Russia when it comes to agricultural inputs, which are crucial for us to be able to produce food in Europe?
i-Y9n4TAkZ8xHhmAaeNXpTPB	Madam President, I would like One of the things discussed at the meeting was precisely the situation with regard to agriculture. In the conclusions it also came with a clear call to the Commission to consider various options, I think the final word was, in terms of how to deal with the situation of food products and with agriculture in Europe. This issue is therefore high on the agenda, of course also in Sweden, where the Swedish Board of Agriculture is now doing a job to review the vulnerabilities that exist in Swedish agriculture. There is a wide range of goods where we are dependent on Russian imports and where we will need to review our import dependency and look at what other actors may be around the world that can provide us with various inputs. In addition to the opportunities for Europe to carry out efficient agriculture, we have the whole question of the possibility for Ukraine to continue farming even now, in this situation. Ukraine is a very large supplier of food to Europe but also the rest of the world.
i-H8WMomKMy4X5zWZsh7sz3A	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. Another issue under discussion in Europe now – perhaps not specifically at the Council meeting, but it is in the background – is the possibility of re-opening loans at EU level and distributing in the form of grants to Member States. We see that when there is a crisis in Europe, many people want to take advantage of it and discover new ways of financing. On behalf of the Swedish Democrats, we welcome the Prime Minister's clear rejection of these plans. At the same time, however, we can see that the Prime Minister's representative was equally clear before we received the Corona Fund. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: how does the government work to gather support among like-minded people in order to avoid us getting a new loan-funded fund at EU level?
i-CNkGUdpB4YvmKCFuspgQ37	Madam President, I would like To take out joint loans in the EU and then to distribute as grants to individual Member States is something that we, with the support of the Swedish Parliament, have argued against and strongly opposed by the Swedish Government. We are doing this together with other countries that share our view of how best to manage the public finances of both Europe and individual countries. Both this crisis and the Corona crisis show the importance of keeping order in public finances, for that is when there is freedom of action in times of crisis. This crisis has shown this once again. It is problematic that too many EU countries have entered both the Corona crisis and this situation of excessive public debt.
i-YGGZSRuqditCyomKwMShps	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. It is important that the European Council has demonstrated its ability to act quickly and clearly against the Russian brutal aggression that is taking place and which is directed against one of our close friends, the independent Ukraine. It is good that it has been clearly stated that Ukraine is part of the European family. But we know that we want more from Ukraine. You want to feel that these are not just words but that you really get a candidate status. It is well aware that this is not a fast process, but the signal of candidate status would be valuable to Ukraine at this stage. I would like to hear how the discussion went about the possibility of going further than simply saying that Ukraine is part of the family. Madam President, I would like I am also curious whether the Council discussed the trip to Kiev that three members of the Council have now made. Is this something which, as it were, marks a new approach, to actively go in to try to show solidarity on the ground with Ukraine's elected political leadership? Then I am curious about the energy issue. It was clear here. We want the dependence on Russian gas, oil and coal to be phased out, and that should happen more quickly. But many countries will have a very tough situation. Is the Prime Minister prepared to join the EU in jointly supporting the countries facing challenges in order to achieve independence?
i-HdLNV94v8yMCLAHhgn4kpr	Madam President, I would like Yes, Ukraine needs a very clear signal from the European Union that we see that they are part of the European family and that we want to have deep and close cooperation with Ukraine. It is a signal that is important to send to all those who are now fighting – the soldiers in Ukraine who are fighting and also the entire civilian population, who are living under very tough circumstances. Sweden has for a long time supported Ukraine in order to develop its institutions in order to be able to get closer to membership. Having said that, however, there are slightly different views among the EU countries on the candidate status issue. There are a number of criteria to be met. However, in the wording there are now clear openings for closer cooperation between the EU and Ukraine in various areas. This will now be taken forward to see how closer cooperation can be achieved in some areas, both to send an important signal to Ukraine and to be able to support them in this situation. The trip that three Heads of State or Government will make is an initiative from the three countries in question. As far as energy is concerned, the Commission is actively working to help countries find suppliers of inputs other than Russia. There is support from the Commission here and now. There is a very explicit desire from those countries that depend on Russian gas to get rid of this dependence as soon as possible.
i-GYhatZ7S8WLpeZDBqqQasH	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answers. Strengthening ties and increasing opportunities for close cooperation is not the same as allowing Ukraine to be a candidate and to enter the European family. It is the two-sided attitude that many in Ukraine and the Ukrainian political leadership now perceive from the EU. I think that Sweden needs to be proactive in opening up to candidate status, and I hope that the Prime Minister in the further process will be prepared to do so. Then I would like to raise the question of Article 42(7). Paragraph 9 states that this should take account of the specific nature of each country in its security and defence policy. In this context, what consideration did the Prime Minister give to taking the EU's side in this process?
i-NbbDzBui1q5g9TpMgotLy4	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kerstin Lundgren, for the question! As far as candidate status is concerned, there are very different opinions, or a little different approaches, perhaps one should say, between different EU countries. It's not a secret. Here it is important to push for something that we can agree on so that we can move forward on this issue. Enhanced cooperation in some areas was a way that we could come up with during the discussion. There we, from the Swedish side, were driving, because we need to send clear signals to Ukraine that we in the European Union see that Ukraine is part of the European family. Article 42(7) takes into account both the non-aligned countries and the many NATO countries. It is from that point of view that you should read that paragraph.
i-KpyKXNc1JhNm1cw5qGXM4p	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. It is good that the EU is showing unity against Russia and Belarus. We must show solidarity with Ukraine and in every way move Russia to end its unjust attack war. I would like to mention climate neutrality, which the EU has previously decided is to be achieved by 2050, but too little has been done to achieve that goal. Many Member States have been too passive in expanding renewable energy and remain dependent on Russia for their energy supply. At last, the EU Member States are to phase out Russian gas, oil and coal. But it'll take time. I have mentioned on a number of occasions that trade in Russian oil and gas is financing Putin's war and must therefore end now – not later. From the government representatives, the answer has always been that Sweden imports so little oil and gas from Russia that the initiative cannot come from Sweden. At the same time, however, the Minister for Energy says that Sweden will continue to buy Russian oil as long as the EU does not decide that trade should be stopped. Four days ago an oil tanker arrived at the port of Gävle with 50,000 tons of aviation fuel from Russia. The oil tank is owned by a subsidiary of one of the companies sanctioned by the EU. The director of the port says that he does not have the authority to close the port, but only the government can do so. The interest of the Swedish government to strangle Russia's income from oil and gas thus seems to be non-existent. Sweden cannot propose that the EU should stop buying Russian fossil energy, and Sweden will not stop buying Russian oil as long as the EU does not decide. My question to the Prime Minister is whether the possibility of stopping buying Russian oil and gas and Russian coal and uranium came up during the meeting and whether you discussed how Russian companies on the sanctions list should be prevented from operating in the EU through subsidiaries or through unclear rules, such as in the case of the Russian oil tanker.
i-7UVkrhMZuPeDLmrqUfQjMc	Madam President, I would like Of course, the issue of imports of various forms of Russian goods was raised, including in the field of energy. It was also found that this is something that affects Russia's economy and thus facilitates the Russian economy. But that said, many countries are extremely dependent on these imports of not least Russian gas. Should initiatives be taken to further tighten sanctions on, for example, Russian gas, I think it is politically more feasible if any of the countries that are most dependent do so than if it is a country that is to a very small extent dependent on gas that drives the issue. I think it might risk having the opposite effect. However, this underlines how important it is that we drive the green transition and that we ensure that we invest in alternatives to Russian gas. In Sweden, we have an incredible potential with offshore wind power, which could mean a lot to the Swedish energy supply and also contribute to a reduction in dependence on Russian gas in Europe. However, it is based on the fact that there are leads to Europe for it, something that I understand the Left Party is strongly opposed to.
i-HmWfYJPuMgY3b7WFEZrJLD	Madam President, I would like I note that I did not receive an answer to my question on how to prevent Russian companies that are on the sanction list from continuing to act through subsidiaries or unclear rules – it does not stop the introduction of, for example, aviation fuel from Russia via Swedish ports. Nor did I receive any comment on this circular reasoning. But I have another question to answer. The statement addresses the refugee situation and how the EU can assist the countries receiving refugees. At the moment, it is the border states that receive the most, and Moldova has warned of a humanitarian disaster, as it does not have the resources for the approximately 100 000 refugees who do not have the opportunity or the energy to escape further. Moldova has appealed for international aid. My question is whether the EU will assist countries outside the EU as well. Or is it only EU countries that will be assisted with medical and financial assistance? That is unclear in the statement.
i-Gz6NVTiZF2H6vQjJrrACVH	Madam President, I would like I'll start with the last question. The sanctions agreed jointly by the EU must, of course, be complied with. Here I assume that we are working in such a way in the Swedish authorities, and in the administration of justice, that these sanctions are being applied. The situation in Moldova is extremely problematic. It is important that we support Moldova at all levels. We have bilaterally supported Moldova from the Swedish side. UNHCR also has the opportunity to support. And, of course, there are also opportunities through the EU. We can come back to exactly how this will be designed.
i-8jchoijL1pgLgJWRYBqGej	Madam President, I would like It has now been three weeks since Putin brutally destroyed the world order that we have become accustomed to. It is three weeks since the structures that arose after the Second World War, so that we could live in peace and freedom, were broken down. For three weeks, courageous Ukrainians have fought for their lives, for their freedom and, Madam President, for our freedom of all. The EU must continue to show leadership in terms of additional sanctions, in terms of more support with arms and armaments and in terms of the reception of those who are now fleeing for their lives. And Europe must break its dependence on Russian gas. For example, we can look after ourselves and question whether it is reasonable for a country like Sweden, with good conditions to be self-sufficient in clean electricity, to import expensive and dirty electricity during periods. In Sweden we have lost parts of planned electricity production, which increases the need to import electricity from Europe, which in turn imports gas from Russia. The Repower EU Plan, presented by the Commission in May, will be incredibly important. The Prime Minister has said that Sweden has been a driving force in the discussions on how to reduce dependence on Russian oil and gas. But how has Sweden been proactive? I am thinking, for example, of the bioenergy from the forest. The Commission Communication on the EU Repower does not mention bioenergy from forests at all. Will Sweden ensure that forests become part of the solution when the EU resets to break its dependency?
i-MTL6ZG5XrmCCQNgDMuc4Cv	Madam President, I would like Yes, of course we drive from Sweden in different ways to reduce dependence. And I am very pleased that there is now a deep understanding among my colleagues in Europe that we cannot have this dependence on fossil energy sources where we need to import materials to cope with supply. Having said that, it is important to emphasise that Sweden is precisely a country that exports an enormous amount of electricity. We are a really big net exporter of electricity. We export Swedish green electricity to other countries, reducing their dependence on Russian gas and oil. Bioenergy from the forest is, as we see it from the Swedish side, a central part of the green transition. We want to use our green forest to carry out the green transition. It is no secret that different countries in the EU have slightly different views on forests. In all contexts where I have the opportunity to do so, I conduct an informational activity, to begin with, about how much forest there is in Sweden. And I inform you that we see it as an important source of the green transition. I have talked about this with a wide range of people, both my colleagues and within the European Commission. Here it is important that we from the Swedish side jointly push on in all the channels we have – with our European sister parties, through our MEPs and in other ways. This is a common interest in Sweden.
i-NciBp3jpbhtV15R9VDkGFP	Madam President, I would like Swedish forests can thus be part of the solution to replace Russian gas. It is good that the Prime Minister shares this view and also educationalally shows on maps and other things where the trees are. However, if this is to be possible, the European Commission cannot limit us by imposing, for example, logging rules on us. Does the Prime Minister understand that, in the light of what is happening in Ukraine, other Member States have become more open to using forests as bioenergy? And does the government put pressure on the Commission with regard to logging rules? Sweden has already made the journey, where we through bioenergy have reduced the need for oil and gas for our electricity and heat production. It should be time for other European countries to do the same. But maybe it takes more than this map.
i-6c59EWNHzYj7yYwykuKun8	Madam President, I would like Yeah, I think it might need more than maps. What I myself usually think works best is when I tell you what it is like when I'm going up to northern Sweden to have a vacation. I'll drive for nine hours straight. Seven of them go through the woods. That is one way of getting the idea of my colleagues going in the right direction. My picture usually makes people think about this a little bit. Besides, I can add that you haven't come that far after nine hours. You can travel many hours through the forest before you reach the northern border of Sweden. But, as I said, we all need, through all the channels we have continued to pursue these issues. From the government, we do it with full power. Basically, it is also about working with other countries that have a lot of forest and see the importance of it being used for the green transition.
i-TtAGuaUYnKcVPu8PwfRCMM	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for the report. I would like to start by saying how extremely important it is for Europe not to close down. In times of crisis and war, our ability to maintain confidence in being just an open and free trade-based Union and nothing else is being tested. When we look back at this time in the future, we will all have to ask ourselves the question: did I do everything in my power, based on my position, to support Ukraine's struggle for freedom? The European Union has done very well. The EU is more united than it has been in a long time. The Russian target of the war in Ukraine, a rapid, controlled takeover, has failed gravely. What we are now seeing instead is an indiscriminate bombing of the Ukrainian civilian population. Ukraine will not give up, but we will have to give more support. The Prime Minister has dealt with this, and I know that Members before me have dealt with it. Nevertheless, I would like to ask the Prime Minister to further discuss military aid to Ukraine under the European Peace Facility. How concrete were these discussions? What were the timeframes? What was Sweden's contribution to these discussions? And when can we see that weapons are actually landing in Ukraine in support of Ukrainian defence capabilities?
i-8PWeDsq5k19mUrCEuPsYUs	Madam President, I would like In the European Council, Sweden is one of the countries that has perhaps most strongly pushed the issue of the European Peace Facility, because we see it as an extremely important instrument for supporting Ukraine militarily, in addition to the other aid we provide both financial and humanitarian. If Ukraine is to continue to fight the Russian invasion, they will also need weapons to implement it, and there the European Peace Facility is absolutely crucial. From the Swedish side, we are pushing not only for comprehensive support through the European Peace Facility but also for support to become a reality quickly. In addition, the bilateral military support that has come to Ukraine is important, and we see that a wide range of EU countries have now supported Ukraine with arms – as is Sweden. We can recall that it is the first time since 1939 that Sweden has supported a country that is in war on this scale. Sweden gave extensive support and arms to Finland in 1939 when Russia invaded, and in the same way it is right and reasonable for Sweden to do so in this situation. It is against this background that the government has made the historic decision, with the great support of almost all parties here in the Swedish Parliament, for which I thank them.
i-X7HNsbrMHNoXfe4YsqMSYW	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. I hope that further material arms support to Ukraine will be made available quickly. We all see what is happening around Ukraine, and the time aspect is extremely important. There's no time to lose. There's only freedom to lose. I would also like to ask the Prime Minister about the solidarity journey that Poland, the Czech Republic and Slovenia took. I understand that this was not something that was discussed at the European Council, but could it be seen that such journeys in the spirit of solidarity continue, and could Sweden be the next country to travel together with other allies to Kiev to support President Zelenskyj?
i-Max7zxbWiWaG37RoxcoMUS	Madam President, I would like It was as Maria Nilsson herself pointed out an initiative from these three countries. Then, of course, it is important that we continue to discuss which is the best way to continue to support Ukraine. There, we in the government are working extremely intensively and forcefully to ensure that the resources allocated to the European Peace Facility do indeed come to Ukraine's rescue as soon as possible and additional resources come. A great deal of humanitarian aid has been provided at EU level, and this is important. From the Swedish side we will continue to work with support for Ukraine but also push for further sanctions, because what is urgently needed is that President Putin decides to stop the invasion.
i-91qcVpFxr1XFTs2XLQAjV9	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. In this extremely serious state of security policy, we see the consequences of Russia's illegal wars in Ukraine around Europe and around the world. Millions have already been forced to flee. Children's hospitals and residential buildings have been bombed in Ukraine. Even now, there is an increase in food prices in Sudan, resulting in protests, and famine is in danger of increasing in Yemen, all as a result of the war in Ukraine. We in the Green Party are proud of the support that Sweden has contributed to for many years, especially in recent weeks, and the sanctions that the West has managed to put in place in a short time. So far, however, EU sanctions have not struck where they do the most evil, namely against Russian energy exports. Fossil fuels account for well over half of Russia's export revenues, and the EU is Russia's most important energy market. EU consumption is crucial for the reconciliation of Russia's trade balance, that is to say, it is an economic precondition for the financing of the war in Ukraine. Right now, Europe is buying fossil energy from Russia worth EUR 600 million a day. The Green Party wants all imports of Russian energy into Sweden to be stopped immediately. We think it is good that the government is pushing for a phasing out of dependence, but we believe that Sweden should push for a total ban on imports for the whole of the EU. Will the EU government push the issue of a total suspension of imports of Russian oil and gas and Russian uranium?
i-VhxVhN7CioPfR55eWC6e2d	Madam President, I would like As I have said before, in order to move forward on the question of dependence on Russian gas, I am not sure that it is the countries that are least dependent on Russian gas that are going to push for a total stop. I am afraid that this could have the opposite effect, namely that countries are hitting backwards. Having said that, we from the Swedish side are very clear in the discussions that it is a vulnerability that it is in this way, both climate and security policy, and that you need to change. I think the work the Commission is doing to find other suppliers of gas is important. This does not solve environmental problems, but reduces dependence on Russian gas, which helps to finance the war. This is important. In addition, it is absolutely crucial that we in Europe extend import-independent forms of energy, where offshore wind power has an incredible potential, not least when it can be combined with hydrogen storage. Here we in Sweden need to continue to push forward in Europe but of course also do our homework by expanding more wind power. There I know that the Green Party is an important political player in Sweden.
i-QcVvwExnvFwT4ELozh83H7	Madam President, I would like It is important that Sweden push on here, and this is something that would be positive in this situation when we would need to see a very rapid change to stop the financing of the war. The EU should discuss more how we can help each other in Europe. The principle of energy solidarity would need to be extended, because we are in a position where we will need more solidarity and help between Member States to deal with the situation. In the emergency situation, a suspension of imports would really be needed now. At the same time, we see that rising energy prices hit people hard and lead to an increase in the price of other goods. There we in the Green Party have put forward a proposal for a package of 20 billion to support those most affected, but we have not heard about this. Instead, the government and other parties are running proposals that would increase dependence on Russian oil. I would therefore like to ask: how does this go with changing society?
i-PBjJHCpJaF65HToaahKLN	Madam President, I would like Sweden has come a long way in the transition, but also in Sweden we are still dependent on fossil fuels. Many people depend on the car, for example, to get to and from work and buy food. It is against this background that the government has come up with support packages. Having said that, this shows how important it is that we continue to change so that we are not dependent on imports of energy in the way we are today. Sweden is well ahead, but we must continue to work hard in this direction. There I know that the Green Party is one of the parties that has pushed and will continue to do so. The fact that we are as independent as we are today is not least due to the fact that the Green Party has consistently pursued this line and also heard it.
i-LEzxVVn99EdQXzcY6Jhvz7	Madam President, I would like As brutality increases, when Putin bombs children's hospitals, and when pregnant and redeemed mothers and their newborns are forced to flee in panic, the issue of war crimes and crimes against humanity becomes increasingly topical. When residential buildings are hit by missiles, when families of children spend night after night in shelters, when families are separated, lives are broken down and disgusting weapons like cluster bombs spread terror to millions of Ukrainians, then not only fear and powerlessness but also legitimate anger and demands are being held accountable. War criminals are to be locked up. They should not at any time believe that their crimes fall into oblivion or can be sworn free from. This applies to soldiers and officers at the front, as well as to decision-makers and leaders who believe that they are above justice. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister what measures Sweden and the EU can take to ensure accountability. For example, how can you document and secure evidence now that can be used in future legal proceedings?
i-6qgMLeakSE89wVwWEudPW7	Madam President, I would like I thank Olle Thorell for an extremely important issue. Those who now commit war crimes and abuse must be brought to justice. Therefore, Ukraine, together with Sweden, among other things, has pushed for the UN Human Rights Council to set up a special commission to investigate the current data on violations and abuse during the Russian invasion. This Council is now in place, and it is an important step. The aim is to identify individuals or organisations to be held accountable. Recommendations for action on accountability should also be drawn up. In addition, Sweden, together with other countries, has referred the situation in Ukraine to the International Criminal Court in The Hague, which has also announced that preliminary investigation and evidence-gathering work will begin directly. It is an important signal to the Russian soldiers and superiors who are now in Ukraine. In addition, the Government is investigating possibilities to provide support to organisations working with evidence collection at civil society level and the opportunities available to operate through the OSSE. This is an important issue. If you have committed abuse, you should be held to account. It is important for the victims, but it is also a signal that the international community is watching. It can reduce the risk of various forms of abuse.
i-Ai4iRV73FcAcMuSUij2AH8	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for his very clear answer. I am pleased that we are also thinking about the aftergame. Now we are in the midst of this terrible, but the things we are doing now will determine how healing, accountability and reconstruction will happen. I am pleased that those plans exist. I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Prime Minister whether she can develop something about the war crimes and abuses that are now taking place, the suffering they bring, the enormous humanitarian crises that we see unfolding in front of our eyes in Ukraine and increasingly in neighbouring countries when the refugee wave is increasing. What can Sweden do to alleviate the heartbreaking suffering we all see?
i-NxL7fJytxotDoLQJEpRFtG	Madam President, I would like The attacks of the Russian military that we can now see against children's hospitals, ordinary residential buildings and hospitals are not something that leaves no man untouched. A strong response from the international community is important here. A very large proportion of the world's countries showed their support for the Joint Declaration adopted at the UN General Assembly, and this is an important signal to Russia. In addition, Sweden will of course continue to support Ukraine humanitarianly. We shall support those countries where people are fleeing, and we shall ensure that, together, we in Europe take responsibility for those people who are now fleeing war and persecution. Sweden should of course take its share of the responsibility.
i-XijrNi38kQ8duB4TDd4dG1	Madam President, I would like I welcome the strong response from the EU, Sweden and the wider world towards Russia's irresponsible and powerful invasion of Ukraine. The strong sanctions against Russia that have been adopted are good. Now it is about implementing them clearly so that they actually have an effect. I am thinking of the courageous Russian opposition that wants to see another Russia. We can see them on television or stand in streets and squares and resist, even though they know they are being severely punished. How will we manage in our thoughts to separate the Russian regime, Putin, the Kremlin, from the Russian people who want another Russia? I wonder what the Prime Minister has done and how the discussions are going in the EU to support the Russian opposition.
i-8qj1qJARNqVxAbA11bGrSA	Madam President, I would like Håkan Svenneling raises a very important issue. All of us in this Parliament can help and contribute by being clear that the Russian invasion is decided by the Russian leadership. It is not the Russian people who are behind the invasion. I try to address this in all the different situations I find myself in, but of course the members of the Riksdag, in the form of the leadership they hold as a member of the Swedish Parliament, can pass that message on to Swedish society. For example, I specifically raised the issue when I made a video recording aimed at Swedish middle school students and middle school students. I said there are many Russians in Sweden who are totally against the war. Then you're supposed to be a good friend. And we adults are also supposed to be nice friends and nice fellow human beings. That is a very important signal. Here it is important to make it clear that there is some aid from the Swedish side to Russia. It does not go to the Russian state or to the Russian political leadership, but to the civil society organisations whose members are now facing long prison sentences precisely because they stand up and protest against the war. It is a support that we from the Swedish side should continue with, for example, to human rights organisations or to the free media that still exist in Russia.
i-4U4zwAE1DWvrnmMLDMpU81	Madam President, I would like There are wars going on in Europe. It is a tremendous idea that one European country is invading another country in Europe, but that is happening right now. Today, the Russian invasion of Ukraine is on its twentieth day. Quite exactly at 4 a.m. on Thursday morning, 24 February, I, and certainly many others, was awakened by the announcement that Russia had begun an invasion of Ukraine. It's been 20 days of invasion – or actually 8 years and 20 days, because in February 2014, Russia's annexation of Crimea began. To this were added the separatists who, supported by Russia, took control of Luhansk and Donetsk in eastern Ukraine. There the battles have been going on ever since. Madam President, I would like There are wars going on in Europe. When I was in school, we read about war in Europe. We read a lot about World War I. We read quite a lot, to say the least, about World War II. We were horrified and thought that what everyone said after World War II... never again war... was self-evident. At the same time, my generation grew up in a time of terror balance and nuclear threats. After all, war was something that could happen at worst, with devastating consequences — perhaps even total destruction. But the Communist Eastern bloc collapsed, and many of the nuclear weapons were armed down. At the same time, however, there was a civil war in Yugoslavia. After all, never again was war so obvious. But the wars in the Balkans ended, and a time of hope for peace – even eternal peace – spread out. Yet we are where we are today. Madam President, I would like There are wars going on in Europe. We do not want that in Europe. We don't want it like that in any part of the world. But when it does happen in Europe, it triggers extremely strong reactions throughout the world. Sweden condemns the Russian invasion of Ukraine in the strongest possible terms. The invasion is unprovoked, illegal and indefensible. We are united in our solidarity with Ukraine and the Ukrainian people, and Russia will meet with a united and robust response. Russia must immediately cease all military operations and unconditionally withdraw all its forces from Ukraine. The territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine must be respected. Russia's armed attack is a flagrant violation of international law and of the European security order. It creates great suffering for the Ukrainian people and threatens international peace and security. Responsibility for this lies solely with the Russian political leadership. We are united within the EU and with our transatlantic partners in our solidarity with Ukraine. Russia's action will continue to be met by a united and robust response in solidarity with Ukraine. Vladimir Putin threatening rhetoric is dangerous and totally unacceptable and further increases tensions in the region, including in the immediate vicinity of Sweden. NATO and the West are not a threat to Russia's security, but the responsibility for the current situation lies exclusively with Russia. It is Russia that invades Ukraine. It is Russia that repeatedly violates its obligations under international law vis-à-vis neighbouring countries. It is Russia that can reduce tensions by stopping its aggression. Sweden and the EU are in favour of Ukraine. We do this by giving weapons and protective equipment to Ukraine, something that Sweden has not done since 1939 when Sweden gave arms to Finland when they were attacked by the Soviet Union. We do so through financial support to the Ukrainian state. We do so through loan guarantees to the World Bank. We do so through contributions to the UNHCR, the United Nations Refugee Organisation, and to UNICEF, the United Nations Children's Organisation – all of this for humanitarian support to people in Ukraine who are currently both fighting and fleeing for their lives. We do this by giving medical supplies to Ukraine. Around Europe and Sweden people, associations and parishes open up their homes and premises to receive fleeing people from Ukraine. Our support is extensive and in some parts unique compared to what Sweden usually does, but we also find ourselves in a unique situation. Madam President, I would like With regard to the more formal parts of the report on security policy we are now debating, there are five proposals for decisions on announcements to the government. The first is that the government should work out a new approach towards Russia in the light of Russia's invasion of Ukraine and violations of the European security regime. The second is that the government should make a clear NATO option, which means that Sweden maintains the possibility to apply for membership of NATO. The third is that the government should anchor Sweden's security policy line in the Riksdag. The fourth is that at meetings on the UN Convention on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, it should be made clear that Sweden does not intend to sign the Convention. The fifth, in conclusion, is that the government should set up an investigation into Sweden's operation in Afghanistan. The fact that Sweden's approach to Russia needs to be reviewed is a matter of course, and, as is evident from the statements by Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde, this work has already started within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. That Sweden would have a so-called NATO option decided a majority here in the Riksdag in December 2020. We Social Democrats reserved ourselves against that decision when we felt that it created uncertainty as to where Sweden was heading in terms of security policy and, above all, a reversal in a very short time. Such decisions require more preparatory work and impact assessment. I still regret, above all, how quickly and suddenly that decision was taken. I am not totally opposed to anchoring the security policy line in Parliament, for example by receiving a letter from the government. Once again, however, decisions are being made with a rather small factual basis and in a short time. This needs more discussion and reflection. That Sweden should make it clear that Sweden does not intend to sign the Convention at meetings on the Convention on Nuclear Weapons, I do not see as a major problem. I am well aware that there is no majority here in Parliament to sign the Convention, and so is the government. What concerns me is that some parties are clear that they can never consider signing the Convention. I think that is a strange attitude, but I also understand what it will be opposed to in future lines and speeches in this debate. An investigation of Sweden's operation in Afghanistan is something that the government is currently preparing. Madam President, I would like With a little more patience and with a little more constructiveness, several of these announcements, which are likely to receive a majority today, would not have had to be made. We Social Democrats support our three reservations and the specific opinion that we have in the report. For time winning, however, we limit ourselves to requesting consent to reservation 4. While we have different views here in Parliament in parts of the foreign and security policy, I would like to make it very clear that the criticism and condemnation of the Committee on Foreign Affairs in relation to Russia's invasion of Ukraine is unanimous, strong and unwavering. Last night, on my way home from Parliament, I talked to my colleague Magnus Ek from the Center Party. He mentioned how, in a very difficult time, we in the Committee on Foreign Affairs have very serious presentations and discussions. Sometimes we even disagree quite a bit. But Magnus also pointed out that at the same time there is a warm and friendly atmosphere in the Foreign Affairs Committee. I agree, Madam President, and I would like to thank the whole committee for its good cooperation between Members. At the same time, I would like to express my thanks from the whole committee to the secretariat of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Finally, Madam President, there is a war going on in Europe. This must end immediately.
i-KuQQnsBck7wXdgb4DSfiXT	Madam President, I would like Let me apologize now that this may take a little more time than I had in mind. Let me also first turn to all the uncertain and hesitant Social Democrats around the country and in this House. You should call things by their proper names. What is now going on in Ukraine is a form of torture. What Russia is doing is tormenting people and a nation to humiliate it and force it to submit to power language. That's why the bombings are an atrocity. On this we have many examples in modern history, and they are generally associated with names: Guernica, Oradour, Babij Jar, Katyn, Lidice, Sharpeville, Treblinka and Hanoi Christmas 1972. There violence has triumphed, but the judgment of posterity has fallen hard upon those who bear responsibility. New names are now added to the line: Charkiv, Mariupol and Kiev in Ukraine since 24 February 2022. Madam President, I would like We have to deal with a motion for a resolution that lands in a total of five announcements. There are extraordinary numbers for an ordinary committee. It is particularly evident when it comes to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, where the attitude of at least the Moderates has been to seek as far as possible agreement, breadth and consensus, preferably on security policy issues. What this shows is a parliamentary weak government which does not ensure support and backing and which, in various ways, tries to avoid admitting to itself that it is leaning towards only 100 of the 349 parliamentary mandates and that this requires sensitivity, which, in addition to being right in substance in the current situation, is also right in shape when it comes to security policy. In the important choice between Sweden's interest and the party's interest, the Social Democrats are chosen. The Moderates choose Sweden. Madam President, I would like In Europe a war rages as hard and cruel as during World War II and tragically enough in some of the same areas. Then it was the Nazis who attacked Ukraine's Kiev; today it is the Russian Federation. Europe, and therefore Sweden, has been in the most difficult security situation since 1945. We're in the third time zone. From 1945 to 1989, the Cold War reigned. From 1989 to February 24, 2022, we were in the past after the Berlin Wall had been demolished and the Iron Curtain had been cut up. Now, since February 24, 2022, we are in the time of the ongoing war. The distance between Sweden and Ukraine is no longer than 700 km. For Kaliningrad it is even shorter. It's our immediate vicinity. The threat is evident not only in terms of military attacks but also in terms of cyber attacks and misinformation campaigns. The latest real Defence Committee, under Björn von Sydow's leadership, came after various resistances, including trixing from then Prime Minister Stefan Löfven and Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström, until the wording that an armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. That is a conclusion that holds true and which is now guiding the structure of defence policy and the orientation of security policy in a difficult terrain. It has also been argued in this House from the Socialist side that our military freedom of alliance serves us well and contributes to stability and security in Europe. Does it? Has the reality not now caught up with even the most vehement opponents of NATO? A NATO application would not destabilise, as Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson claims, but contribute to increased security around the Baltic Sea, as Lithuania's Foreign Minister Gabrielius Gabrielius said a few days ago in the Ekot Saturday interview. NATO is about collective self-defence and countries that have voluntarily joined forces and, like the three Musketeers promised, all for one, one for all. Now it's about 30 Musketeers. Against a common defence is Russia. Russia is holding a military force, and it is an offensive one with current wars in Ukraine since 2014, with occupied territory in Georgia since 2008 and with Russian troops in Moldova. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, we note that the Social Democrats do not want to build a Swedish security policy that takes into account what the Riksdag and a clear majority say. If you do not talk to others and do not build alliances, Sweden's elected members will mark. Sweden's security policy line is laid down by the government. However, the government does well to listen to the Riksdag and not seek confrontation, as has been said that a very large majority supported the idea of a Swedish NATO option. In the defence decision of December 2020, a parliamentary majority said yes to a Swedish NATO option. This was based on a motion by the Center Party but had already been dealt with earlier by the Riksdag. What happened then, in 2020, was a movement within the Swedish Democrats. It was a welcome movement, I think. The same party – the Swedish Democrats – as S, V and MP say no to NATO, together with M, C, L and KD constitute a majority for the NATO option. These five parties, Madam President, together represent 204 of the 349 seats of this House. Personally, I and the Moderates prefer full membership, but the first objective is that all military, political and legal preparations should be in place. That is why a NATO option is important. In this connection, the Moderates have also worked to increase defence expenditure to the equivalent of 2% of GDP to 2025. Madam President, I would like This is precisely because the corresponding 2 per cent of bnp is now to be used for Sweden's defence is important. Several parties, not least my own party The Moderates, have pushed for this. One party, the Social Democrats, has, in various contexts, equally criticised other parties for their quick roll in the case of a so-called NATO option and strongly opposed proposals for increased defence efforts with derogatory epithets such as Madam President, I would like So what do the Social Democrats themselves do? Well, hasty and funny, 2% of bnp was proclaimed at a press conference some day ago with the Prime Minister, the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Defence. This was as welcome as it was unexpected, but it has to be said that the Social Democrats themselves can devote themselves to both very sharp throws and the development of their own bingo badges in a serious security policy situation. The European security regime as we know it has fallen. Russia does not respect territorial sovereignty or the right of countries to make their own security policy choices. On Wednesday 2 March this year Russian fighter aircraft violated Swedish airspace as a threatening and warning act. Russian rhetoric is equally clear when it speaks of retaliatory measures against Sweden. For many years we have seen evidence of Russia's low threshold for resorting to military force. This requires increased security based on what we agree on: a armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. Madam President, I would like All the tragic and terrible things that are now happening after Russia's invasion mean that there is a time before 24 February 2022 and a time after 24 February 2022. It makes sense, as the Riksdag is now doing, to make demands for a new Russia policy. We must relate to an aggressive power that carries out armed attacks on civilians – first-born children at the BB, families in residential areas and children at day care centres. It is a regime that carries out war crimes and acts that are contrary to all humanity and which will lead to an international court or tribunal for those responsible. It is a Russia that flagrantly ignores the agreements that have been concluded and lies not only to its own people, but also to the outside world. Madam President, I would like Now we need gathering and action. The government can gather with its 100 mandates if it shows action. Madam President, I would like An extremely remarkable and serious part of the Russian invasion of Ukraine is the ease with which Putin and the circle around him talk about the use of weapons of mass destruction: chemical weapons, biological weapons and even nuclear weapons. These are harsh realities that no pious hopes can hide. The so-called nuclear ban, for which the Social Democrats have also expressed such sympathy, turns out to be a qualified stick mark. None of the nuclear-owners are involved in this process, least of all the Russia that is threatening nuclear weapons. It is now a matter of sticking to the binding agreements which, after all, exist and the processes in which nuclear powers are involved. Today, with our decisions, the Swedish Parliament will state that although the Government intends to participate in the planned ban meeting, Sweden does not intend to ratify the convention. This means that the Social Democrats have not been able to gather a majority in the Swedish parliament behind the course taken at last year's Party Congress: The goal is for Sweden to join. ..................................................... Today, Parliament will say no to what the Social Democrats have stated at their Party Congress. It is a logical step to take, as the analysis the government had previously made indicates that the Convention will not entail the disarmament of any nuclear weapons at all. None of the countries that currently have nuclear weapons are behind the initiative to ban nuclear weapons. The possibilities for monitoring the agreement are also small. The Convention even risks being counterproductive because it undermines the existing so-called NPT agreement. For us, the interest and security of Sweden as a whole is better than the interest of an individual party. Madam President, I would like I am in favour of reservation number 2 by the Moderates, the Center Party, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals for a clear yes to NATO. Finally, I would like to add to the praise given by the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The atmosphere is good, despite the fact that there are different sharp and clear opinions, as this report shows, not least. But this is also the Swedish strength – that in a democracy with eight parliamentary parties we can hump each other in chambers and committees but still all work and work for Sweden's best, each one according to its ability.
i-UD1Xi8mKuhd3d4HMom73Rh	Madam President, I would like Mr Wallmark here makes a number of claims that the fact that there are five proposals for announcements in the report shows a parliamentary weak government. But, Hans Wallmark, what was really most important to the Moderates in this work? Was it to show what Hans Wallmark describes as a parliamentary weak government, or was it to strive for unity and unity in Swedish security and foreign policy? Hans Wallmark also takes up the NATO option decision and describes the government as a confrontative on this issue. The truth is that we had several years of work in the Defence Committee and that the Moderates there took the initiative that we should not discuss NATO issues because they knew that we would not be able to agree on them. It was an attitude that we Social Democrats accepted, because we had the same attitude– we know where we have each other, and we will not be able to get along. In retrospect, I can regret that route a little bit. It would probably be good if we had spent some time in the Defense Committee discussing a possible NATO option. What happened now went quickly, and it was not good for the clarity of Swedish foreign and security policy. Finally, Madam President, why do the Moderates never want to sign a nuclear ban?
i-SYSMPdXXyjBuT24gENMrR6	Madam President, I would like In December 2020, this Parliament decided by an over-clear majority to support the idea of a NATO option. The five parties behind it have all expressed in different ways the idea that the government should invite broad security policy deliberations on the basis that the same government lacks support on important security policy issues. Madam President, I would like December 2020– this means that the whole month disappeared that year as well as all 12 months in 2021. Some day ago the Social Democrats opened up to conduct some kind of security policy analysis under the pressure that it is now going very quickly in Finland. Madam President, I would like Kenneth G. Forslund says: Why can't we talk, talk and discuss things like NATO? The truth is that the Social Democrats have spent 14 months avoiding it. Then you have to think about which direction the critical finger should point – towards others or against yourself. Then Kenneth G. Forslund returns to the fact that this NATO option would be a reversal that took place in a very short time. That's not true. Four parties have run this far before in the Riksdag. What happened was that a fifth party joined. I thought it was good. But if you are going to talk about a reversal, I can say that I have been conducting defence negotiations with the government since 2014. When did you find that 2 per cent of bnp was a suitable level for Swedish defence?
i-B6s3j5PSe5w6MwMTbtu6f6	Madam President, I would like Hans Wallmark says that the government should invite broad security policy talks and that it has been 14 months when the Social Democrats have avoided discussion. That's not really true. I think that everyone who comes with just a little bit in the development of society is well aware that we are even still in a pandemic that has led to extraordinary demands and conditions for all of us throughout Swedish society, including those of us who are elected here in the Swedish parliament and the government we have. Much focus has rightly been put on dealing with it. So it is not that this is something that has been avoided. Now there is an absolutely urgent need to do so, which is extremely regrettable. But it's good that it's happening now. These calls will probably start tomorrow. I hope that there will be wise and constructive talks where we can take and give between the eight parties involved. But do not make it that the government would have tried to avoid discussing this. I think that's a simple explanation model. So to 2 percent in funding for the defense. Yes, in the light of what we are seeing right now, the government has made the assessment that we need to increase the defence budget further. Sweden is already making a historically large increase in defence spending between 2014 and 2030. However, in the light of Russia's invasion into Ukraine, it is clear that we must speed up and increase the amount of money.
i-SCV4A6jfwDvrLoJmUn1DFD	Madam President, I would like I would like to emphasise that I have been negotiating with the Social Democrats and the Government since 2014, and the idea of 2% has never existed until the press conference a few days ago. I think it is a good thing, but we need to discuss when it should be introduced. The Moderates have said in 2025, and other parties are in the same heat. I appreciate the reversal, but it's nothing but a reversal. I can agree that the reality has changed at a very rapid pace – even if, to be hindsight, ever since Russia's invasion of Georgia in 2008 and the illegal annexation of Crimea in 2014 has seen a seriously deteriorating security situation. This has also led to the conclusion not without discussion that an armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. At a conference in Sälen, the Social Democratic Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs even argued against this before adjusting the picture so that it became clear. Madam President, I would like The truth is that a majority in Parliament pushed this through on a NATO option in December 2020. I am well aware that there has been a pandemic, but both the President and the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs know that there have been numerous meetings, including with classified information, from December to today. Unfortunately, the pandemic cannot be used as an excuse for not having had the kind of security policy talks that may eventually be held tomorrow. There is some delay on the shutter in that camera, from December 2020 to February 2022– but all the more gratifying that it now says clicks.
i-U2nih86B8hoAiUr4BwD1qi	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 6 concerning the investigation into Sweden's previous security policy and, at the same time, underlining that we support all our reservations and specific opinions. The wind anemone out on the slopes stands up and says it's ours now. The children they pick the little soups happily rush home with shouting and laughter. Spring never came to Ukraine. Instead, the war came. On February 24, everything changed. Instead of soups, Ukrainian children pick up burned house waste, and laughter has been turned into abyssed screams during Putin's terror bombings of houses, children's hospitals, and birth clinics. The cannons of the Russian despot are aimed at civilian targets, not just military ones. Today is a time that does not feel like the postwar era. War prevails in Europe, and the use of violence is on a level that has not been seen on our continent since the Second World War. It is something that has until now only been in the history books of our generation of elected representatives, but now it is serious. The future is uncertain. But it looks dark, and it's hard to see any light point. Rather, Russia's bloody wars in Ukraine are increasing, and there is a risk that the war will expand and that more states will be withdrawn. Moldova, already occupied by Russian troops, is at hand. Moreover, the demands of the Putin regime on the whole of the Western world are such that a conflict between Russia and NATO can no longer be ruled out. There is also a nuclear threat, and in particular the threat that Russia may resort to tactical nuclear weapons. The severe consequences of a nuclear war cannot be stressed enough, and the risk of weapons of mass destruction being used needs attention. We need to be prepared for this scenario as well. Madam President, I would like The serious situation requires that we in this House address foreign policy with realism and on the basis of the preservation of peace and freedom. Now is not the time to pursue wishful thinking or to strive for a domestic foreign policy in which Sweden seeks a pat on the shoulder and navigates after the map more than reality. I would therefore like to call on everyone to really review the familiar positions and not get caught up in the thinking that existed before Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Ideology must not trump real politics, not when Europe and Sweden are under real Russian threat and when Ukraine pays with blood for Europe's freedom, which also means that Sweden's freedom and independence can be preserved. The Swedish Democrats are a party which, especially at this time, will pursue a policy of pragmatism and will not stand by positions adopted in a different security policy situation. During our election conference this weekend, we opened up because Sweden's security policy cooperation may need to be reconsidered, and this also includes NATO membership. For more than a year, we, together with a majority in Parliament, have voted in favour of Sweden declaring a NATO option. However, this has not happened. Nor did the government invite for security policy talks on the grounds that a majority in this House supported the NATO option. But a confession will be given to the government, and that is that talks are now being planned. Following the Russian demands of 17 December last year and especially after the Russian invasion of 24 February this year, a NATO option had served Sweden's interests. Russia is currently threatening Sweden through both statements and actions. We have seen that Russia has violated Sweden's airspace, and in speaking moments the Russian northern fleet is grouping out its most powerful units in the Barents Sea in response to the Cold Response exercise in which Sweden participates. It is important to realise that Russian interests and abilities exist in both the Baltic Sea and the Arctic as well as Ukraine. Sweden's participation in the Cold Response exercise is most welcome, and the Swedish Democrats have supported the extended cooperation with NATO and Finland in our neighbourhood for a long time. International cooperation, as the government itself has stated, is a cornerstone of our defence capabilities and ultimately of how we assert our independence. Madam President, I would like The cooperation that Sweden has with NATO allies must be protected and developed. In addition to strong defence, these are of the utmost importance for Sweden's security. The fact that the UK has now extended defence guarantees to Sweden is welcome. In the future, defence cooperation between Western democracies will need to be strengthened and consolidated more clearly. In this context, Putin's nuclear threat is worrying, and the impact if the Russian regime decides to use weapons of mass destruction can be considerable. Radiation, combat gas and bacteriological weapons know no bounds. There is a great risk that the use of weapons of mass destruction in Europe, regardless of where, could have devastating consequences. We've seen that before. At this point, it is ultimately the nuclear weapons belonging to the states that are part of NATO that can act as a deterrent to the Putin regime. No matter how bad you feel about nuclear weapons, since the introduction of nuclear weapons, these weapons have been used by democratic states to deter dictatorships and thus prevent a new world war, and that still applies. Madam President, I would like In this strengthened situation, to work for Sweden to sign the UN's ban on nuclear weapons, TPNW, is directly irresponsible and can put Sweden in a very dangerous position. This was also the outcome of the investigation into this proposal. A Swedish observership to the Convention would probably damage the important relations with our partner countries, and it is therefore welcome that there has been a majority in the committee in order for Sweden not to sign the Convention. Hopefully, this can also lead to Sweden leaving the observership. It is not only the case that the Convention itself is counterproductive in view of its objective of preventing the use of nuclear weapons. In addition, it is in itself poor in several areas, as the government's own investigators also found. It is high time that the government considered its own arguments about Sweden's position on TPNW, otherwise there is an obvious risk that party political considerations go ahead of Sweden's national interests at a time when such a priority could have devastating consequences, consequences that I believe none of us can yet see. Madam President, I would like Finally, at this difficult time, I would also like to vent the wisdom that we should look back to look ahead and then raise the issue of the need to learn from past mistakes and also what has been done right by previous governments. Today, after the invasion of Ukraine and now that most parties including governments are talking about increased defence efforts, it is also important to learn from the time that has been and ask us how Sweden has been so unprepared in the serious security policy situation that we are now in. How did this happen, what decisions were made and what consequences did they have? These are questions that we need to sort out and that everyone should be interested in answering in order to be able to conduct a comprehensive policy in the future that will increase Sweden's preparedness and we will be better equipped in the future. This issue should not be partisan, but such a broad investigation should be carried out with broad support. In our opinion, that should be the case. In fact, it has been carried out on several previous occasions, the most recent of which was in 2002 when a security policy investigation studied the period 1969-1989. It is now 20 years ago. Therefore, we believe that it is time to carry out an investigation evaluating security policy in 1989-2009. This time is very interesting, because it was then that Sweden's defence was armed down and almost decommissioned by first red and then blue governments. It was at that time that Sweden's security policy was transformed from being a freedom of alliance in peace, aiming at neutrality in war, to becoming a policy of solidarity in security policy. Many lessons could be drawn from this period, and it is important that such an investigation is carried out without undue delay so that the testimony of important persons from this time is not at risk of being lost. Madam President, I would like It may be difficult to take in the change that has taken place since Russia's invasion of Ukraine and the current bloody war in the country. But it is our job in this House to take it in and see how it affects state art. This is what the Swedish people, our clients, are paying us for, not for being a megaphone for only pre-produced party programs or ideological positions and blind spots created in deepest peace time – a time that looked different before 24 February. Now it is a new time, and we must all act on the demands that are made when Sweden's very existence is threatened by an aggressive nuclear power as a neighbour. Sweden's foreign policy will be designed to protect Sweden's interests and reputation. Our country should be a voice for peace, freedom and good relations between the peoples and states of the world. Sweden shall clearly stand up and mark against violations of fundamental rights and freedoms and of the territory of sovereign states.
i-TsZ8wiYhnrPMKBx8GMhje8	Madam President, I would like In today's debate, Aron Emilsson and the Swedish Democrats basically say all the right things. But if you scratch the surface and look at Sweden's democrats' foreign and security policy and put it in a slightly more historical perspective, you have to think. How was it really, Aron Emilsson, with what was said to read on the Swedish Democrats' website that Sweden should respect the balance between the great powers, what you then suddenly deleted from the website when you received criticism a few weeks ago? And what was it like, Aron Emilsson, with your party leader's inability to choose between President Biden and Vladimir Putin? What credibility does what you stand here and say, Aron Emilsson, which in many ways is the right thing? Is that really what the Swedish Democrats stand for?
i-CqDBEyqh2ao9yD6qZtVohC	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kenneth G. Forslund, for the question. First of all, I would like to say that there has been, and was, an unclear and unfortunate wording. It has been revised since then and during our recent election conferences, where formulations have been adjusted to better respond to and respond to the security policy challenges we face today. However, I would like to make it clear that there has been a great deal of justification in the past for a diplomatic balance and a peace-keeping purpose, that there is deterrence against dictatorships and aggressive empires and tension between superpowers, and that in the geopolitical situation and immediate area where Sweden and Finland find themselves, there needs to be a calm in the security policy situation. It's worked before. Unfortunately, we are no longer there today. When it comes to the question of which leader you choose, I did not say at all long ago in the Ecots Saturday interview that it is obvious and clear, as Jimmie Åkesson also said on follow-up questions about the famous statement, that every day of the week, in the international community, in our international cooperation, in our Western community and in our democratic culture, we always put Biden in front of Putin. But we will never choose a state leader who somehow dictates terms for Sweden. It's all about no matter what. On the other hand, I would like to ask the Social Democrats why this report and this debate are so firmly based on their Party Congress's decision to wish to observe, participate in and, by extension, ratify the United Nations Convention on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, which would in itself risk the relaxation and low tension of NATO vis-à-vis Russia.
i-W1xFKzxUWgAc5ewy5L6T5d	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Aron Emilsson, for the answers! The wording that Sweden should respect the balance between the great powers calls Aron Emilsson an unclear and unhappy formulation. But it wasn't just on the website. It was not a simple editing mistake. It is also in your election manifesto from 2018, and the election manifesto is something that parties in any case tend to spend a lot of time and seriousness on filing up the formulations in. This failure to choose between President Biden and Vladimir Putin was just the latest example of the inability of Swedish democratic representatives to choose between democrats and authoritarian leaders. It is not an individual example; it is one in a series of examples of this inability. With regard to the nuclear ban and the question that Mr Emilsson is asking me about it, the Social Democrats have long been in favour of nuclear disarmament. We have long decided that we want a nuclear ban. In recent years, the nuclear ban convention that now exists has been added. Our assessment is that it is not functional and sufficient in its current form but that it needs to be developed, clarified and supplemented. We would like Sweden to work actively on this. The Swedish Social Democratic Government intends to participate in the conference to be held. On the other hand, we are well aware that a majority here in the Swedish Parliament does not want to adopt that Convention.
i-Q4rjR5ZmUjBZYt6GXbCQPp	Madam President, I would like It is, of course, wise to be well aware of the parliamentary conditions in this House and that a majority does not share the opinion of the Social Democrats in this. It is also clear that it is clearly stated and directly stated in the Ministry letter and the investigation that was the basis for testing TPNW and what consequences and searches it could have for Sweden that it jeopardises cooperation between our main partners and not least many NATO countries. It also states that the likelihood that this Convention would have a normative capacity and that the non-democrats and dictatorships with nuclear weapons possession would be low if not non-existent. The question then is: Is it not more important to avoid these meetings of the parties and to signal a clear message on the part of Sweden, to indicate in the increasingly intensified cooperation with NATO and Finland and with this security structure that a ban convention of this kind, which both the Swedish Armed Forces and investigations strongly advise against participating in as an observer and ultimately ratifying, is directly harmful in this security policy situation? Is it not more important, then, to put the security situation before a Congress decision of the Social Democratic Labour Party?
i-8XCNw2eNfPzZ3MaD314stV	Madam President, I would like Sweden's security policy is in an era of reconsideration with us, but also in many other countries. It is a very serious security political reality that we have all now seen and met. Of course it's affecting. This debate is based on motions written no later than autumn 2021. It may seem a little odd that, at this time, we are having a debate on security policy with motions as our starting point. We are right to agree that Sweden should pursue a joint security policy. The question is whether this security policy should also give us assurances that, if anything happens that we have never thought would happen, we will not end up in the same situation as Ukraine is in right now. Many have thought and said: we could not believe that Putin could make a complete invasion of Ukraine, an independent democratic country that had been guaranteed its borders and had it signed by Russia – not Russia alone, but Russia clearly – against giving up its nuclear weapons. But what many perceived as completely unthinkable has actually happened. And we have a tendency, Madam President, not to think about the unthinkable. But that is what we must do when discussing security policy. Although we say that 24 February meant a shift for many, when it became clear that Russia began its invasion, it was not the beginning of the policy that Putin has been so clear about for a long time. Russia's brutal attack on Ukraine, an independent and democratic state in our vicinity, was not a flash from a clear sky. Signals have been available – the second war in Chechnya, Putin's speech in Munich 2007, Georgia 2008, Ukraine 2014, Syria 2015. We have seen the tracks – Grozny and the shut-down Chechnya. We've seen Crimea, Donetsk and Aleppo. Let us not now see another capital in ruins after Putin's devastating war machine. Madam President, I would like We have also been able to see the powerful internal repression of everything and anyone who has been experienced as a threat to the Kremlin's view of the state of affairs. We have also debated and discussed various issues concerning Russia and developments in this House. Last May 21 we had a debate on developments in Russia. Madam President, I would like I also recall the discussion on the two-track policy and the need to prioritise among the five principles of the European Union that have been included. We have wanted to be both, and we have not seen that Russia has chosen a track. We have offered a menu, and Russia has been able to choose. We must now see that this approach does not work against an authoritarian state. D a does not work against Putin and his nationalist and conservative position in Russia. It also does not work against China with China's one-party government with Xi Jinping that handles everything according to its authoritarian stance. We must learn from this, Madam President. In Ukraine, we see daily pictures of terror and terrorist attacks against the civilian population, against schools and against hospitals. And it is tragic, Madam President, that the Russian people do not have the opportunity to see this very thing. We have every reason to distinguish between the Russian people who are in the mirage of propaganda. At the same time, however, we must remember that there are also those who go other ways, courageously protesting Russian citizens in St Petersburg, Moscow and elsewhere. We hear again and again about arrests. Someone on TV stated: Putin cannot arrest us all. Keep protesting! We must also see this. Madam President, I would like The first point of this report concerns the European security regime. This security regime will not celebrate 50 years in 2025. Helsinki will not be allowed to hold the grand meeting expected. This security order has been bombed by Putin with his missile and grenade attacks on the Ukrainian population. The question that many also ask is how the global security regime and multilateral structures will work. We also see other signs, and we will have to consider how we relate to the various structures in which we find ourselves. How will the OSSE work? Madam President, I would like I note that the discussion was once again heated in the Council of Europe on Monday and Tuesday. I was involved in pushing for the expulsion of the Russian Duma's elected members from the Council of Europe after Crimea. But I'm afraid they had to come back. Yesterday it was decided unanimously that Russia should be excluded from the Council of Europe. The Council of Ministers is meeting today. But only yesterday, in response to the clear unanimous opinion of the Council of Europe, Russia chose to send out the signal to withdraw from the Council of Europe. The European security regime and post-war security architecture are changing. We have every reason to see that, Madam President. In this report, we chose to mark a new Russia policy, because a new Russia policy must come. In this context, we chose not to lift our claim to mark the UN's responsibility to protect, the obligation to protect. We see that it is extremely important today to try to assert the basic structures of the system and not to bring in further questions. We must safeguard the basic structure of the UN. That is why we chose not to raise that request at this stage. Then, Madam President, we have our proposal on the NATO option. It is supported by a majority in committee and probably in this House later. I note that Kenneth G. Forslund commented that we lacked patience and constructiveness. But, Madam President, we actually perceive that we have been patient. We have also sought constructiveness, stretched out our hands and arms, and invited to talk. But there has been no interest in it. The NATO option, Madam President – I am sorry that I am also going over the speaking time as everyone else – was a proposal that we raised already in 2019/ 20 in our motion. That is when it first came to the Chamber. So there has been time to see. And even though Kenneth G. Forslund is talking about a week of change in the Foreign Affairs Committee, Madam President, I remember Prime Minister Löfven reading out his government declaration in autumn 2014. It certainly did not mean any time to discuss it for all of us. It came as a flash from the clear sky – a whole new policy. We believe that the NATO option is important, and we hope that we will be able to move forward in that area. Membership of NATO is our objective, and we also call for reservation 2 under paragraph 3. I would also like to touch briefly on what is said in the report on the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. There we have chosen not to go further with our demand because we believe that the report takes on board what we say, namely that we must give priority to the NPT. It is also on the basis of the priority given to the NPT, i.e. the Non-Proliferation Treaty, that we believe that it is important not to send out a signal in any way in connection with the review conference on the prohibition agreement that Sweden wants or is willing to ratify. Rather, we should be clear that that is not the intention. If the government is now supported to participate as an observer this year, if the conference is to take place, we expect that it will not be the start of a discussion about the government's own path. This will mean that we will lose support for the future. I hope that the government realises that it is not free travel but that it is important to take responsibility for not being stopped by Parliament this time. With that, Madam President, as I said, I am in favour of reservation 2 and the other parts of the committee's proposal.
i-712vGi8ZdXtw6qC99QtQcB	Madam President, I would like The two-track policy does not work," says Kerstin Lundgren – not against Russia and not against China. I think we should be a little careful about condemning two-track policies, that is to say, having relations and trade on the one hand while, on the other hand, having a very critical dialogue about the human rights abuses that are taking place, the lack of freedom of expression that exists and the restrictions on democracy – if there has even been – that are taking place. The fact that it is not working right now with a two-track policy towards Russia is quite clear. Now there is only one track: total condemnation. That's it. Nevertheless, I believe that caution should be exercised in condemning two-track policy as a method. I have a question for Kerstin Lundgren. The Moderates want Sweden never to sign a nuclear ban. How does the Center Party view this? Do you agree with the Moderates that Sweden should never sign a nuclear ban?
i-G3kyyrd8zMMmWghSf7ELuP	Madam President, I would like As far as the two-track policy is concerned, we have had a one-track policy. What we need to see is that we do not have common interests in a wide range of other areas if the country we are talking to all the time has an interest that is in focus and uses all the different elements to get its ambition fulfilled. That is something you have to be aware of. A two-track policy cannot be pursued when the other party has a one-track policy. It's not working. It becomes unclear, and it has also helped to send out wrong signals. The only signal that has been heard – and that is the great shock – is that the West only cares about the economy, that it is business issues that are in focus and that everything else is subordinate to this. It is therefore important to reflect on this. This does not mean that you should not have talks, it does not mean that you should not have trade and it does not mean that you should not support civil society, for example. But one must be aware and not believe that there are different ways of holding conversations if the other has a path from which to proceed. That's what I'm talking about. With regard to nuclear bans, nothing on our part must help create uncertainty for Sweden. Swedish security goes first. We would like to see a world without nuclear weapons and weapons of mass destruction. That would be amazing. But we're not there. Then the NPT is the central track for us. There's also the nuclear weapons states.
i-WfG5aett41kTUHQpoMoXGd	Madam President, I would like What Kerstin Lundgren describes as relations she clearly thinks you can have with countries such as Russia and China – of course apart from Russia in this situation – still sounds to me very much like a two-track policy: to have dialogue, to express criticism and to cooperate with civil society, while also engaging in trade in the normal case. Then I welcome the fact that Kerstin Lundgren states that the Center Party wants to see a nuclear-free world. Then I also hope that Kerstin Lundgren and the Center Party in the future together with us Social Democrats and hopefully other parties here in the Swedish Parliament can find ways to a sustainable and functioning nuclear ban. I do not believe that the present nuclear ban convention is. There is a wide range of things in the text of the Convention that are unexplained, unclear and unsolved. It absolutely must be resolved. If it becomes an up-to-date text of that Convention or an entirely new nuclear ban convention, then the future will well be the end of it. Nevertheless, I welcome the position of Kerstin Lundgren and the Center Party that it is a nuclear-free world that they want to see. That is what we Social Democrats want to see too.
i-MEqunkNGNtMazbinJu24d4	Madam President, I would like The two-track policy must not reflect the fact that we have common interests here. We have always had discussions about what our common interests are with Russia when we talk about energy issues. They want to sell, and they want to make sure that energy is used to influence. What are our common interests with them when we want to move on to a different approach? You have to be clear that these are not two different tracks. It is an important signal issue not to turn human rights into a single track and democracy and everything else into a different track. They belong together and must go hand in hand if they are to be effective. Another aspect of the discussion on nuclear issues and bans is that we do not perceive a ban convention as a way forward. It's not a way forward. It is not a good solution to anything but possibly for those who want to pursue placard politics. What we see is that it is not one of the nuclear powers that participate – either Britain or France, if we take those close to Europe, but also the other big ones or those who have not recognised that they have nuclear weapons. Madam President, I would like Today we see how Putin threatens to use nuclear weapons. He threatened after Crimea that he was prepared to use nuclear weapons if he couldn't get what he wanted through there. Now he's threatening again. I have not heard either Putin, Lavrov or anyone else say: we have a nuclear convention that prohibits the use of nuclear weapons. It's not a way forward. Try to see that it is the NPT that is the way forward – if it holds!
i-NFGQXgC1XoPgMV7tqbcCJT	Madam President, I would like It has been a long time since it was as uncertain as now in the world and especially in our neighbourhood. It is a world of three great powers, and one of them, an authoritarian, fascist cleptocrat in Putin's Kremlin rule, has militarily invaded its neighbour country, the democratic republic of Ukraine. The Russian invasion of Ukraine is unprovoked, illegal and indefensible. The attack is a violation of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine and represents a great human suffering to the Ukrainian people. It is an attack on Europe's peace and the current security regime that we will never tolerate. Something that makes the world more uncertain and that can actually destroy and destroy our entire planet is the threat of nuclear weapons. Today, there are nine countries that hold nuclear weapons. The use of a nuclear weapon alone would have far - reaching consequences for our world. We have already seen during this war how the Putin regime has used the nuclear threat verbally on several occasions, directly against Ukraine, but also against us countries that are on Ukraine's side. Sometimes there is a discussion about the use of so-called small nuclear weapons. Nothing could be more false and wrong. Nuclear weapons are weapons of mass destruction that kill a lot of people and have an impact on a large area. The two nuclear weapons used by the United States over Hiroshima and Nagasaki were, based on what is today in the arsenals, relatively small. Nevertheless, they had massive consequences and should never have been used. If Putin Russia makes its nuclear threat a reality, the world will see to it that those responsible are punished and condemned forever. That is why it is so sad that Sweden has not signed and ratified the UN Nuclear Weapons Convention and that in this House there is a mythical picture of what the Convention's function and content are. In a troubled time like this, one might think that more politicians and parties should stand up for the idea and the goal of a nuclear-free world, not counter it with beaks and claws. In Parliament we have a camp that wants to defend nuclear weapons at all costs and preferably put Sweden under a nuclear umbrella so that nuclear weapons are also at risk of being used in our name. We have a group of velare, which is fundamentally against nuclear weapons but which, at the same time, wants to keep all the doors open and is therefore also prepared to give legitimacy to the proponents of nuclear weapons rather than to counter nuclear weapons. Then there are those of us who actually stand up for a nuclear-free world and who are clear that such a world is possible. Many countries across our globe have joined this idea and together created and pushed for the UN Convention against Nuclear Weapons. It is a convention that does not normalise nuclear weapons as a legitimate weapon in war, which makes the holders a deviant and does not contradict the idea of non-proliferation, test stops or anything else that we do to prevent nuclear weapons. It is a convention for a more peaceful world. But it is not only the Convention that Sweden can sign up to and thus make a difference. In an uncertain time, we can also pursue the demands for nuclear-free zones. These already exist in large areas, especially in the southern hemisphere. Sweden should act to make Europe and the Middle East nuclear-free zones. It would make a real difference for many millions of people. A few decades ago, it would probably have been obvious for a country like Sweden to accede to the Nuclear Weapons Convention. It's not anymore. Our strength has been eroded, and we stand today with a half-measures of our once-clear foreign policy and line of peace. As an independent and military non-aligned state, Sweden should of course be one of the countries that take a stand against nuclear weapons through the Convention. Sweden should ratify the UN Nuclear Ban Treaty without delay. Madam President, I would like At this point, I hope that the government has a focus on developments in Ukraine. And it is easy to forget at this point the great world political event that occurred last summer when the Taliban again took power in Afghanistan after 20 years of Western failure. The Afghan people have suffered badly and are still the great losers who are once again forgotten by the outside world. Ever since the devastating weeks of August and September, we have heard from the government that it wants to evaluate Sweden's very comprehensive effort in Afghanistan. Not in any other country has Sweden had such a large military force for so long and given as much assistance and democracy support as to Afghanistan. They fell apart in a few weeks when the United States got tired of their failed company. Because the failure in Afghanistan should certainly not be blamed on the Afghan people. We in the opposition were already making an announcement in September. Then we held back precisely because the government showed good will and listened to our arguments. But something happened along the way. When Afghanistan disappeared from the agenda, the issue was forgotten. That is why it is good that the committee should make it clear that we are not content with vague oral promises from the government that are not being fulfilled but require concrete action. That is why we are now forcing the government to come back with an evaluation based on the criteria that Parliament today sets out. Madam President, I would like Today in Sweden there is a slippage towards NATO which the Left Party has long criticised. The so-called host country agreement reduces the credibility of our military alliance freedom without providing guarantees for increased military security for Sweden. On the contrary, NATO forces on Swedish territory are increasing the tension in our neighbourhood. With the increased proximity to NATO, Sweden risks being drawn into devastating wars and conflicts. With the host country agreement there is an imminent risk that Sweden will be forced to hold nuclear weapons on Swedish soil. Nuclear weapons are a central part of NATO's military strategy. Sweden has not requested any exemption or clarification in the agreement itself. There is a risk that nuclear weapons can be placed on land or can be used in Swedish territorial waters and docks. Sweden shall not be a light member or a member of the NATO military alliance. It's not good for our safety. Madam President, I would like The Left Party has for a long time had a clear policy and view of the negative developments in Russia under Putin's regime. On many occasions we have noted that the Putin regime in Russia poses a security policy threat, first and foremost to all those in Russia who oppose the regime or who do not fit in with the society that Putin wants to build. For Russian LGBTQ people, feminists, indigenous representatives, environmental movements and leftist activists, their own regime is a daily security threat. Russia's imperialist policy also poses a direct threat to the population of several neighbouring countries. We see this in Ukraine, Belarus, Georgia, Moldova and the countries of Central Asia. Thirdly, Russia poses a direct military threat to us and our neighbours. It is a threat that should not be underestimated, but that should be countered and prevented. Tomorrow, the security talks will begin. It is good that they come into being. We must now turn all the stones to both strengthen and clarify Sweden's security policy line and at the same time contribute to deescalation in our neighbourhood. A concrete, clear example of what could be done is that I think that Sweden and Finland should pronounce and make it clear that Swedish-Finnish military cooperation also means continuing to maintain Åland as a demilitarised zone in accordance with the centennial Åland Service. It is important that this is also stated. The threats to Sweden are now increasing in an increasingly troubled environment and in our neighbourhood. The risks of cyber attacks and radiation from nuclear power plants and nuclear weapons in our neighbourhood have increased in real terms in recent weeks. The climate threat, pandemics and other civilian threats are also increasing. While a direct military attack on Sweden remains unlikely, it cannot be ruled out. The Left Party opposes Sweden becoming a pawn in the great power game. Sweden must work for detour and disarmament. As a military non-aligned state, Sweden has previously had great international confidence in leading peace negotiations. It should be our goal to regain that role. Peace is best built by peaceful means. I request the approval of reservation 9.
i-EKhff9UaG1goczH186KTAu	Madam President, I would like Sometimes world history takes years to change. Sometimes world history changes every minute. We are now in such a time with Russia's invasion on 24 February 2022 and war on Ukraine. On 16 February, we had a foreign policy debate in this House. It's not been a very long time. At that time, Håkan Svenneling developed the Left Party's views. I believe – correct me if I am wrong – that it was in a change of line with Kerstin Lundgren that the Warsaw Pact was dismantled as the Left Party regretted that NATO did not do the same at the same time. I see there's a school class in the gallery. I will therefore tell you that it should be remembered that the Warsaw Pact was something that the Soviet Union forced other countries to join. It was a mandatory war alliance. NATO is a joint peace treaty to which countries voluntarily and independently subscribe. Has Håkan Svenneling and the Left Party changed their view that NATO should have been abolished? It is NATO that the Ukrainian people are appealing for help with soldiers and, above all, a flight ban when Russia is today raining a rain of bombs and missiles, of death, on Ukraine. Where is the Left Party in the struggle for death and life now being waged in Europe between the free Ukrainian people and Putin's troops?
i-Dzt9epmhvXJh1beVwqUfZG	Madam President, I would like In the relatively short time since the foreign policy debate, I have been in a road accident and therefore have some challenges in remembering everything that has been said and done. But I'll do my best. We can continue the history lesson for the school class. After the Second World War, it was in fact NATO, not the Warsaw Pact, that was formed first. The Warsaw Pact was the Soviet Union's response to the military armaments they saw from NATO. It was in many ways a disgusting time precisely because of the Cold War, the Great Power War, that arose between two different parties. Borders were drawn, and countries were marked in different colors. We should remember that Sweden, together with Finland, was then seen as neutral states that were not part of any of the two military alliances. What happened in the '90s was basically good. The Berlin Wall fell, and the Soviet Union collapsed. There were good opportunities for deescalation around the world. Much also happened in the last years with the Soviet Union and during the 90s. When the Warsaw Pact was dissolved, it was a good day for humanity. What I and the Left Party think is that it would have been reasonable then to proceed with the dissolution of NATO as a military alliance. But it is clear that NATO chose a different direction. More countries were taken in and some were also selected for rehabilitation. That way, too, was sometimes chosen to violate international law. These are the things Russia is now using when they commit these crimes. That is what I mean by NATO's problem here. I think it is entirely Putin himself who is responsible for the war in Ukraine. He's the one who started it. He's responsible. But he can do so by pointing out things that NATO has done in history.
i-Uoh1UrUK99gNtoANtRMzFj	Madam President, I would like Håkan Svenneling argues as some criminals do in relation to victims. I wasn't supposed to have done this criminal act, but I was so provoked by something. But you can't really reason that way. Madam President, I would like I'm going to continue my history lesson. I now turn from the class directly to Members of this House. What happened after World War II was that the Communists, the Soviet Union, were subduing land after country, including East Germany. Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania were incorporated. Hungary was made a paratrooperate. Romania and Bulgaria were also affected. It is clear that when tanks rolled into European capitals, Western democracies reacted in a very natural way: V i must have a defence alliance so that tanks do not roll into our country too. Today Putin Charkiv attacks, Mariupol and Kiev in the same way. I therefore share the view that it was a good day when the coercively crafted Warsaw Pact was abolished. But I do not share the view that it would be a good day if NATO were also to abolish the so-called 'on the contrary'. A good day would be the day that Sweden joins NATO, Madam President. Nevertheless, I have to ask the important question: does the Left Party not see the big difference between a defence alliance made up of free democracies and independent states that say, "One for all, all for one", and Russia and its military power?"
i-5Uv4YHCQJNeSCggz4brXTw	Madam President, I would like Of course you can tell the difference. There are a lot of perfectly reasonable friends who are in the NATO military alliance. Even a left-wing Prime Minister sits and represents Iceland in NATO context. We also have good neighbours who are present, including our Norwegian neighbours whom we met yesterday. However, I think that the Moderates in their eagerness to join NATO forget several important things that NATO also stands for. In my speech, I mentioned nuclear weapons. There are also many other problems with Article 5. We see that there is a risk as to who will become the next President of the United States, who is de facto the leader of NATO. It is included, as it were, in the hegemony and sphere of interest of the United States when it joins NATO. It could be Trump leading that sphere in 2024. At any rate, it is not entirely unbelievable from what we have seen during the previous presidency. There's also a guy named Erdo中an. He leads Turkey, which is NATO's second largest power. He has started war and has for a long time been involved in various military conflicts in his neighbourhood. The fact that he has managed to make himself a peacemaker in this situation shows how absurd the world is when Sweden, Finland or any other country does not succeed in taking that role. If the USA is the largest military power and Turkey is the second largest, I find it very difficult to understand why it wants to join NATO. I don't think I would have had any problems if it were a collaboration with Nordic countries or with friends with whom we have good fellowship, but NATO is not such an association. It is a military alliance built on nuclear threats with states with which I do not want military cooperation. I believe that Ukraine has also drawn this conclusion and that this is why we are now seeing some positive signals that there can be peace if Ukraine declares itself to be a neutral state.
i-XYo9cvrNKXmzjUY2J9Q5t	Madam President, I would like The Soviet Union was well founded in the form of compulsorily-affiliated states. That should be the starting point of the discussion also for Håkan Svenneling and the Left Party. Quite rightly, during the foreign policy debate, we had a discussion on NATO, and I heard then that Håkan Svenneling felt that NATO should have been dissolved. However, Madam President, it was not just mentioned, but we also discussed Article 42(7) of the Treaty on European Union. I heard Håkan Svenneling say that the Left Party did not like it, and it had not supported the Treaty of Lisbon. This, too, was not a road for the Left Party. Now it is said that we should not have different collaborations with states that have nuclear weapons. Does the Left Party want Sweden to terminate the bilateral agreements we have with the United States? In that case, there is a risk that we will have a bilateral agreement without any institutional superstructure. Anyone can be president after Biden. Should we cancel this? Or is it better to go in and have an international superstructure as NATO membership would mean? Does the Left Party wish to terminate the bilateral agreement with the United Kingdom? How does it contribute to security in Sweden and in our neighbourhood? I hear Ukraine, too. Zelenskyj says: NATO's door is open, but we cannot come in. But they want to come in, and they want guarantees. They hope that the EU can possibly offer them this. Where's the Left?
i-DSf6pHbDQA6164dKvFUJic	Madam President, I would like Yeah, where's the Left? Ukraine is allowed to make its own security policy choices. That is what makes this war so disgusting: Putin is trying to make sure that they cannot make their own security policy choices. That is why we condemn the war in essence, and I am very pleased with the sharp response that has come from the outside world in the form of sanctions. They seem to be producing results and increasing the pressure on Russia to come to the negotiating table. I hope that this will be the way forward, rather than continuing the human suffering that reaches us every day via the news media. It's good that we start security policy talks tomorrow. Then the parties can talk to each other and find agreement on how we can clarify, improve and deepen Sweden's security policy line so that it is clear towards our surrounding world. I think we have ended up in a situation where there is a certain lack of clarity as to what the difference between parliament and government is. The political debate not only contributes to creating a good dialogue and a dialogue, which, for example, does not exist in Russia, but it also contributes to a certain lack of clarity as to what Sweden's position is. That is why I am fundamentally in favour of these talks. We in the Left Party have been very clear about how we view military cooperation. Together with the Center Party, among other things, we made sure that there was a letter from the Riksdag about the military cooperation that the government has entered into during Peter Hultqvist's time. In it we criticise a number of the bilateral collaborations that we think Sweden should not have entered into. Having said that, however, we mean that defence cooperation with Finland is basically very good. I hope that we will discuss Finland and the Nordic countries in the talks that we are now going to hold and discuss how we can best find ourselves in the position that I think we should have, that is, a military, non-aligned Sweden that stands up for peace and a more peaceful environment than we currently have.
i-2FKaCXASzNm262iQHoFmaK	Madam President, I would like In his answer to Hans Wallmark's questions, Håkan Svenneling mentioned that NATO included more countries. But, Madam President, it was countries that really wanted it. If Ukraine had a choice, they would opt for NATO membership today – or the day before yesterday. That is the choice they want to make, because they feel they need guarantees. After all, they have a neighbour who has now invaded them and terrorizes the population on a daily basis. They do not have the resources to resist this, and they have no guarantees from anyone. Nor do I hear that Håkan Svenneling wants to give guarantees to Ukraine. Do Håkan Svenneling and the Left Party now want to give arms to Ukraine?
i-GFZEB6yiUpxb8pqKGAVdnd	Madam President, I would like It is sad that the Swedish right is unable to have any kind of criticism of NATO. It is confident that it hopes for a Swedish NATO membership and does not see the problems that exist with the decisions that NATO has taken over the last 20 to 30 years. We could have been in a different situation from what we are in today. That said, Putin is responsible for this war. It is his fault, and he is to blame for it, not NATO. Kerstin Lundgren asked a question about the Left Party's view of arms supply. I agree that it has not been quite clear. We chose to have our own reservation on the armored bulkheads when we voted on this in Parliament two weeks ago. Unfortunately, I was unable to attend because I was in the hospital. However, the party board chose the day after voting because we can consider supporting future arms deliveries. We will analyse the proposals that I hope will come to Parliament's table by means of proposals from the government and not by means of committee initiatives and the most rapid routes that were taken last time. It undermines our guarantee if the Riksdag does not get good enough processes to discuss, make decisions and have a media debate on the proposals put on the table by the Government. There were five members from the Committee on Finance who tabled the proposal on Parliament's table. I do not think it is really constitutionally right. I hope there will be a better order next time.
i-6CNDTRSNshDyAmFAmYaVjs	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2. I would also like to highlight the special opinion on the UN Convention on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, which the Christian Democrats have together with the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats. In total, about a hundred requests for motion form the basis of the report we are debating today. The topicality of debates such as this has shifted over time. Basically, it has always been about how we as a nation best protect security and security. This is also the case today, and it does so in a way that few of us thought would be the case just a few weeks ago. In lightning we see how the Russian invasion of Ukraine has changed the conditions for security policy. The change is dramatic. The shift is historic. The Associations bring us back to the darkest chapters of European history. Madam President, I would like On September 30, 1938, British Prime Minister Chamberlain returned to London after negotiating with Adolf Hitler in Munich. Together with the political leaders in France and Italy, Chamberlain had given the green light for the German integration of the Sudet German territories in Czechoslovakia. The Prime Minister was greeted as a hero. With him to waiting crowds he had a non-aggression pact signed by him and Hitler. The risk of a big war was considered averted. Chamberlain spoke of peace today. But then opposition leader Winston Churchill raised a finger of caution. In a speech to the British Parliament, he said that Britain and France in Munich had to choose between war and disgrace. He added: They chose disgrace, they will have war. Some six months later Germany entered Czechoslovakia. In September 1939 Poland was invaded. Madam President, I would like Without dramatizing or exaggerating, the free world today faces a situation similar to that of 1939. Although the West has not chosen disgrace, although the USA, the EU and NATO are united behind diplomatic efforts and extensive sanctions, we have had war. The risk is that this is just the beginning. Sweden is in this serious situation without guarantees of outside aid in the event of a military attack. In this respect, we are in the same situation as Ukraine. We are because the Social Democrats are blocking the issue of Swedish membership of NATO. A resourceful political party, according to the self-image of eternal government-bearing and master of decision-making, is unable to gather behind what is best for the country. With regard to the question of Swedish membership of what is today the European Union, the division within the Social Democracy was evident for decades. With regard to the party's security positions and NATO opposition, the hollows and shortcomings are being exposed now. The Russian war of aggression against Ukraine and the brutal abuse of the Ukrainian people constitute serious violations of humanitarian law and the laws of war. At the same time, the European security regime and the basic conditions for our security are being challenged. Over a night, the security policy line of the Social Democrats has been overplayed. The freedom of the alliance is obsolescence, and the rearmament of military defence is a top priority. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats have over the years welcomed Sweden's bilateral defence cooperation, mainly with Finland, the United States and the United Kingdom. At the same time, we have pointed out that none of these cooperations answers the central question of what happens if our country is attacked militarily. The almost carefree response of the Social Democrats to this has been that freedom of alliance has served Sweden well and that there are risks of changing the security policy line. It may seem sensible to emphasise the importance of prudence and long-termness in security policy. At the same time, a Swedish NATO membership would not mean any change in the security policy line. That would be a clarification. As far as risks are concerned, no advanced analytical ability is required these days to see where the real wave is. Is it something that the invasion of Ukraine teaches us is that an individual nation can have support from all over the world but still stand alone in the defense against a merciless aggressor? Madam President, I would like Europe is facing a new and ominous development. This is illustrated, among other things, by the fact that regime representatives in Moscow are now openly talking about Sweden as part of a Russian sphere of influence. In the same spirit, statements are made that a Swedish or Finnish NATO membership would lead to political and military reactions from the Russian government. The message is clear: Putin is putting an end to further expansion of NATO. Now it is not in Moscow that Sweden's security political affiliation and future are decided. It is and remains in our own country. Nevertheless, in the situation that has arisen, it is necessary not only to see what is happening but also to act accordingly. The Finnish Social Democracy's responsible attitude and clear intention to keep the door open for NATO membership should serve as a model for the Social Democrats in Sweden. In the face of the immenseness that is now taking place, political insight is needed, but also the ability to reconsider previous positions and draw the necessary conclusions. Judging by opinion polls in both Sweden and Finland, the general public is aware of this in both countries. Reality has caught up with the doctrinal opposition of the Social Democrats to NATO membership. If this were merely a party matter, the issue and its irresponsible handling could depend. Unfortunately, however, the political realities are such that the Social Democrats are actively hindering a directly decisive position for our country as a whole. Madam President, I would like Continued uncertainty about what happens in a possible attack on Sweden lowers the threshold for an attacker and increases the risk of a military conflict. Against this background, clarification of Sweden's security policy line is necessary and necessary. In consultation with Finland, a political declaration of intent is needed, meaning that Sweden wishes to become a member of NATO. This should not happen after lengthy investigation and analysis of the appropriate time, and not after the Social Democrats have further delayed the issue. A membership process needs to start now, immediately. This does not mean that Sweden contributes to uncertainty and destabilisation in Europe. This means that clarity is created and that the war criminals in the Kremlin are told what they do not want. Madam President, I would like The policy which has far too long kept our country outside the defence alliance of Western democracies should be relegated to history.
i-HuLCmLZSUAF9Mtgj1y5KZN	Madam President, I would like I understand, Lars Adaktusson, that life in opposition at times can be both frustrating and bitter – believe me. I've spent eight years in opposition and almost twelve years in the majority, so that's almost half-half. This contradicts the image that Lars Adaktusson paints of the eternal reign of the Social Democrats. That's not how it works. Sweden is a democracy, and we change the government from time to time after general elections. That's how it's supposed to be. We hope, of course, for different outcomes in the forthcoming elections this autumn, and we will see how it goes. We have different views on the NATO issue, and it is not about any partisan affairs or tactics. It is about us seeing differently what can be good for Sweden's future, and that is why we represent different political parties. I have respect for Lars Adaktusson's view that Sweden should join NATO. I don't share it, but I respect that view. And I actually ask Lars Adaktusson to have respect for the fact that it is meant to be honest when we say that we do not think that Sweden should join NATO. You can come to different conclusions, even within the same party family. Swedish Social Democrats have one vision and Norwegian Social Democrats another. Lars Adaktusson's sister party in Austria has a different opinion from Lars Adaktusson. What's wrong, Lars Adaktusson, about thinking, doing an analysis and going along with Finland in the NATO discussion?
i-KJ3aAtVjwreqRQ4SVrPCub	Madam President, I would like There is nothing wrong with going along with Finland; it is extremely important. Although we disagree on the issue of membership, we agree that this should happen. The process that is now taking place in both Finland and Sweden should take place in parallel, and we should of course consult and work closely with Finland. The problem with dealing with the NATO issue by the Social Democrats is that it refers to history. You don't look forward; you don't see the present. You can't see what's happening in Ukraine right now. We do not see what happens to a non-NATO country and how Ukraine is left alone because it does not have NATO membership. We must draw conclusions from this. We need to see what the danger and risk to our country looks like. This aspect and starting point are far more important than the moods of the Social Democracy. It is no secret that there are different opinions within the Social Democracy. We've seen it lately, and we've seen it before. It is still an inability that lies at the bottom when you cannot gather behind what is so obviously best for the country. Kenneth G. Forslund respects my opinion. I respect him, and I respect his opinion. But I question a policy that does not put the best of the country above the best of the party.
i-96cJgvvo3ZGnC1XnDELzv9	Madam President, I would like For us, it is not, Lars Adaktusson, about putting Social Democracy's best interests first. It's about putting the best interests of the country first. We see different paths, at least this far, when it comes to how it should be done. Looking forward and drawing conclusions – yes, we absolutely must do that of what is happening right now. That is why we should have the talks that the government has now invited. It is about looking forward and thinking about how we can keep Sweden safe and peaceful in the future. Is it because Sweden and Finland get a NATO membership and a 300 km long border between NATO and Russia? What does that lead to? Is it by being part of a defence alliance that builds its strategic planning on the possession of nuclear weapons by some Member States? I am very hesitant about that, and I have been for a very long time. I believe that there is also an overbelief in what NATO is. NATO is not a substitute for having its own defence. Sweden must have a strong defence of its own. We are building this up right now, and we have made wise political decisions in rather broad agreement here in the Swedish Parliament to do so. I hope that we too will be able to continue to do so. As a researcher from FOI, I think it was, said the other day in Aktuellt: It is not that NATO has a large shining combat machine and military machine standing and waiting. NATO is based on the resources of individual Member States. We must be able to defend ourselves even if we were to be members of NATO.
i-8KF2BVc92pw1GzptzfrmT7	Madam President, I would like Kenneth G. Forslund is breaking open doors. The Christian Democrats have wanted to invest more in defence than the Social Democrats have done, and we want to do so now. We, if any party, realise that Sweden needs a strong defence. In that part, there is no ambiguity. In the case of nuclear weapons, as has been said here in the debate, Sweden is largely basing its defence on cooperation with states that have nuclear weapons: the United Kingdom, the United States and France. It is something we have chosen, which we have welcomed and which is absolutely necessary. In these contexts, I have not heard either Kenneth Forslund or other social democrats talk about the problem of nuclear weapons. So why should it be problematic precisely when it comes to full Swedish NATO membership? What NATO membership does, Kenneth G Forslund, is to answer the question: What happens if Sweden ends up in an armed conflict and if we are attacked? Today there is no answer to that question, all the defence cooperation that we have in spite of. In spite of this, we also lack what is most important, namely treaty guarantees for defence. Governments come and go, and politicians come and go. However, the defence guarantees laid down in the Treaty remain. And if it is something that the crisis now shows, it is that we need guarantees, that we need to build our security together and that we need to be part of the defence alliance of Western democracies.
i-7BhzJGaeWYzhFm2Eq7V6rV	Madam President, I would like Thank you to those of you who have taken part in a good and important debate! Madam President, I would like Kenneth G. Forslund of the Social Democrats opened the debate today by stating that there is war in Europe. I would like to correct this point a little. Of course there is war in Europe, but it is also a war against Europe. It's an attack on us, too. Europe is not something that is somewhere far away. Europe is nothing but ourselves. We are Europeans, and the European security regime is under attack. The European idea of community is under attack. We're under attack. Europe is at war, and Sweden is part of Europe. This is not something that is happening anywhere else. Madam President, I would like I can also note after the debate that there are really only two parties that have not changed the line of security policy for many years. We have even discussed the NATO issue a great deal today. One party is the Left Party. They are still in favour of dissolving NATO, as they have been since Soviet times. The second party is the Liberals, who were the first party to want to join NATO. We've wanted it since the '90s. Our security policy line is solid. It doesn't wobble. On the contrary, we believe that what we now see with the war being waged against Europe and against Ukraine from Russia confirms what we have said for many years, namely that Sweden needs to be a member of NATO. Madam President, I would like It is not enough, like the Social Democrats, to say that we should spend 2% of the bnp on our defence here in Sweden. It is good that that message has come. It's a shame it's not up to date. We do not know when the Social Democrats will think of this, whether it is tomorrow or 50 years from now. It is a pity that it took so long for this message to come. It is also a pity that it is almost rhetorically opposed to NATO membership. You need to spend 2% to be in NATO. On the Liberal side, we have said in 2024 as a timeframe. The Moderates have said 2025. If the Social Democrats are really willing to sit down and discuss this with a little more constructiveness, as they themselves put it, perhaps the 2025 Moderates would be an intermediate position between the Liberals in 2024 and the Social Democrats some time later in the future. For those of us who want Sweden to be a member of NATO, 2% of GDP to defence is also a step on the road to NATO membership. But if you do not think that Sweden should join NATO, you should want to spend even more money on the defence. It is true that one does not replace the other. But it is clear that the need for a very strong Swedish defence capability increases the more lonely we become. The more lonely we are, the more we have to cope ourselves because we simply cannot count on the help of anyone else. Madam President, I would like This has also been borne in mind by what is now happening in Ukraine and Europe. Ukraine has been about as close to NATO as Sweden is. It has had about the same relationship with NATO as Sweden has. Sometimes it may sound to the rhetoric of some parties like we are still so close to NATO, that we are so close to NATO countries, that we are still part of that family, so help will come if we need it. However, the example of Ukraine shows that it is not enough. One must also be a member of the NATO Defence Alliance. Madam President, I would like I was surprised, to say the least, when I listened to the debate and heard the Left Party say that, with our proximity to NATO, we are in danger of being drawn into war. The Left Party thus claimed that, with Sweden's proximity to NATO, we risk being drawn into war. That is a bizarre statement in the context we are in now, in the world that we are now seeing. Ask the Baltic countries: Is it the proximity to NATO or is it perhaps the proximity to Russia that makes you run the risk of being drawn into war? Question Ukraine: Was it the proximity to NATO or was it perhaps the proximity to Russia that led you to risk being drawn into war? It is a baroque claim that the proximity to NATO means that Sweden is at risk of being drawn into war. It is not NATO countries that are threatening our security. Everyone who looks at this debate understands that. Madam President, I would like I believe that the Left Party will have to back down on this position, just as it backed up on arms. Of course, Sweden will assist us in every way we can, and of course Sweden fits into the cooperation that is the NATO Defence Alliance. Madam President, I would like One thing that has been discussed a little too little in the debate today is Europe's dependence on Russian oil and gas. There the Liberals have been saying for many years, so you have heard it before, that there are two bad things about Russian gas: it is Russian, and it is gas. This is something that we have been right about and that more and more representatives of other countries and of parties in this House are doing. We need to screw the Russian gas and oil cranes. Our opposition to Vladimir Putin's regime in the Kremlin and the war aggressions that Russia is guilty of must also mean that we tighten the gas and oil cranes, because when we do not, we are in fact involved in financing the Russian war machine. Madam President, I would like Another issue in this report is that of Russia's strategy. It is a proposal that has come from the Liberals and is now being heard. It is about Sweden having to have a new and integrated strategy for Russia. Just as we have just taken a decision here in Parliament on a comprehensive strategy for China, we need a comprehensive and updated strategy for Russia. It goes without saying that for a country that is so close to us, that we have and have had many relationships with – interpersonal, between companies and diplomatic – but which we also live under a real threat from, we need a comprehensive strategy that takes in all the elements but which is also up-to-date. I am pleased that the Riksdag now seems to be joining the Liberals' movements and forms of order. Madam President, I would like I mentioned the funding of 2% for our own defence and the link with NATO. It should be added that although the long-term idea is that Sweden should join NATO all the time – however, I think it can happen in a very short time – this is not enough. We must give the Social Democrats the right – we must equip Swedish defence whether we are in NATO or not. There we have proposed that we take off the emergency reserve, i.e. money that actually exists, and spend 30 billion on Swedish defence already now. We should also spend 10 billion already now on further support for Ukraine. The support decided by the Parliament a while ago concerns a round of EUR 1 billion, so this is a ten-fold support. Madam President, I would like This debate began with a speech by which Kenneth G. Forslund recalled when he read the history books on World War II. Forslund said that then he learned about never again war. Of course it's a vision that all thinking people are up to. But when I read in the history books about both the Second World War and other conflicts, I also never again think of neutrality and never again of alliance freedom. It is clear that the Left Party was right to say here that peace is best built by peaceful means. But defense is actually best built with a strong defense. They don't stand against each other. Peace is being built by peaceful means, but when you need defence, you can't just engage in peaceful means. Then you also have to have defence skills. In fact, Sweden's freedom of alliance does not serve us well. It does not serve us well because we are alone. And Sweden's historical neutrality is actually a disgrace in our history books. You can't be neutral between good and evil. One cannot be neutral when the whole European idea and the whole European security regime are under attack. You can't be neutral when you stare evil in the face. You can't choose neutrality then. I'm totally committed to visions that we'll never have war again. I think everyone will. But I wish more people would agree that we should never again have neutrality and freedom of alliance. Neither Sweden nor humanity benefit from this. We remember the heroes who went to Finland to help defend them. We remember the heroes who helped refugees escape from the horrors of World War II. But we are ashamed that Sweden is trying to protect its neutrality. Madam President, I would like We dare to choose between Putin and Biden; we choose Biden. We also dare to choose between Russia and Europe and between Russia and the USA, for that matter. We stand by our security policy on a Swedish NATO membership.
i-RHRbqwxmRVKnDRtNL6tTUz	Madam President, I would like It is obvious that Joar Forssell is eager to debate rather than go to lunch, which is what I really want. But we're doing a little line shift, too. We can rely on the liberal argumentation and the NATO vortex. There is really nothing in Joar Forssell's world that points to anything other than that NATO is perfect and that everything is everyone else's fault. Even implying that there is a problem with NATO is obviously deeply problematic. I wonder if Joar Forssell slept during the presentations we had in committee. For example, we had Sweden's ambassador to Ukraine, who discussed the Ukrainians' view of their NATO approach and the consequences it has had in relation to the war that Russia has now started. I thought that was a fairly clear discussion of what the price of a NATO approach might be. I wonder if Joar Forssell made no impression at all. The second thing you react to is that Joar Forssell thinks it is a disgrace that we have been a peaceful country for over 200 years. I think it is shameful to think so. I mean, there's never going to be a war again. That's what we're going to achieve. We can have a political debate about which way we then choose so that there will be no war. However, I am interested in discussing another issue, namely the Liberals' second age-old proposals, in addition to NATO: the construction of nuclear power. You're so energetic. Just a little while ago, you went on an entourage trip and visited the Finnish nuclear power plants. Two things have happened since then with regard to nuclear power, and yet you have recently drawn a new lance on the pages of the debate. One is that a nuclear project in Finland has been stopped because it is owned by a Russian company, Putin Rosatom. The second is that Russia uses nuclear power plants strategically as a place to regroup its troops because it is known that Ukraine cannot attack at nuclear power stations. Does this have any impact on the liberals' dangerous view of nuclear power?
i-24YYMqQAGHEiAm3Ud7wMVy	Madam President, I would like I was going to start with the first two questions, which have a little to do with each other. The Left Party believes that Ukraine has paid the price for approaching NATO. I think this is, to say the least, hair-traveling. It is in fact a repetition of what the Left Party said earlier today in its speech: with our proximity to NATO, we are in danger of being drawn into war. But it is with the proximity to Russia that we are dependent on building security with others. It is in the vicinity of Russia, not with membership of NATO, that the Baltic States are currently concerned. It is in the vicinity of Russia that Ukraine is in the situation that it is now in. To spread this kind of Russian narrative, that one must choose neutrality instead of deciding one's own security and foreign policy, I think is hair-traveling. Madam President, I would like The Left Party Member suggests that I believe that we should not be proud that we have not been warlike for 250 years. Not being neutral is not the same as being warlike. I mean, we're supposed to be in the NATO Defense Alliance. It is about building peace with others by strengthening our defence. And I mean, Madam President, when others are subjected to the horrors of war, oppression and torture – all those things – one cannot be neutral. You should be ashamed if you are neutral in the face of other people's suffering. Then you have to act. That neutrality I mean that we should not be proud of, and that is what I criticise – that Sweden has been neutral when others have suffered.
i-Ciuc9ftmJCK5TQi9XBK6mm	Madam President, I would like No, I'm not spreading Russian narratives. No, I do not think Ukraine should pay any kind of rightful price. This is Putin's war. It's his fault the war started. The blame lies only with him, and I sincerely hope that one day we will have to judge the son of a bitch in the International Criminal Court for human rights violations. I hope that Joar and I will see that before we leave this earth one day. Having said that, it is important to see that one must be able to talk about what different types of assessments have for security policy implications for Sweden. I felt that the decision made by this Parliament while I was in hospital went too fast and was based on too poor a basis in terms of security policy. I hope that we will not take any more decisions that have a major security policy significance for Sweden because of a committee initiative from five members of the Committee on Finance. To think about what it means when we give arms support to Ukraine, which is in war, and what security policy risks this entails, I think is my responsibility as a member of the Swedish Parliament and its Foreign Affairs Committee. That is not to say that I think it is wrong or that I do not think we should give all the support to Ukraine. We should always be clearly critical of human rights violations. I believe that one can certainly be critical of human rights violations but still believe that we should be a military non-aligned state. Nevertheless, any human rights violations, regardless of who they are committed, where they occur and with what motives, can be criticised. I intend to do that to President Putin every day that he commits such crimes. There's a difference, and it's important to remember. I therefore hope that we will have clear security policy discussions during the security policy talks that will start tomorrow and that this will lead to clarification of Sweden's security policy line.
i-EuhRnaSNT2K1163ByqjSSY	Madam President, I would like The Left Party says that it wants to be critical and clear in its rhetoric. However, there is no agreement on proposals for clear practice and clear action. At that time they voted 'no' here in Parliament. Then there has been a back-up from this, but it remains firm that it thinks NATO should be dissolved. An organization that we are not even part of, therefore, should be dissolved. One wonders which other organizations we are not members of that the Left Party wants to dissolve. You talk about the risk of sending weapons. There's the Liberal line clear: we'll send the weapons needed. A Russian tank smaller, which is taken out of service with Swedish weapons, is a tank smaller that can threaten Sweden in the future. We have also, Madam President, come forward with proposals to send out much greater financial support, because it is clear that we must have both. But it doesn't work to just be critical in your rhetoric. It is also necessary to choose to act in practice. What Ukraine is showing is that it is not safe if you do not have friends that you have relations with and mutual guarantees with. Putin has been aggressive in his rhetoric even against NATO countries. But there we have not seen any land invasion as the one we see in Ukraine because you have friends. You have alliances if you are a member of the NATO Defence Alliance. Liberals' security policy analysis and policy line are therefore solid. We need NATO membership, because we belong in NATO together with others who share the view of security policy that each country should be allowed to decide its own security and foreign policy without being threatened by anyone else.
i-5ctKLhnMy3Bkuj9kHVMv86	Madam President, I would like A month ago, in this House, we debated Sweden's foreign policy line and the increasingly worrying security situation. Today, Putin's invasion war in Ukraine has been a reality for several weeks, and millions of people have already been forced to flee Putin's bombs and violence. It is almost an understatement to say that this is a very difficult security policy situation. Russia's illegal war in Ukraine, which violates the territorial integrity of Ukraine and threatens Europe's security regime, represents an enormous deterioration in security policy. It is already a humanitarian crisis with over 3 million displaced people. So far, however, we have seen a great deal of agreement within the EU on both sanctions against Russia and aid packages for Ukraine. Although Russia's invasion has hardly gone as planned, the attacks are still ongoing, and terrible reports are coming of bombed homes, children's hospitals and other destruction. There have also been battles near nuclear power plants. The further development is uncertain, but the risk is that things will get worse before developments turn around. Sweden and the EU will continue to support Ukraine in various ways. Since the 1990s, Sweden has been one of the world's largest donors in terms of various forms of aid to Ukraine, and we have recently provided financial, humanitarian and military support. In times of turmoil, aid is particularly important. We are already seeing how the rise in the price of bread in Sudan is creating protests, and famine in Yemen is in danger of worsening – all as a result of a shortage of raw materials due to Russia's war in Ukraine. Over 3 million people have so far fled Ukraine. The vast majority are women and children, and although the countries closest to Ukraine will receive the vast majority of refugees, it is important that the whole of Europe is involved in showing solidarity and helping with the reception of refugees. That is something that should be self-evident at a time like this and something that also affects the situation purely in terms of security policy. If the EU Member States were not to be able to cope jointly with the situation and ensure that people on the run are protected, but instead cannot agree or try to shift responsibility for the reception of refugees to others, it would only strengthen Putin. It is extremely important for us in Sweden at this point to send out signals that we will be involved in helping and taking responsibility for the reception of refugees jointly in the European Union with all the other Member States and not signal that we want to tighten up. This would put countries such as Romania, Moldova and Poland at risk of not being able to cope. We see a value in cooperating with other countries on defence and welcome enhanced cooperation with the UK and Finland and more exchange of information with NATO. We are already conducting military exercises with NATO countries. However, in the midst of a security policy crisis, changing the security policy line is very risky, and we do not yet know what the consequences would be. The Green Party does not believe that Sweden should join a nuclear alliance. The availability of nuclear weapons is one of the most serious security threats of our time, with the potential to completely wipe out mankind and other life on earth. That is why we are pushing Sweden to accede to the UN Convention on a Global Nuclear Ban and to work for a nuclear-free world. We need to increase the capacity and preparedness of the total defence, both in civilian and military defence. Without a well-functioning civil defence, military defence will not work either. The total defense is connected. We need to move from a just-in-time thinking to a just-in-case thinking with more preparedness in many different sectors. This calls for a proper strengthening of our emergency preparedness in areas such as healthcare, cybersecurity, access to water and food, energy and transport. In a very serious time we need better preparedness in Sweden and good cooperation with other countries. Now discussions are under way in the Defence Committee to renovate the military defence. The Green Party believes that it is also necessary to upgrade civil defence. As society as a whole is connected, the consequences of cyber attacks, for example, risk becoming devastating for many businesses. There is a risk that we will be more exposed to this in the future, given the security situation and Russia's actions. We may also be exposed in the near future to, for example, misinformation campaigns and cyber-attacks, as I said, and that is why we need to increase our capabilities there. The rearmament of military defence, which has been discussed in the Defence Preparation, will cost a great deal of money. All parties that support this must also explain how it is to be financed responsibly and in the long term. For the Green Party it is incredibly important that the increase does not go out on important investments that need to be made in health care, care and schools. Nor do we want this initiative to go beyond aid. While we are carrying out this rearmament of military defence and cooperating with other countries, it is counterproductive to continue to benefit Putin's war fund. So far, however, EU sanctions have not struck where they do the most evil for Russia, namely against Russian energy exports. Fossil fuels account for well over half of Russia's export revenues. The EU is Russia's most important energy market. EU consumption is crucial to the reconciliation of Russia's trade balance. That is to say, it is an economic precondition for the financing of the war in Ukraine. Right now, Europe is buying fossil energy from Russia worth EUR 600 million every day. The Green Party believes it is incredibly important that we do not continue to contribute to the financing of the war and want all imports of Russian energy into Sweden and the EU to be stopped immediately. We want the government to push for such a suspension of imports. With this, I would like to thank you for the debate and to express my support for reservations 3 and 9.
i-UvEDKGt37gvR38as5jRosc	Madam President, I would like I thank Maria Ferm for her speech. I think that Maria Ferm is addressing an important aspect that has been somewhat forgotten in the debate so far. It is about total defence planning and the importance of now equipping and strengthening our own preparedness. I hear Maria Ferm say that there is now a need for increased preparedness, defence efforts and civilian preparedness and defence. That's where we're in complete agreement. But I have a question. Several of us met with the Norwegian Foreign and Defence Committee yesterday in Parliament. In answers to our straight questions and in our dialogue, the message was clear: what they call district policy – our regional or rural policy – is at least as much security policy. If it is seen, it is how sleazy fuel prices and an increased inability to maintain and support large sparsely populated areas and rural areas with reasonable conditions to live, operate, live and produce food and ultimately achieve sustainable transport risks being a vulnerability to, for example, North Norway. It is now clear that Swedish farmers are not sleeping well. They are overcome by the fear of not knowing whether they can start spring use or not because of the flashing price of fuel. It is alarmed that it is soon impossible to carry out daily and existential transports necessary for fuel prices to run. Then my question to Maria Ferm is: Are you in the Green Party prepared to adapt the map to reality and do what you can to also ensure that Sweden does not fall under by falling fuel prices?
i-WBS7MaYDJoAyjHJ8VTtkbd	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Aron Emilsson, for raising the issue of civilian preparedness! This is crucial. The gravity of the situation will affect our society in so many different ways. Agriculture and food security are an important part of this. Both food supply and water supply are extremely important. We need to do more to ensure that we have better food security preparedness. It is about everything from how we grow and what we import to the issue of fertilizers and so on. Then, as you say, we need to see what the map looks like and what we can do to support different activities in this situation. For example, we propose various grants of SEK 20 billion. It is of course about people in sparsely populated areas, about agriculture and so on. Then you need to do this in a way so that you support where it is really needed and so that it is good for the environment. We think that the proposals that have come from others in the debate about, for example, giving direct payments to all car owners or changing the reduction obligation and actually increasing Russian oil dependence are bad, for a number of reasons.
i-YP2j323avFMkjkD2YG9SVE	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Ferm, for your answer! We hear that there is some openness to reconsidering positions to try to do what you can to secure Swedish preparedness. The only question is how far you are prepared to go to change the map after reality. To be honest, the aid promised by the government is small potatoes in this context. They do not suggest very far in this strained situation for the transport industry, the haulage industry, motorism, agriculture and the ability to train the voluntary corps – indeed, anything that can increase our readiness. Somewhere you have a choice to make. It seems to me that in some respects the Green Party is ready to reconsider positions. This has been done in the case of aid for armaments to Ukraine. It has been shown that we can reconsider the positions that have been very much held up in the past in a completely new security policy situation. It is still the case that if you are not prepared to touch the reduction obligation in Sweden and if you are not prepared to significantly lower the prices of fuel at the pump, you are making it more difficult to equip us in our preparedness. As I said, they do not know whether they can start Swedish spring farming to the extent that we can secure our own food supply. We do not know whether daily and existentially important transports to grocery stores and medical supplies can function as usual if these circumstances continue. And we know that many cannot rebuild and build up their stocks of essential fuel and fuel – they are not enough if this reality continues. Why are you not prepared to touch the reduction obligation and the direct price at the pump?
i-GNw3reDZxMMWd7YM6yfdNd	Madam President, I would like We also think it is important to have open eyes in this situation. You should have open eyes, keep your head cool and think about what you can do, precisely because there are so many consequences in society. But then we should not do something that is directly bad for the environment. We will provide support where it is needed in society, now that we are in the midst of a crisis. But we will also build a long-term preparedness. This coincides to some extent. We have been pushing for better preparedness in society, long-term sustainability and so on for a very long time. We have also tried to change society so that we have much more renewable and are less dependent on Russian fossil energy, which is positive for both the environment and security policy. It often goes hand in hand. If you are more self-sufficient and you invest more in renewables, you do not have to rely on authoritarian states that can use fuel or energy as a means of exerting pressure. Somewhere there is the problem as to why we have ended up where we have ended up. But as I said, we have also come forward with proposals for aid packages of 20 billion, precisely in order to deal with what we see as the emergency situation. Many people will experience an increase in the price of goods and difficulties in coping with the economy. This will affect many sectors. What we think is important is simply to come up with proposals that do not exacerbate this dependence. They should also ensure that people who are in the most need of support in this situation can also get it, so that you do not miss groups of people and instead put the money on the suväde.
i-EMmEVd9aw1fnZX4HELx63c	Madam President, I would like Every day is reminded of children to be picked up in preschool, older relatives who need a visit, tasks that need to be performed, a home that needs cleaning and everything else that belongs to everyday life, and luck is that. It is perhaps extra lucky now that it is easy that thought and consciousness are completely absorbed by the horrors that occur in our world. The thoughts are with the Ukrainian population – it is a great human suffering because of the Russian invasion in a country so close to us. At home, of course, we discuss the war and its devastation in everyday life around kitchen tables and in schools and here in the Swedish Parliament. We have almost been shocked, for example, by the Left Party's position in this House – not to be involved in supporting Ukraine along with the other parties in the Riksdag. Many have also been surprised by the Prime Minister's statement that NATO membership would destabilise the security situation when there is only one thing that destabilises the situation in the world, and that is Putin's Russia. But luckily, Madam President, neither strength nor weakness comes from words, but strength or weakness comes from ability or lack of it. There is now a lot of talk about that we should spend 2% of bnp on the Swedish defence. I think that and the Moderates are good, but that's also the percentage count. 2 percent of SEK 100 is SEK 2 and 2 percent of SEK 200 is SEK 4. It underlines something very important when we are discussing economic policy here today, because it is not just defence that we are funding as a share of GDP. From there, the money also comes to school, to health care and to care for the elderly. Madam President, I would like Taxes play a role in how big a bnp becomes. It's not just the percentage that's important. It is not only the size of taxes that affects the amount of tax revenue, but also their design. Of course, those with 20 meters of plank can build a six - by - four - meter [6 - by - 4 m] pasture. But you can also build a field that is 5 times 5 meters. The builder of a six - by - four - meter [4 m] pasture will receive 24 square feet [24 sq m], and the builder of a five - by - five - foot [5 m] pasture will receive 25 square feet [25 m], i.e. a larger field. It does not only matter how much taxes are or, for that matter, how large the tax bases are. It also matters how they are designed. In spite of the serious situation in the outside world, it is therefore important that we also discuss the tax system, how high taxes should be and how we should design the taxes that we should charge to the Swedish people. This affects the Swedish strength – not only our defence capabilities but also our ability to finance what is common and what is important. Madam President, I would like Tax policy in Sweden has unfortunately been unbalanced and often sloppy in recent years. It has had serious consequences for Swedish society, for Swedish households and for our common welfare. Unemployment is high. Only Spain, Italy and Greece have a higher unemployment rate than Sweden has. Since Magdalena Andersson entered the government policy, Sweden has lost 15 positions in the EU when it comes to unemployment. Had it not been for the sloppy and unbalanced policy for which Magdalena Andersson is ultimately responsible, Swedish public finances would have had SEK 40 billion more to use for what is common. We would have had at least 40 billion more if Sweden's economic development had followed the average development in the European Union, but we have performed much worse. Growth is also low. For the first time in a very long time, Swedish workers' wages fall. It is less profitable to go and toil in the care of the elderly or in the port or to go to any job, for that matter, because politics has not done its job. Inflation is high and public finances are weaker than in a long time. In fact, Sweden did not reach its public financial targets for a single year during the time that Magdalena Andersson was Minister of Finance and got through her budgets. We broke the surplus target every year. Madam President, I would like Tax policy is an important cornerstone of the way society works, which behaviours are encouraged and which behaviours become costly and thus disappear. Tax policy affects our ability to finance what is common. Tax policy is also important for us to manage to have high quality and efficiency in our common welfare. Tax policy also affects how profitable it is to invest and to run companies in Sweden and to work here. Today, many tax issues are on our table, and we will vote on them later this afternoon. There are, of course, different values in politics, and there is much at stake in the technical design of tax policy, for companies, for job creation and for growth. For me as a moderate– I know that this is also the case for many people listening to this debate at home– there is one principle that is more important than everyone else when it comes to the tax system, namely that it should always pay off to work. There are many people who get different types of defence here in politics. There are many stakeholder organisations that get politicians to deliver their messages. There are many interests, both legitimate and less legitimate, which have their voice heard through politics. But the most important person for society to function is the one who sets the alarm clock in the morning, goes up, goes to work, does his duty and then does the same thing the next day. That person not only manages his own livelihood but also contributes to what is common. More importantly, with his or her work effort, he or she makes life better for someone else. That's why it's central to me and the Moderates that it should always pay off to work. We are often attacked because we want it to pay more to work than to live on benefits, and is it not a great pity for those who live on benefits when it becomes more profitable to work? But that is not the case, Madam President, because if the work had not been there, there would be no money for subsidies either. That is why we want there to be lower taxes on labour so that more people go to work, more become taxpayers, fewer go into exclusion and crime can be pushed away. In the long term, there will be more money for what is common when more people are working. We are very concerned about the developments that are taking place in Sweden, Madam President, where the work line is gradually being dismantled in favour of more dependency on subsidies. The report contains several proposals from us Moderates and other parties that would in various ways strengthen Sweden's ability, ranging from our ability to defend ourselves to our ability to help others and finance our common welfare. It's about how the jobs will become more and how we will make it easier for more people to run and start a business or grow with new and exciting activities that will eventually make both the country and the world better. We will not be able to vote on everything this afternoon, and I would therefore like to conclude by calling for the approval of reservation 1 only.
i-Q3HnTjhFTYfyJF1EjaHMjT	Madam President, I would like I intend to discuss employers' contributions, which since 2009 have remained constant at 31.42% of the salary. The general salary contribution is taking increasing space from the employer's contribution. The general salary levy was introduced in 1995 to finance Sweden's membership of the EU and was then 1.5 per cent of gross salary. Today it has grown to 11.62% of the employer's contribution, but this is not because EU membership has become more expensive in any way. Instead, the general wage fee has been used as an accordion to keep the total employer's contribution at an unchanged level, i.e. 31.42%. Since the salary levy came in 1995, it has increased step by step. Someone said that so disappeared protection in the event of illness and unemployment. Employees give up pay to protect themselves in the event of illness and unemployment, but a large part of the money goes to others. Employers' contributions have become a cash cow that no government wants to give up, according to an analysis by Arbets reporter Mårten Nilsson. In 2006, the health insurance contribution was 8.64 per cent of the employer's contribution. Today it has fallen by about 5%, while the population has increased by about 2 million. In 14 years, 5,000 care places have disappeared, and there has been less money for elderly care, where the number of places has fallen by 40,000 in the last 20 years, of which 26,000 already before 2013. Madam President, I would like Despite price increases, elderly care seems to be the area where it can always be saved. There are staff reductions and shared tours, and it is more difficult to staff in the home service, with up to 14 staff in a patient for 14 days, untrained staff with language difficulties and staff without relevant training. There is no respect for the needs or wishes of the elderly, and all employees regardless of gender should be able to do the same things, without taking into account that the elderly owns their body and should be allowed to control it. The general wage levy should have been used for welfare, not to cover the state's need for more money. The income gap between men and women is still around 20%. If nothing is done about the gap now, it will not disappear for 100 years, according to the report on equal pay. It cannot be ignored that women give birth and that women's wages are lower than men's. Having the same period of retirement is to the detriment of women who give birth and care for relatives. The first child is born when the woman is, on average, between 28 and 32 years of age, and it is permitted for the woman to be at home part-time or otherwise until the child is eight years of age. Then her age will be 40, and at the age of 40 there will be ageism. That's when your career's running out. This is when you no longer invest in women, especially those who have been away for eight years. Of course, during the eight years they have been gone, their wages have not been increased as they should if they had worked on. Although the entry-level pay for men and women is the same and the pay gap is very small, it will still accelerate to an income gap of 20 per cent. Sweden is the country in the Nordic countries that has the most women living in relative poverty. The risk that disposable income can lead to poverty increases with age. Women over 75 years of age with low disposable income are most at risk. They have often been at home with children, helping with other things or working in low-wage jobs. Another factor is that every other woman lives alone while every fourth man lives alone. This means that women's income should be sufficient for more than if they live with someone else. Madam President, I would like The reference age has been raised from 61 years to 62 years this year, and it is proposed that the 2023 be raised to 63 years. The rich age should go away. The fact that there should be a rich age for retirement is strange. For example, if you started working at the age of 15, you are 55 years after 40 years of work. One may have worked in a laborious profession, perhaps worn out in the home ministry, and can no longer work. Nevertheless, you should wait until 62 years of age to claim your pension. It's a loss. There must be a flexible age limit for retirement. It's not possible to do the same for everyone. Those who have worn themselves out prematurely at work should be able to receive a decent pension. Otherwise, you can't live. Madam President, I would like Our children are our future. They have to pay for it. The fact that women taking care of children should have lower wages cannot be fair anywhere or for anyone.
i-8okzNiSELaRi8y4BhqjBwL	Madam President, I would like First of all, as others have done in this House today, I wish to express my deep concern and condolences to the citizens of Ukraine and my equally deep hatred of Russia's President Putin's war. Yesterday I listened to the Ukrainian ambassador, and I soon find no word for what is happening. Nevertheless, everyday life must continue, and today we are debating income taxes in this House. Taxes are one of the most effective instruments we have in terms of social development. From the Center Party we are clear that we control what we want more and less of with the help of taxes. But then there must also be real choice for consumers. Otherwise, there's no point in controlling. I think it is a good thing that the Center Party, both in the context of the alliance and in the January cooperation, has contributed to reducing the tax burden on both those who create jobs and on individuals. The reduction of taxes on low-income people and the reduction of taxes in areas where public services are lower than elsewhere is the impression of the Center Party's tax policy. Madam President, I would like This report contains many good proposals from both the Center Party and the other parties. In my speech, I would like to focus on some of the tax problems that need to be addressed urgently and which have become more important during this parliamentary term, both during the pandemic and now in connection with the Putin war in Ukraine. As I mentioned at the outset, taxes are an important instrument, but if they are wrong, they are legally insecure. We must then correct quickly. The Coronapandemin caused a great deal, for example, to cross-border commuters for tax purposes. Nordic border commuters who have worked from home during the pandemic have sometimes had to pay taxes in two countries. The social security system and unemployment insurance have found a solution to this problem. Although compensation and contributions for unemployment funds are different in different countries, a common solution has still been sought. A similar solution should also be introduced in the field of taxation. As far as I know, however, the government has not taken any measures to grant a derogation from what governs this, namely the Nordic Tax Agreement or the Öresund Agreement. It is unreasonable; it must happen. Madam President, I would like At the moment, we are discussing fuel prices and the reduction of environmental taxes in particular – quite rightly, given the despot in our eastern neighbour country. But then, when the world is reasonably normal again, we need to return to long-term thinking and work towards sustainable solutions to achieve climate goals. Then we need to continue to work towards a green tax shift where the polluter pays for his environmental damage and resources are used to reduce taxes on labour and entrepreneurship. Environmental taxes that are shown to have no or only a small environmental impact should either be switched towards a wider tax base or redistributed in order to have a stronger environmental and climate governance effect. There should also be a thorough review of taxes that discourage the transition to a more circular economy. Madam President, I would like The green deduction that the Center Party has pushed through means a tax reduction for work and materials when installing green technology. It has been very successful. My municipality of residence Nora was last autumn fifth in Sweden to take advantage of this deduction. Private individuals can more easily contribute to the transformation by investing in technologies that lower their own household's carbon footprint. We believe that the green cut should be broadened to accelerate the transition and that the deduction should include things such as investments in solar heat, energy efficiency measures, water-efficient products, smart home applications and conversion of cars to gas or ethanol. Madam President, I would like Women have a lower income than men. It distinguishes millions of people in one life, and it is partly because of a labour market that is not equal. That is why it is important that when we talk about tax cuts and implement reforms that involve lower taxes, we ensure that they are clearly targeted at those with the lowest income. The route deduction, which the Center Party was involved in pushing through, gives more women the opportunity to start businesses all over the country, leading to more women in leading positions and changing structures in the business world. There is a need to review the possibility of adjusting the ceiling in the box line upwards and including more services. This would mean an increase in demand. The tax credit has shown the positive effects of reducing tax wedges and increasing service provision. This is something the government has to keep working on. Madam President, I would like We must do everything we can to avoid tax evasion and uncertainty. When it comes to attention, we must act. For companies, long-term and transparent tax rules are always a priority. If we back up to 2009, there was a change of law that opened to invoice board fees through our own company under certain circumstances. We were driving the change in law because it broadened the possibility for companies to recruit competent external members of the board. The reform has worked very well and has been valuable – but no longer. Following a judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court in 2017, it is no longer allowed for board members to invoice their fees through companies. Instead, the fee must be paid as salary while the employer must pay the employer's contributions. The Center Party has pushed that law to be rewritten now that the Court has failed the Swedish Tax Agency's interpretation. In particular smaller companies, including growth companies, or companies outside cities and rural areas with less financial resources, are at risk of being severely affected. There is a joint reservation in the Committee on Taxation with the Members of the C, M, KD and L, and I ask for the approval of reservation 14. Madam President, I would like Other benefits and other preferential taxation are another area of legal uncertainty and need to be addressed. Since before, we have had problems with border drawing, where the Swedish Tax Agency suddenly believes that work machines, such as quadricycles, should be taxed preferentially. During the pandemic, we decided here to abolish preferential taxation for free parking and gifts, which was quite right. In the future, we should look at whether only environmentally-rated cars should be allowed to get rid of preferential taxation for parking. An electric car charge does not cost more than the fruit in the coffee room at the workplace, but if they are taxed preferentially, it costs administration to no avail. Finally, Madam President, when people are unable to take part in municipal services, as is the case in rural areas in a large part of Sweden, they must join forces in associations to coordinate, among other things, snow clearance, sanitation and water and sewage networks. I wonder why the cost of things that you yourself manage should land entirely on rural estates, while for people living in the city it is financed through the tax bill. We pay the same tax. Against this background, the government should review the possibility of introducing a deduction for contributions to community associations, a rural deduction. I'm in favour of reservation 36.
i-UMTqvYBRfzxMWg3mVwhmDJ	Madam President, I would like I just wanted to ask for the approval of Amendment No 2 from the Swedish Democrats. Thank you for the debate.
i-8LKwouEG76eLUYNHKarMk2	Madam President, I would like The first Vice-President and I are both from Gävleborg, and we know that at home in the port of Gävle right now there is a Russian ship owned by a company that is on the sanction list that the EU has established. Let me say that it is very strange that the Swedish Government is allowing this ship to enter a Swedish port. Sweden should be able to take precedence in the EU and not allow companies on sanction lists to enter Swedish ports with products such as aviation fuel, which this ship contains. Nevertheless, it is gratifying that there is a broad consensus in the Swedish parliament to stand behind the Ukrainian people against the aggression war that Russia wages against Ukraine. I do not believe that any of us could have foreseen what is happening, and it goes deep into our hearts. You see the suffering and fear of the people, how they lose their loved ones and how they flee for their lives. To this I would add that people fleeing from war are precisely people fleeing from war—no matter which country they are fleeing from. The debate that has been held about the fact that you are not a real refugee if you come from the war in Syria, for example, is so despicable that I do not find words. That is what some people say about the racism of some parties in this House that has characterised Sweden's policy for a long time. Having said that, Madam President, I would like to raise two reservations that the Left Party has in this report. One is about a distance-based travel deduction, and the other is about the preferential taxation of public transport cards. Both of our proposals are about promoting the climate. I would like to highlight reservation 19 in the report. The Left Party wants to change the travel allowance so that there is a distance-based travel deduction that benefits those who choose public transport and who have special conditions in the countryside in focus. Among other things, Norway, Denmark and the Netherlands have distance-based travel deductions with different conditions. Now a government proposal is finally on its way. We must say, at last, that even if we do not know the exact details in their entirety yet. We need to promote the development of a more transport-efficient society, and public transport passengers should not be disadvantaged as they are today. A more efficient and environmentally friendly system of travel deductions would be very welcome, and rural conditions should be at the heart of this. Our reservation 19 is that we want to abolish the preferential taxation of public transport cards. It would benefit the climate, equality and equality. At the same time, we believe that more effective control must be made of those who have free parking at their workplace. We can well say that preferential taxation is rather poor as it stands today. It was a good thing that preferential taxation was abolished during the pandemic – that was what we were doing – but if we look at this outside the pandemic, we can see that about 20% of those who have free parking at work are taxed preferentially for it. It can therefore be said that Sweden's policy favours multi-stage driving while public transport is at a disadvantage. This means that more people take the car to work, because it is actually subsidised. The incentives to take the car instead of the bus or metro are increasing, which is contrary to what we actually need to do for the climate. At the same time, we must be aware that many of those who take the car do not have an alternative either. We must, of course, ensure that they do not have unfairly heavy taxation of their free parking, not least with regard to certain professions. Sloped preferential taxation would increase the attractiveness of public transport. Estimates have been made to show what the abolition of preferential taxation of public transport cards would mean. The cost of a card could be reduced by just over 50%, and public transport travel would increase by nearly 1 million person kilometres per year. Greenhouse gas emissions would also be significantly reduced. That is why we think it is right and important to abolish the preferential taxation of public transport cards provided by employers. Madam President, I would like However, reading the report is quite fascinating. After all, I am a new member of the Committee on Taxation and I have not been present before, but one can say that the report is a glutton in proposals from the right to reduce taxes. There is no idea that welfare is to be financed and that we need more employees and better employment conditions in healthcare, school and care. The shortcomings in care and care for the elderly, which were exposed very clearly during the pandemic, also seem to have disappeared completely. Some of us remember Bo Lundgren, the old party leader of the Moderates. He had a solution to all the problems; that's what he was best known for. All the problems would be solved with reduced taxes. He was asked why children's groups were so large in preschool and what to do about it he said: Lower the tax! If there was a problem in healthcare, it would also be solved with reduced taxes. That is the policy of the Moderates today as well. I think Bo Lundgren would be happy to see this exercise. The tax will be reduced for everything. Anyone who rides a taxi should have a taxi allowance. Those who do not have the energy to clean or want to lift a finger to do so at home should have a tax deduction. The level of deduction for one, other than the other, shall be increased. There should be more job tax deductions. State income tax is to be abolished – and that's the only part that's progressive in income tax. You have to have tax deductions to save and to nest. You should have reduced taxes if you have a high level of education. You should also have some form of tax deduction if you have an occupational pension, and it should be reduced tax if you have children. It's supposed to be a tax deduction for home delivery of food. The tax will be reduced if you receive board fees and if you are an expert, investor and more. It's like a bingo in tax frenzy. That is why, of course, the right should not be responsible for the state budget. They pose a danger to well-being, to the sick and to the economically vulnerable. They pose a danger to an equal society but deliver gluttony for those who already have everything. What Sweden needs is increased economic equality and investment in climate change, not least in order to create work. Working has always paid off, and it still does today. But it can pay even more if you maintain the social security systems that are such an important part of the Swedish welfare model and that the right wing so gladly cuts into. These systems consist of salaries that we, as workers, have given up in order to be able to be insured if the accident occurs and we become sick or unemployed, for example, or if we are lucky enough to become parents and be at home with parental insurance. I call for the Left Party's reservation 19 to be approved.
i-AnCGn2XYZBHaMV2sCEvioN	Madam President, I would like We live in a country with high taxes. We live in a country with such high taxes that the government even pays subsidies to people so that they can afford to pay the taxes. We saw it in January with grants to households with high electricity bills, and we saw it this week with the grant to car owners. High prices, at least half of which consist of taxes, now need to be compensated by special contributions. But, Madam President, although in many cases taxes are far too high in Sweden, there are also things that have improved over time. This applies not least to income taxes, which are, of course, the tax area that we are discussing here today. Thanks to eight years of alliance government and then three more budgets that the Christian Democrats have been involved in negotiating, taxes on income and pensions have fallen considerably in our country. This is extremely good. This has made it pay better to work or to have worked. This has meant that more people have come to work and that growth has increased. People working is fundamental to strengthen Sweden and Sweden's well-being. If we are to be able to finance the reinforcements of the defence that are now necessary, to build away the queues that characterise health care and to strengthen the judiciary so that security can increase, more people need to work more hours. There is a need for tax cuts that encourage more people to work more, and then income tax cuts are particularly important. Madam President, I would like The best way to get more people into work and increase growth is to make wide-ranging tax cuts that benefit everyone who works. But there are also groups in which policies need to make special efforts. We Christian Democrats are deeply concerned about the growing group of long-term unemployed. Unemployment was high even before the pandemic, but in the economic crisis unemployment increased further. We know from the past that there is a great risk of more people getting further and further away from the labour market after an economic crisis, even after the economy has returned to a more normal situation. Specific measures are therefore needed precisely to combat long-term unemployment. A broad range of measures will be required in a wide range of policy areas, but the tax system also needs to be shaped to combat long-term unemployment. We therefore have a proposal for double job tax deductions for certain groups so that it is always best to take a job. We propose that the double job tax credit should apply for twice as many months as the person has been unemployed up to 24 months. This is a sharp tax cut on labour that will make it more profitable to work. Madam President, I would like Another very important factor in getting people to work more is creating good conditions for companies to hire and grow. An all too often forgotten part of this is the ability of small businesses to link important skills to their board of directors. By taking third parties into the board – people who can contribute with other knowledge than the one that already exists – the company will gain new perspectives and a stronger position. This in turn improves the opportunities to grow and hire new employees. Unfortunately, however, the conditions for taking external expertise into the board have deteriorated in recent years. This is due to the fact that the board fees may not now be included as business income even if they are paid to a company. Because of this, many potential board members will be less attractive to take board positions. It is particularly serious for small but growing companies. This not only weakens businesses, but weakens society as a whole. As companies weaken, growth, employment and tax revenues also deteriorate. Madam President, I would like Of course, competence is not just something that is needed in the boardrooms. We Christian Democrats also see the need to make it easier for small companies to recruit skilled workers by offering incentives and employee participation. Many small businesses work long hours with low wages at the beginning, and they rarely have the opportunity to offer market wages to key employees. In the budget that we Christian Democrats were involved in last autumn's negotiations, the taxation of employee stock options was more favourable, but the regulatory framework is still too limited. We want the possibility for companies to use incentive schemes to be extended so that more companies can do so. If our proposals become a reality, it will be more attractive to work and more profitable to move from grants to jobs. At the same time, the conditions for companies to grow and employ more are improving. Then Sweden gets more people who work more and thus also more tax revenue to strengthen health care, security and defence with. Madam President, I would like However, our society is larger than both the state and capital. That is why I shall also say a few words about the gift tax deduction before I finish. For me as a Christian Democrat, a strong, viable and independent civil society is very important. For this reason, we Christian Democrats have consistently worked for the gift tax deduction. This means that those who give gifts for social purposes and research receive a tax relief, but it also means that organizations such as Stadsmissionen, the Heart-Lung Foundation, the Cancer Fund and many others become stronger. In the budget drawn up last autumn, the gift tax deduction doubled so that those who donate money to approved organisations can now get up to SEK 3 000 lower tax. This is really good and will mean that civil society will have even better opportunities in the future. But there's more to do. We Christian Democrats want many more types of organisations to be included, administration to be simplified and the lower limit for each individual gift to be lowered. I am pleased that more parties in their own movements are now highlighting ways of developing the gift tax deduction. This gives me hope that a new government can quickly investigate the question of how more types of organisations can be included. To conclude, Madam President, I naturally support all the reservations expressed by the Christian Democrats, but in order to gain time at the forthcoming vote, I only call for reservation 40.
i-DwtwaFwJsFri2Vnk1Pcf7y	Madam President, I would like This is our first chamber debate since Ukraine was invaded by dictator Vladimir Putin and his murder army 21 days ago. For me, it would be impossible to begin my speech in this debate by going straight to the point and talking about income taxes without touching the war that we are currently experiencing and the greatest humanitarian disaster that we have witnessed since the Second World War. While we stand here debating, there is a war going on just 200 miles from our borders. Tens of thousands of innocent people have been murdered in three weeks. Millions of people have been forced to flee. Over 3 million Ukrainians have been forced to leave their country. Over 80% are women and children. 7 million Ukrainians are refugees in their own country. The lives of all Ukrainian families have been ruined. Newborn babies that should have been brought home from the BB are now being sent to one of the many temporary morgues. All this evil has been caused by a tyrant from Moscow. If we do not act, if we do not continue to support Ukraine financially, humanitarianly and militarily, Ukraine will soon be a land of gravel and ashes. That is why, Madam President, my first chamber debate after the invasion is double-bottomed. We stand here in our Parliament, in the fortress of our democracy, debating important issues of substance policy. We have to do that. We must protect our own democracy, our freedom of speech and our freedoms, because those are the very values the Ukrainian people are fighting for today. They are fighting for the democratic future of Europe as a whole. Then it is also important that we continue our debates in order to show to the tyrant in Moscow that he will never be able to dictate the independence of democratic countries. Madam President, I would like I would now like to turn to the priorities of the Liberals in this report. But let me first establish an important principle. Working means more than just a salary. Being able to contribute and feel needed creates a self-realization and a community, for it gives people a purpose. Women gain financial independence from their partners. Young people get hope for the future and learn early how important it is to take responsibility. New arrivals have access to the most important key to enter the labour market, into society and into the Community and feel that they are also contributing. I asked for a reply when Mrs Oskarsson made her speech, highlighting the situation of women. But I have not understood all the rules of debate. Turns out I couldn't ask for a line. Therefore, I am now addressing you directly, Anne Oskarsson. Women's economic independence is one of my concerns. You highlighted the pay gap that exists today. You addressed all the women who today live as poor pensioners. You addressed that women are the ones who take the most responsibility for home and family and how it affects both their finances and their future pension. You pointed out that women on average are at home or work less for eight years after the first child has been born. It is great that the representative of the Swedish Democrats in the Tax Committee highlights these issues, because it is incredibly great injustices that affect women in particular. They contribute to women being forced to remain in dangerous relationships, to women's owning less and to the wage gap between men and women just increasing and increasing. But then my questions are to Mrs Oskarsson, if she wishes to reply to me: Are you prepared to stand up to your party and review our social security systems? Are you prepared to look at parental insurance, which is deeply unfair and contributes to women being forced to take the greatest responsibility for unpaid work at home? Are you prepared to review the part-time question? We know that women who work part-time will also be deprived of one of the most important components of the pension system, namely occupational pensions. It is nice to stand and address challenges, but one must also dare to look at the real causes of these injustices. I'd love to have a change of line with you. However, I shall now turn to an issue that we highlight in this report. Apart from the issue of jobs and self-sufficiency, Madam President, the issue of housing supply is a huge problem. Young, newly arrived and women are having a hard time getting to the cash bet for the first place they live. Liberals have proposed that the first SEK 300 000 be saved tax-free. We know there's a government investigation going on to be presented on March 31. The problem is that it only addresses a group that is discriminated against and excluded from the housing market. We want everyone who does not own their dwelling, no matter how old they are, to have the possibility of tax-free savings up to SEK 300 000. We want a further investigation to be set up to look at this issue, because it is important for the groups that are currently outside. Colleagues before me have highlighted the issue of how important it is that we give the right priority and ensure that our common tax money is used correctly. I agree. We have many years ahead of us to rearrange our defences, and that will require enormous efforts. But we will also be able to maintain the core business of welfare and strengthen school, health care, the judiciary and so on. Then it is also necessary to be prepared to take responsibility. But we must also ensure that the work line is restored. Today, too many people are excluded from the labour market. The groups that are furthest away from the labour market and the growing number that are now being forced into long-term unemployment are a proof of poverty for Sweden. For many years Sweden has had a very strong boom. Nevertheless, unemployment has not been solved, which has only grown and which is likely to be even bigger now after the pandemic. It must be profitable to move from grants to work. That is why we need to review the tax scales in order for more people to get to work. This is the only way we can maintain our well-being – by more people working, more people contribute and more people feel that the money goes to the right ends. I note that I have exceeded my speaking time, but I would like to conclude by calling for our reservation 35. In order to gain time in this House, I only choose that reservation, although of course I support all our reservations.
i-TfvbXpGG2E4LhPR4ABUhpu	Madam President, I would like I wanted to take a line on Gulan Avci in connection with her questions. I strongly support what I said in the speaker's chair. I think it is regrettable that women still have a 20% pay gap and that wages in women's occupations are not raised to the same extent as in men. If you look at how much a man and a woman earn, you can see that there is already a pay gap of 4 – 8 per cent, and when it comes to the total income pension for the entire working life it is significantly less for women. Men's occupational pension is also often higher, and men have a completely different opportunity to make a career than women, who take care of children and other relatives. In fact, it is deeply unfair that it should be that way, because women who take care of relatives relieve the municipal system. They take part of the cost of it but at the expense of their pension. It can't be right. I sat on the Social Security Committee from the beginning, so I am quite familiar with such issues. Those who are at home with children have only 80% of their salary, and we want to increase that to at least 85%. For my part, I want it to be 100%. Our children are to be born into a society where they will then take care of us, and their mothers cannot remain poor. We want all Swedish children to have the same right to a life. If we look at divorce statistics, we see that women often become self-sufficient. I usually live in Öland, and I have seen them bring their children in the summer. They can't afford much. They come two or three women with five six children.
i-X4SafgEn75eqJpsR2zScT7	Madam President, I would like It was very good news that Anne Oskarsson thinks, as I do, on the crucial issues in order to close the pay gap between men and women. Is Anne Oskarsson prepared to take this debate with Jimmie Åkesson, Richard Jomshof and Oscar Sjöstedt? The Swedish Democrats want to cancel both the earmarked months in parental insurance and introduce a custody allowance that means that women's position in the Swedish labour market is even worse. It is admirable that Anne Oskarsson is so clear that she is behind what I said in the speaker's chair. Unfortunately, it doesn't mean much when her own party has a completely different view of its focus on Swedish gender equality. I rarely hear the top politicians of the Swedish Democrats in this House or in other contexts talk about the inequalities women experience in working life and at home through the social security system. We can discuss further, but I would also like to hear that the Swedish Democrats' parliamentary group and the Swedish Democrats as a party are behind Anne Oskarsson's clarity in how to strengthen gender equality and advance women's position in terms of both economic freedom and other areas.
i-2UfeFjvbMLeKvj6W4xNKVV	Madam President, I would like The Social Security Committee is definitely behind what I say, and I have talked to both Jomshof, Jimmie and others about these issues; there is nothing strange about it. However, you can have different solutions for how to do it, and that's where it differs.
i-QigUixg49ff4MeDAWsNXBb	Madam President, I would like It is very good that in 2022 we live in such a modern and digitised society so that we can track what individual Swedish democrats have expressed and express in the debate when it comes to gender equality. There is an essential difference in saying something between bowl and wall and in this House pressing the right button when issues that are crucial to women's rights and economic freedom are to be decided. I have looked at how the Swedish Democrats have put themselves to various claims in the Social Security Committee, not least when parental insurance has been debated. It is necessary to recognise the inequalities in parental insurance that hold women back from working life and contribute to a reduction in part-time work of 30% of women returning to work after parental leave. This affects pensions and the possibility of wage developments and helps women to take even greater responsibility for children who are at home sick from preschool. I look forward to debating and voting on the claims here in Parliament, and I will note in particular how the Swedish Democrats vote on parental insurance. Thank you for a good debate!
i-9ZQ9uLwELQUAR4HL5ib7nu	Madam President, I would like There is war in Europe. We are in the midst of the fastest growing refugee crisis since World War II. There are 3 million people who have fled Ukraine to seek refuge, and 1 million of them are children. Some are already here. No one currently knows how the situation is going to develop. We have just gone through a long and painful pandemic – a health crisis in the first place, an economic crisis in the second place. The whole world's been hit. We've lost family. Care queues have grown. The feeling of isolation has increased mental illness. Unemployment has increased. Countries have borrowed large amounts of money to cope with the effects of the pandemic. Even at an individual level, each of us has made great sacrifices. We live in a time of crises that follow and worsen each other. So more and more people realize that alone is not strong and that we need each other. Now the need for strong society and common solutions is greater than ever. This is obvious to us Social Democrats. For Sweden to stand strong through all storms, society must be strong and equal. We must close the gap, break segregation, break crime and strengthen welfare. It will not be easy, but it will be right. Nor can we count on temporary crisis measures to be taken when there is an uncertain security situation in Europe, because neither the war nor the pandemic were expected. There's no magic splinter that can predict what happens next. The best defense we can have is to be well prepared. This is why Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson announced last week that the defence will be strongly strengthened. That's why we're going to invest in health care, the police, the school and every area where it's necessary. It will require major reforms and efforts to be paid out heads for heads. The motion book that we are debating today contains 44 proposals in the field of income tax, most of which are about tax cuts from the right. I cannot understand the justification for lowering a lot of taxes when we are in the midst of a major crisis and have so much to do. It is not possible to call for tax reductions after tax cuts and at the same time to promise gold and green forests. Sometimes it may sound like we want the same thing in this House, but the difference between our parties usually boils down to who should pay the bill. When the right is in charge, it is ordinary people who pay the highest price. Social welfare is deteriorating and common social security schemes are being eroded. You don't have to love taxes, but you need to understand why they exist and what they're used for. Without taxes, care for the elderly and care for the elderly will not improve. Nor can we help industries, businesses and families out of crisis. Without taxes, there can be no more police, prosecutors or correctional officers. Without taxes, we cannot have a stronger defence force and a better civil defence. Madam President, I would like This is not the time for major tax cuts. It is time for order in our country, and it is time for solidarity with Ukraine. We demand that all motion requests be rejected.
i-6FUkoRd19UBxfk3dnC3PRN	Madam President, I would like Never in the foreseeable future has the importance and value of free media and factual information without political control been felt so extremely valuable. What we are now seeing in Russia and have also been worried about in the past is the diametric opposite of free media and freedom of expression. It's so terrible and so sad. Media is a fundamental part of our society. It is through those we get our view of the world and shape our views. In democracies, the media create common, public spaces in which democracy takes place, information is disseminated and citizens can take a stand. It examines the exercise of power, and secures influence, responsibility and collective wisdom. Instead, in Russia and in dictatorships, the media are tools to keep the citizens in check by indoctrination, but also by maintaining uncertainty and ignorance and withholding facts. Increasingly, the opportunities of the media have been highlighted by dark forces as an effective way of conducting disinformation wars in order to sow splits and divisions and thus undermine our entire society. Madam President, I would like When media reality changes, media policy must also be tested. Politics cannot simply be content with wishing that the world looked as it did before, as if nothing has happened when so much has changed. That is why we Moderates want to see a new media policy for the 2020s with diversity and openness as the guiding principle. Some of the proposals that we see here today, Madam President – even some of the proposals from us Moderates – feel neither topical nor relevant anymore. We live in a world that has changed. However, a proposal that is very topical, Madam President, is the Moderates' proposal for a new public service investigation tasked with investigating a new authorisation and budget process for the new broadcasting period from 2026 to 2033. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by calling for the Moderates' reservation to be approved 1.
i-6z9k5Nuu41dFgYVBrhSjqU	Madam President, I would like In the public service of the Putin regime, there is now a risk of imprisonment if the word is mentioned when reporting on the war in Ukraine. The editor marin Ovs does this in annikova, as she held up a sign behind the newsreader with the message. Don't believe in propaganda. This is where people lie to you. ..................................................... The Putin regime's Russia has succeeded in bringing so-called "news" out of its state television. We now see how harmful it is when you can't and can't even tell about reality. When SVT and SR report on the war Ukraine, the inhabitants of Russia get a completely different picture from what we get. This shows the risk that exists if we do not ensure that there is an arm's length distance between us and the media companies. That is why we need to ensure independence, that is why we need to ensure objectivity and that is also why we need public service. Without it, we must not take note of events and news that affect us, and we can also get involved. Without the news of the invasion of Ukraine, we had not all collected clothing and medicine and, in addition, given weapons to a country close to us. Without the wide range of news and reports provided by public services on a daily basis, we would not have understood the seriousness of our security situation and that of the country. Madam President, I would like In four years' time, the new broadcasting authorisations to be valid until 2033 will enter into force. Today, I will devote most of my speech to our reservation 2 – ahead of the authorisation period of 2026 – 2033 – which I would like to support. It is many years that public service has to relate to outside set frameworks. In view of the current broadcasting permit, the appointment of members to the Administrative Foundation was changed so that no acting members of parliament could be elected. It was a good and reasonable change to extend the distance between politics and public service, although it probably had greater symbolic value than practical value. In view of the forthcoming permit period, it is of great importance to us that we begin to look at future permits in good time. We see that there are four years left on the current state of transmission, while time is running away. It can go fast at the end. In view of the reform proposals we have on public service provision, it would be desirable to have information on when, at a certain point, work will be started on future broadcasting permits. Again: There are four years left on the current state, but time is fast. Madam President, I would like Today, public service is divided into three companies: Swedish Television, Swedish Radio and Education Radio. The Swedish Democrats want to merge the public service companies into a single joint company, from today's three. This can make costs and work more efficient, among other things. We want to see a narrower and sharper public service. We believe that this is a necessity for meeting a modern media market in the future. In short, we need a system that is resource efficient and that people have a high level of confidence in. We also want to see a body for the review committee and for the examination of the facts. The think tank Timbro released a report last year on the review board and the factual assessments that were made, where we could see trends in convictions and elements that were not convicted. For the sake of viewers and credibility, it must be made clear when a factual error occurs. That is why we want corrections to be made even more clear. We also want to see greater Nordic cooperation, in order for us to learn from each other but perhaps mainly because we tell current events with different approaches. Denmark has a completely different debate on immigration than in Sweden. There is more transparency that we have much to learn from. This and many other things should be included in the public service inquiry that we want to set up, and we have prepared this in committee in the past. Madam President, I would like During the year, public services have been involved in the formation of people. Now we know what a state epidemiologist is. We've learned how viruses are transmitted and why viruses mutate. We've seen pictures of war in our neighborhood. In the case of gloomy and boring events there is public service there to inform us about the latest. Today it is fast with several notices and daily press conferences. This is the cornerstone of public service – to inform and enlighten. In the time we are living in today with rapid flows and constant news updates, it is becoming increasingly important for accurate information to reach us. It is also becoming increasingly important for people to have confidence and confidence in the media, especially in public services. And it is in this that our concerns are based. We are concerned that trust in, above all, public services is falling because many today do not think that public services are sufficiently impartial, not sufficiently objective and not sufficiently transparent in their independent work and in their journalism. Our reforms are based on the concerns that many people feel and that many are discussing with us. My constituents and those who sympathise with SD today have less confidence in public service than those who sympathise with the other parties. Given that my party is growing in public opinion and many times is the largest or second largest party in the polls, more people should be concerned about the growing distrust of public service. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats believe in a reformed and somewhat less public service but at the same time that you should get more out of what is actually public service.
i-Wmgzgj3QdtTnNmes4HZoww	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 8 in paragraph 3 of the report, but of course I also support the Centre Party's second reservation. Diversity and competition in the media market have never been greater than today. In my ears, it's positive. Competition is the best way to maintain quality and relevance, and it provides choice for the consumer. Public service should operate in public service in peacetime, and more importantly, it is in times of crisis. It shall be independent and free. Fundamentally, we have media that can review power locally, regionally and nationally. It is therefore positive that SVT now aims, and is well on the way to achieving, to be in 50 locations in our country in 2023 and that all municipalities should be visible in SVT at least three times a year. This increases the number of opportunities for a local debate. Public service must also be accessible to everyone. It is of great importance that we ensure the relevance of public services to the public. For the Center Party, this means that we want to see a broad content mission with limited detailed regulation. Madam President, I would like If you talk about public broadcasting, you can't help talking about journalists' safety. We are currently receiving daily news from journalists who, as a result of their lives, will report from the brutal war in Ukraine. But that's not really what I was going to start with. This is also about what is happening very locally. Journalists must be allowed to work freely and safely in order to do their job. Then it must not be the case that they are exposed to threats and hatred, either personally or against the editorial board. But we know it's there. And if the journalists shut up, we're on a dangerous road. Media is an important part of a liberal democracy that can review power, inform citizens and highlight and highlight societal problems. Another important bone is source criticism. We often talk in this pulpit about the important task of the school. And here the school really has an important task to teach young and almost adult students how to share a news item. In what context does it come? It's not just about what's true or false, right or wrong. It is also about whether there is a messenger behind, when the news comes and how to reflect on what you encounter. Even if you learn this in school – I am happy every time I hear about different jobs where students reflect on the media – you have to fill this up for the rest of your life. And here UR has a very important mission. For even if the foundation is laid in school, one must continue to reflect on this as an adult. Madam President, I would like Public service plays a major role in the reflection of the whole country, and it needs to be there side by side with the private actors in order to have a diversity of perspectives. A continued broad public service mission is central to the continued relevance of the offer to many people in Sweden. This also means that people with disabilities, for example, must also be able to have a wide range of services because it is on public service that we can make such demands. Previous speakers have noted that the first thing that happens when authoritarian leaders take power is that in many cases public service is the first victim. That is why independence must be protected. Independence is central to fulfilling the democratic objective. Part of this is to review the fact that it is the government that today has to decide on the ex ante review. The independence of public services in terms of political influence is important, and it should therefore be established in the context of the ex ante verification. In our opinion, this should be different, that the government is not involved in decisions on the pre-trial review. Madam President, I would like Swedish companies, and not least media houses, go as a result of covid-19 in several cases on their knees. This can open up to unwanted foreign state actors buying up free and independent media in Sweden. In order not to open these doors wide, it would be important to try to raise the thresholds appropriately, but with respect for our constitutions. How national security interests can be ensured during the licensing process for television, text television and audio radio has been addressed in a specific investigation. The question of how it is ensured to assert free and independent media also needs to be addressed. We assume the government will secure it. However, the government needs to return to the Riksdag to provide information on how to do this. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reiterate that free and independent media in public service – above all, of course, radio and television, which we are discussing here today – is a prerequisite for democracy. Unlike Angelika Bengtsson's voters, who have low confidence in public service, my constituents and the Center Party have very high confidence in public service. But we also need to be involved in examining things in every way. A broad content mandate and limited detailed regulation are of great importance.
i-6KN7LbLgqzdVPKRjwLjZ9o	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for approval of the Christian Democrats' reservations Nos 4 and 10. I had an interesting call on my trip here today. It was a researcher who told us that he and some of his colleagues had discussed the situation in Ukraine, where Russia's abuses testify to the abuse of totalitarian powers and strangled the media so that it fits into the situation that has been created. The conclusion of the conversation was very interesting, I think, because it was that it might not be so bad that the parliament is bickering, as he put it, a little bit – or sometimes quite a lot. Sometimes bickering means having a free mind and expressing what you think and believe in. I was happy to hear this. Democracy has its flaws, but the frustration we can feel when things take time does not have to be evil. Or as Cornelis wrote about democracy in one of his songs – I'm a Cornelis fan: Every day it gets better, but it never gets good. We're working on it all the time. We are now debating public broadcasting. Sometimes it can also be seen as bickering. But for the sake of democracy, I wish only to express and question what I want. Swedish Television, Swedish Radio and Education Radio have this public service mission. They have received this from us elected representatives, primarily until 2025. It is not the power that should review the media, but the media that should review the power. That is what democracy is all about in this context. Therefore, the question of arm's length is important. Politicians are supposed to stay away from TV tabs-- at least that's my absolute opinion. Madam President, I would like The next broadcasting license for the three public service broadcasters will begin in 2026. That broadcasting license lasts for eight years. That's quite a long time. As it is about tax money, it is our responsibility to review how this money is spent. Every person who is at work and has turned 18 contributes. We think that the public service fee needs to be balanced annually so that there is not an excessive surplus in the so-called public service account. If we imagine more people in our country getting into work, the revenue will increase. In such a situation, it is important that the account is balanced, and the result should be that the public service fee is reduced. We Christian Democrats will, in any case, be actively involved in reviewing the direction of the next broadcasting permit. It is both responsible, important and democratic. We want to see a parliamentary committee that is involved in taking a position on the issues that have come up for the next broadcasting permit and which sees what additions can be considered. We remember what it was like for 2020 – 2025, i.e. the broadcasting permit that is now in progress, when several additions to the mission itself were made. For example, weakly guarded areas would be strengthened. National minority languages would be strengthened. The mission of preparedness was to be modernised. The scope of, among other things, visual and sign language interpretation at SVT and UR would increase. It was also about distribution on other platforms. In order to strengthen the legitimacy of public services over time, we believe that the mission needs to be narrowed down compared to today and given a main focus on social information, independent and factual news communication nationally and regionally and, as we call it, a high-quality cultural offering. Public services have a very important role to play in providing comprehensive and impartial news services that meet not least the specific needs of certain target groups such as children and young people, people with disabilities and also minority groups. Public service also plays a very important role as an intermediary of public information. This applies in everyday life but even more in difficult times like in crisis or in war. Something that we have seen over time and that I think most of us are worried about is that the media presence outside the big cities continues to be tough. It's falling. To meet these developments, we Christian Democrats have said that we see a value in public service strengthening its regional news coverage, which is also partly the result of the recent additions to the mission. When we say that we want to narrow the public service, it is to describe the mission that we believe should be the focus of public service. The mandate states, among other things, that the range of programmes should be characterised to a large extent by the formation of people. Entertainment productions can be done by commercial operators at least as well. It is my firm conviction that a narrowing of the mission will also strengthen the legitimacy of public services over time. This hopefully also makes it possible to reduce the public service fee. Madam President, I would like There was a broad consensus in the Riksdag on the main mission of the current broadcasting permit, i.e. to offer a diverse range of programmes covering both the wide range of programmes and more distinctive types of programmes together with the important role of the activities in digging journalism and to review the powers of society. It is not the power that should review the media, but the media that should review the power. But let us not stop freely discussing and meeting and measuring our different opinions! It is part of democracy, and we Christian Democrats want to be an active part of that process. If anyone had any idea how to call this a squabble, it might have happened. For me, a new meaning has come to me after the trip I made here today. Belief does not have to be evil, my friends, and is not unimportant in a democracy. Anyone who fears that different opinions are being raised should perhaps think about what the alternative looks like.
i-LttrMVYpvx6qhovGxYs1GM	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by expressing my thanks to Swedish journalists and editorial staff. My picture is that a very difficult situation has been handled with war, misinformation and grey zone situations in a very wise and good way. I see it in commercial media, and I see it in public service. This particular debate concerns public service, so we can well note that Swedish Television and Swedish Radio are changing their tableaus to meet the increased demand for knowledge, information, facts and news from the Swedish population. We can also note that the education radio takes great responsibility for children's and young people's concerns. They also help to remind us how important it is to question and think about the sources and the facts of news. I also send a thought to those who try to give us a picture from within the war in Ukraine and to those who risk their own freedom to tell us freely what is really going on in Russia. Unfortunately, we see that war requires victims even among journalists. Madam President, I would like In this situation, it will also become clear how crucial media, culture and stories are to how we experience our time and understand our life. Anyone who lives in Russia and takes only part of the Russian media, as many have said, has a completely different picture of what is happening than what we have that is taking part in other, free media. It is a reminder of the importance of media freedom and independence. It is a reminder of the importance of us democrats in the Swedish Parliament standing up for the media, both public service and commercial media, to have good conditions. It can be difficult – one should admit that as a politician – to be examined by stubborn journalists and competent editorial staff, but the alternative is much, much worse. In countries where authoritarian governments have taken power, efforts have almost always been made to gain control of the media. In war, media and, not least, television towers are often early targets, and that is no coincidence. It is a reminder of the power of the media and of the importance of free media with good conditions. Public service media are with their mission from the public extra vulnerable in war, crisis and attempts to dedemocratic a country. It is therefore of the utmost importance to create clear and strong, strong guarantees that the independence of public service media from politics will not be eroded. On the contrary, independence should be strengthened in various ways. Madam President, I would like I'll admit that I'm a little worried about Angelika Bengtsson's rhetoric: Trust seems to diminish, many feel that it's not factual and distrust is growing. It's a lot about what people feel, believe and think and very little facts. I believe that it is important to have objectivity in this debate. There is great confidence in public service. It can increase and it can decrease, but it is important that you have objectivity in your argumentation, because if you want the media to be objective, it is a good start to be factual in your own criticism of the media. Madam President, I would like The idea behind the public service media is that they should be characterized by independence, impartiality and objectivity, and the Liberals believe that the public service media should continue to have a broad mission and strive for quality and relevance in all genres they engage in. The activities must be conducted independently in relation to the state as well as other economic, political and other interests in society. Should this independence be protected by constitutional law? Well, we've been thinking about this in a committee in this house. For my part, it would be very welcome, and the Liberals would like that to happen. But it is important in that case that it is done with broad support in the Riksdag, and it does not seem possible, at least not right now, to reach such a broad agreement on constitutional independence. But there are other things you can do to strengthen independence and reduce political influence. The three public service broadcasters are owned by an administrative foundation known as the Administrative Foundation or the Owners' Foundation, which is appointed by the Government. It acts as an intermediary or a buffer for the public service broadcasters to reduce the possibility for policies to influence the companies. Through progressive changes, we have now moved away from the political opportunity to influence the ownership foundation. As someone pointed out earlier, they do not have active members of parliament in the owners' foundation or in the companies. It's important. I think we can take further steps. Those who are employed, for example, in the Riksdag, work in the European Parliament or are secretaries of the Government Office should also not be on the board of these companies or on the board of the Administrative Foundation. One should consider whether it is not time to also introduce a withdrawal period that applies when someone goes from, for example, the government to a public service company. It is important to continue to increase the distance between active politicians and public service broadcasters. Reforms could also be introduced for the Radio and Television Audit Board in order to create greater independence there. The procedures for the work of the Audit Board are mainly governed by a regulation. This means that a minority government with a rather small amount of support, such as the one we have now, can quite easily change the conditions for overnight scrutiny. It is reasonable that the most important regulation of the Board of Review should be moved from regulation to legislation in order to prevent a government from rapidly and radically changing the conditions for such an important activity. This too must be addressed, Madam President. From this point of view, it is also desirable to find a different regime for pre-trial decisions and that the government is not the last instance of this, as highlighted by some parties in this report. As I said, I would like to see constitutional protection, but I also see that much else could be done that is perhaps even more effective in strengthening impartiality, freedom and political independence in a faster way. Madam President, I would like The Liberals have no reservations in this report. That is because our motions in this area are partly dealt with in other reports. I therefore refrain from making any claim.
i-EnxAUJdakwCvoGxbc9YqCQ	Madam President, I would like Christer Nylander doesn't understand what I'm thinking, and he doesn't think I've shown the facts. I'll talk to voters because voters will be in touch with me. When you talk to me about the media, it's the first thing you say, or really the only thing you say: Put down public service – it's just nonsense, and they don't do anything good! And then I have to convince them there's something else. But what I hear is a great distrust of public service. What people feel is relevant. It is relevant because we live in a democratic society, and one must be able to show mistrust and say it out loud. I'm listening to my constituents. I convey their opinions here many times. I am elected for a party in which I have voters. Today, many of us are voting for the Swedish Democrats, and there are many who openly show their distrust of public service. There are studies showing that those who sympathise with the Swedish Democrats have lower confidence in public services and the media. How do we change that? Are the Liberals and Christer Nylander satisfied with what the figures are today? There are studies to show this. I can send them to Christer Nylander after this debate, because they exist.
i-V1kCdixcRcmXd1usBxV19v	Madam President, I would like There is no doubt that there are groups in society that have low trust in public services, other media, authorities and politics. That's the way it is. But you can't base media policy and public service policy on what someone calls and tells them how they feel right now. If ten people were to call Angelika Bengtsson and say that they want four public service companies, would Angelika Bengtsson and the Swedish Democrats think that would be the case? Or have you already decided in advance what you think to then bring it forward and use anecdotal evidence as an argument in the speaker's chair based on who calls you and says things? I don't really think that's good enough. If you want fewer companies, present proof that it will be more effective! You could think the opposite, that if you think that public service today is too monotonous, you would have more companies and then get more perspectives. That is also a reasonable argument. If you think that a narrower mission would mean that more people will have confidence in public service, then provide proof of that! It is not only about people calling and saying something, but you must also be able to lead in evidence that if public service did not broadcast on the track and the Melodi festival would more stream to public service and trust increase to their broadcasts of Report. What is the basis for such a decision?
i-L9PFL5M1QaZeFqcb6ApBMJ	Madam President, I would like It gets a little strange when you say we believe or don't believe in things. What we write in our public service exercise is that we want a narrower and more efficient public service. That's right. We also write that there should be a high level of education on the programmes so that you do not buy, for example, English programs that have no educational purpose and do nothing to maintain the Swedish language, which public service has a special mission to do. Public service has a special assignment in many different respects besides conveying news. I'm sure Christer Nylander is aware of who it is. When it comes to being a company, we can see that in Europe it is a public service company that one has. It is extremely rare to have three public service broadcasters. When it comes to mistrust, that we do not get what we pay taxes for – public service receives its funding from the tax – something has to be done about it. I believe in an efficient public service that makes it more efficient, as they have done in Denmark. They get more for less. It has worked in Denmark. I am convinced that it will also work here in Sweden. You have to give it a chance. We cannot just continue in the same footsteps and pretend that the confidence figures are as high in Swedish-democratic voters as in the voters of the other parties. It is about confidence in the media and in public service so that we can maintain public service, with changes.
i-ESdP3PPkdvVktr1itYJqjV	Madam President, I would like If you look at what it looks like around the world, you might imagine that those examples could be used as arguments for the opposite. Sweden has three companies, and we have higher democratic participation than most other countries. We have a greater degree of trust in society than most other countries. And that's what we have with three companies. But that does not mean that there are three companies that lead to it. It just happens that we are a country that has high trust, high democratic participation and public service. What is cause and effect we do not know. Therefore, it cannot be used as an argument that other countries only have one company and that it would increase trust and improve the democratic dialogue in Sweden. It is true that there are some voters and some citizens who have less confidence in public service than the average. And they often vote for the Swedish Democrats and have low confidence in other media as well. I understand that when Angelika Bengtsson looks at Denmark, she is particularly impressed by the fact that they have another report on the immigration problem. Maybe that's what it's all about. It is believed that confidence in public services would increase if there was a Danish immigration policy debate. I don't know if that's the case. I think you should think more about how to strengthen impartiality, how to strengthen journalistic freedom, how to strengthen editors' opportunities to operate freely and think freely about what news evaluation they do and to send the programmes that they think are important from editorial decisions. I do not think that we in the Swedish Parliament should decide what is the right programme, which angle is right or which researchers should be admitted or review which programmes should be broadcast in Swedish Television, Swedish Radio or Education Radio.
i-ADBRGK41xBhwFibfaHYTz9	Madam President, I would like Swedish Radio's international correspondent Nils Horner was a voice I often listened to. His reports on developments in Iraq and Afghanistan even had my father's approval. My dad said, "He understands the Middle East." ..................................................... To portray complex conflicts impartially and objectively, with great integrity and knowledge, and at the same time to give listeners a visual perception of an entirely different context and its development, sphere of power and people is a tremendous task. Horner was thus a master, a hoarse voice that almost daily with emotion and feeling gave us listeners an account of the political developments in another part of the world and brought this closer to Sweden. I remember the morning the news came that Nils Horner had been murdered on an open street in Kabul, Afghanistan. I called my dad who had heard the same news in the car on the way to work. After many years of listening, it was as if we had lost a friend, one who was in place in all these war spots and who could tell us what it was like. This year it's been eight years since he was murdered. Madam President, I would like The 2018 correspondent trainee in Nils Horner's spirit is called Lubna El-Shanti-Shanti. She is now Swedish Radio's Baltic Sea correspondent and the voice we almost daily hear from the city of Lviv in the war Ukraine. As early as last spring, she reported on the movements of the Russian army to the Ukrainian border with combat vehicles, artillery and soldiers via Belarus. Despite several years of monitoring the tense situation and a deep understanding of the developments in Eastern Europe, she reflected in her recent foreign chronicle that for the first time in her journalistic act she must have allowed the feeling to prevail over reason. While there were all the warnings, it was as if no journalist could reconcile himself with the idea that a full-scale war could break out in the middle of Europe. Madam President, I would like Tomorrow the war passes its third week, and the reports from inside are devastating. They are about shelters, air alarms before the bombs fall on the cities, families who say goodbye, sons and fathers who remain, overcrowded train stations that take civilians to Poland, Ukrainians abroad who come back to fight, surrounded cities that lack water, electricity and food, the National Theatre that has now become a relief centre, cultural heritage objects carried down in basements and children's hospitals and delivery departments that are being fired upon. It is also about perhaps the most arresting of all reports: the fear that biological and chemical weapons will be used against the population. We have knowledge of all this because the information reaches us, because there are free and independent media, foreign correspondents, war correspondents, cameramen, journalists and media houses whose starting point is to be in the service of the public and the truth. According to Reporters Without Borders, over 2 000 international correspondents are in Ukraine. Many of these have protective equipment and experience of war cores. But it does not have Ukrainian journalists whose reality has changed overnight. Most local reporters in the country have no experience of reporting from war. Reporters Without Borders and the Swedish Journalist Association therefore call for increased support to buy safety vests, helmets, first aid packages, satellite telephones and other technical equipment, so that the work can continue. So far, four radio and television masts have been shot down. Two have been taken over by Russian warmen. Journalists have been murdered, and foreign journalists have been shot at in the war Ukraine. Every day it becomes more difficult to access information and more dangerous to act there as a correspondent. The attacks on civilians are on the increase. More than 6 million people are now internally displaced in their own country. And over 2 million, especially women and children, have left the country. In the midst of all this, there is another reality in Russia. There all information and media reporting about the war in Ukraine is now being strangled. The most drastic measure is the law adopted by the Russian Duma on 4 March which puts those who even mention the war at risk of imprisonment for up to 15 years. It is therefore no longer possible for foreign media to operate on the ground. The indigenous free media are now completely suffocating. And the general public gets its information from state television, which is governed and owned by the regime or pro-regime. Social media in Russia are also largely propagandist and controlled. In several stages, they have also been shut down in the days. Nevertheless, efforts are being made to achieve this. Independent journalists and citizens blogs at risk of their lives, and foreign media write reports in Russian. An honourable example is Dagens Nyheter, which together with Danish Politiken and Finnish Helsingin Sanomat translates the news articles about the war Ukraine into Russian. Any attempt to get through and to curb media isolation in Russia will be necessary. Madam President, I would like This is the last debate on public service issues the Committee on Culture has in this House for this term of office. During our term of office, we have had a sometimes loud debate on the role and purpose of public services, its funding and its cultural missions. Some political representatives have gone so far as to say that they want to completely abolish the companies' activities while three bourgeois parties want to reduce the companies' financial resources. The fact that this criticism persists in some of the motions in this report demonstrates a deafening tone in the face of this new security situation. In my opinion, to make demands at all for the dismantling of public services when the independent news agency needs to be strengthened is under any criticism. It has never been more important in modern times for media actors in the public service who are party political and commercial independent, who reach out to all, who have high legitimacy in the public and who have strong resources through stable funding. The Parliamentary Public Service Committee stated earlier that public service is a public good that benefits all citizens, regardless of whether the offer is consumed or not. The fact that the companies are part of the total defense and have emergency missions that will enable them to continue operating in the event of war and severe pressures on society are some of the decisions we made in the new broadcasting state, and it has served our society well. The press conferences of the Government and the Public Health Authority during the pandemic and now the Swedish Armed Forces' information to the public reach the general public via public service. Madam President, I would like Few areas can match the tremendous change that the media sector has undergone in the last 15 years. Globalisation and international competition today mean that Swedish media players' competitors are global streaming services, search engines, online platforms and media players with worldwide muscles. The trend is greater buy-in, which means greater market share and clearer consolidation, as well as more expensive programme production. If you do not protect the financial conditions for the newspaper industry in Sweden or Swedish public service, the market share is eaten up in the global competition by global players. Reducing funding for Swedish public services does not therefore mean that other Swedish media actors benefit, rather reducing Swedish-speaking media that have to monitor and reflect Sweden overall. What makes the public service broadcasters primarily highly trusted by the general public is their broad-based content mission. They have the task of making themselves relevant to everyone. The media policy exercise of the Moderates states that they want a new budget and preparation process, which requires broadcasters to report a reduced level of funding for their activities in advance of each new broadcasting permit. The Swedish democrats' media policy exercise states that the costs of public service should be reduced. We Social Democrats believe that Swedish-speaking and minority-speaking media that reflect Sweden need to be strengthened in competition with global players. The new security policy situation should also call for some reflection on proposals such as these. Another proposal that raises some questions is the Moderates' proposal to introduce regular comprehensive reviews of programme activities within the Audit Board of independent actors. The idea of regular reviews goes against the very idea that programme reviews should be carried out ex post and never contribute to the impact of the content in advance. This also applies to the Swedish Democrats' previous proposal to establish a Scientific Council. However, it has been removed in the current exercise and it is stressed that an ex post review should be carried out. It appears that general criticism has been taken on board. Instead, the Swedish Democrats focus on developing the exposure of corrections, and they want the companies to introduce a program where the responsible editor will review what has gone wrong. If one is of the opinion that politics should keep arm's length away from the content of the programme, one should really review such proposals. Madam President, I would like This spring the mid-term review is being conducted with the Ministry of Culture, and we can already note that compliance with the Riksdag's decision on the direction of the broadcasting permit has generated a positive development. In 2015, SVT had 27 local editorial teams. Now you're walking towards 50 people in the whole country. Swedish Radio is investing massively in pop-up editorials that now enable surveillance in all Swedish municipalities. The role of education radio has been further deepened as it has assisted the education system during the pandemic of digital education, now also in communication with children and young people in understanding security policy developments. In addition, the range of news and culture programmes for sign language speakers and minority groups has been expanded. A month ago, the Minister of Culture received the government's public inquiry into online content conditions for public service. It describes how the companies' programming on the Internet should be subject to the content conditions, such as review, for the remainder of the authorisation period, as the committee has long requested. The investigation has also reviewed the possibility of amending the existing arrangements for decisions on the ex ante examination of new posts. At present, the final decision is to be taken by the government, which a united committee has found problematic. The investigation suggests that the decision should instead be taken by the Swedish Press, Radio and Television Agency and that it should be subject to appeal. The legislative amendments are proposed to enter into force on 1 July 2023, provided that the Parliament decides on the necessary constitutional changes. Having said that, I think it is possible to sum up the political work of this parliamentary term in order to promote a strong, independent and relevant Swedish public service in public service quite well. Regardless of what the Swedish Democrats' Member Angelika Bengtsson expresses, confidence also seems to be coming out well. According to the SOM Institute's 2020 survey, 77 percent believe that they have high confidence in SVT and 71 percent that they have it for Swedish Radio. As many as 65 per cent believe that public service is well worth the price. Finally, Madam President, the next Committee on Culture will have to decide on a new broadcasting permit and new funding for public services. I hope that this will be done with a deeper understanding of the impact of globalisation, digitalisation and technological development on the media market and with a greater understanding of how important independent and factual information is in a time of warfare and destabilisation and how it is made possible by disinformation and propaganda. I would like to send special thanks to the journalists, international correspondents and war correspondents who provide us with the truth at a time when it is deliberately challenged. Having said that, I support the motion in the motion for a resolution and wish to reject all reservations.
i-dDQo98eEVfzSpxvAd8WvM	Madam President, I would like This is the last debate we have on public service before the elections. So I cannot help asking a few questions. First of all, I would like to say that I am not tone-deaf. I'd like to make that clear. There is a mid-term dialogue that is quite exciting. The form is that the government and the three public service companies meet and talk. That may be okay. For some reason, such a form has been decided. The government and the three companies, but not the opposition, are meeting. However, this can soon be changed – yes, not the form itself, but the composition. It's what it is. My research concerns the new broadcasting permit. The committee's report states that new broadcasting permits are usually preceded by investigations. I would like to ask Mr Redar how the Social Democracy views what we are proposing, namely a parliamentary committee that includes all of us who belong to Parliament and the parties.
i-2crdbjMY7YHcLzcwxs6Hgj	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Roland Utbolt, for the question! The statement on tone deafness was addressed above all to the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates, but I can include the Christian Democrats because I see in the new security policy situation that we need to strengthen the independent news coverage. We need to realise that the globalisation of the media market is costing the programmes and that the total defence mission and the preparation mission are increasing the costs of protecting the content of the programmes and terrestrial broadcasting. In the run-up to the forthcoming broadcasting permit, everything is now saying that journalism will cost more. Proposals for companies to reduce their funding also mean that they have to cut back somewhere. When proposals such as this have been implemented, not least in our neighbouring country, Denmark, this has meant that the cultural mission has had to be cut. Public service confidence is based on the fact that most people take part in the offering. I believe that the proposal will damage both the ability of the broadcasters to carry out journalistic work and that which gives them greater confidence. I think we are seeing a completely different challenge over the next four years. However, the question concerned the forthcoming broadcasting permit. We in the Swedish Parliament have had the task of setting up a parliamentary inquiry before we decide on a new broadcasting permit. This was done for the current broadcasting permit, and I find it very difficult to see that the corresponding is not made prior to the broadcasting license in 2025. But that will have to be dealt with by future cultural committees.
i-8mcJMM8qRpkV5Nu7AUDzay	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lawen Redar, for the answer to my question! It was basically a yes because we can come together in a committee where we together create a basis. I see it as very positive that everyone who has opinions can express them. It's still about 81⁄2 billion, which is a lot of money. Everyone who is over 18 years of age and who works in Sweden should contribute. We also have a 2% increase in funding every year. Last year, 2021, it gave it SEK 175 million. I think we agree that democracy must cost. The alternative is much worse. But what is the problem with wanting to highlight the issue of tax money and where the tax money goes? I have said here that we should lift every thought that we have. That's a lot of money. It is important that one can still discuss: Where does our money go, and how is it used? It is democratically important. I'll add something, too. Now, Lawen Redar hasn't said that, so it's perhaps a little rude to mention it. You sometimes hear that you should lift out certain programs, on the track, M e lodifestivalen and such things. I think that goes under the term bickering. But that is also something that I have defended here today from a democratic point of view.
i-2ugTWrFvsdHReSYkKXVr4d	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Roland Utbolt! I am very pleased when the Christian Democrats want to talk about the tax funds and how they are to be used. There are very many different areas where this debate would have to be held. This applies not least to the withdrawals from Swedish schools. But it is a completely different debate. Let's get to the issue of public service. To conclude, Roland Utbolt is quite right. Democracy costs, journalism costs and surveillance of these war cores costs. Total defense costs, and defense costs. All of this has to be summed up. In a situation where globalisation has taken off in this area, it means increased costs for the programme offering. We know that the smallest reduction in funding for Swedish newspapers and public service means that the big giants take even more of the media market's shares. I think we need to reflect on how much democracy will lose out on these approaches and efforts if we now reduce the funding for public services. My wish is to reduce appropriations in other areas, but perhaps not in relation to the monitoring of democracy.
i-4tvk9hPmcXFhhK8z3YoBUX	Madam President, I would like I feel obliged to go up here in the debate. I honestly believe that Lawen Redar has misunderstood the paragraph on the Board of Review. She means we're the ones who are going to review what's being convicted. I can deny it. That's not true. It is not for us politicians and Members of Parliament to review what is convicted in the Audit Board. What we want is to set up an agency. It has emerged that there is a discrepancy between what the public perceives as being examined by the Audit Board and what it actually examines. This is where we want to correct the error, if I may put it that way. It's a problem that people think you're looking at factual errors. If the latter comes to light that there was a factual error in a programme that was not subsequently convicted, that is a problem in our view. It is again a question of mistrust and trust in public service. Today, the Board of Auditors believes that it is not its task to double-check and check the facts. We believe that it should be part of its mission. That is what we want to add to the Board's mission. We can talk about trust. You can reverse the figures that Lawen Redar mentioned. It is 23% who today do not have confidence in public service. It is 35% who think it is not worth the price. If you don't know trust, why should we have public service? I guess it's somewhere you're supposed to have confidence in it. Then you have to make sure that the audience has confidence in public service.
i-BNQAicmMJjTsTeRdLhZWF2	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Angelika Bengtsson! I do not think I understood a question, but there is a reasoning. If you listen to what the various representatives of the Swedish Democrats have said about public service over the last four years, they think one day you should shut down various radio programmes and the other day they love public service. If you look at what they describe in their own media policy programmes, they want a Scientific Council to review the program content. They have expressly said so. In this parliamentary motion, they change this and say that the review should take place afterwards. It is a welcome initiative. Let's leave the programs where they're without any political attention. What I can clearly see in the motion presented by the Swedish Democrats here is that the funds for the companies should be reduced. This is justified by the suspicion of public service activities. One can think about who these people are who have a strong distrust of public service and whether it is also the case that these people have a strong misbelief in many other parts of society's infrastructure and functions. When you, as a political representative, get the kind of talks that were presented earlier in the debate with Christer Nylander, you can think about what responsibility you have to promote greater trust and not add to such mistrust. It is important to really invest in assisting with more facts in the debate and try to help with the fact that as a citizen of Sweden you have access to free journalism. Thus, people can be active actors in their local area or in the political debate to promote better conditions. We see a development of destabilisation and warfare that is developing because of propaganda and disinformation. I do not believe that any of us will benefit from being involved in such a development as party representatives. It's very serious.
i-VxESSxG7Pt2h5p4vBQsE2i	Madam President, I would like More money doesn't mean more trust. More money does not mean that it automatically gets better. We should know that about something, given how the public sector is conducted many times. More money doesn't mean it's better. It is very clear in our committee motion on public service. It is our official policy in this area, no matter what Lawen Redar is trying to make it look like here. We're behind public service. It is important to have public service in a democracy. But it is also important to have the right to criticise what you want to do better. There is what we do not think is being done well and where there is potential for improvement. Public service is important. It is an important foundation in communicating qualitative social information, in order to have a wide range of Swedish and Nordic films and television productions in Swedish and for the Swedish people produced in Sweden. This applies not least to the media landscape we have today. That's what they should spend more time on. If they need more money, why can we not re-budget the existing budget? Why does public service always have to get more money? That is the only answer the S ocial democrats have when they talk about reforming public services. It's more money, more money and more money. Why?
i-UKu7J25CdQ5gZcosg2LGXz	Madam President, I would like There is a very funny paradox in the argumentation. The Swedish Democrats very often talk about Swedish language and culture. Swedish society must be reflected. However, in terms of public service, they are prepared to sell out large shares of the Swedish media market to global competitors. It is public service that means that we have reviewing journalism and local editorial services throughout the country that reflect Swedish conditions. It highlights minority languages, multiculturalism and what our country represents. This is to be left entirely to global players. That is what a reduction in appropriations means. The past funding of daily newspapers was based on advertising revenue. They are now eaten by major search engines and by global social media companies. We know today that the state needs to come in here to support us so that we have quality journalism that reflects the whole country. They also need a chance to reset in the digital era. As far as public service is concerned, it speaks exactly the same way. We are facing a huge challenge in terms of the globalisation of the media market. The paradox in the Swedish Democrats' argument about reducing public service funding is that they do not want Swedish media coverage, a democratic infrastructure with strong trust and a factual news agency. I'm sorry about that position. It is important that more parties in the Swedish Parliament, and above all of the size of the Swedish Democrats today, take care of Swedish media actors.
i-PmG6bYN375ym7GKYuUk1Ds	Madam President, I would like Free, independent and independent media form the foundation of the construction of a stable democracy. We see how state-controlled media in Russia makes it difficult for people to get a true picture of what their own army is doing in Ukraine right now. Fortunately, there are still courageous journalists and activists who, at the risk of their own security, are trying to penetrate state propaganda. In other countries, where the dictatorship has taken an even stronger hold and also controls access to the Internet, the situation is even more difficult. In Sweden there is a long tradition of freedom of print and expression, and today's media landscape contains a variety of private and jointly owned television and radio channels and newspapers. It is through the jointly funded companies Sveriges Television, Sveriges Radio och Utbildningsradion, what we call public service, and their broad mission that the population is guaranteed, among other things, impartial social information, news, entertainment and cultural experiences. The fact that both journalism and the whole public service are independent from politics is absolutely fundamental. I did not intend to talk much about impartiality today, but I would like to note that in their speech here today, the Swedish democrats set the same mark between impartiality and being critical of immigration in their reference to Denmark. I find it remarkable. When we talk about trust figures and surveys on public service attitudes, I think it is important to remember that not all residents actually take part in the offer. It is very difficult to achieve 100% trust when people do not actually watch or listen to the programs. I have said this before in this House, Madam President: it is very important that we retain the broad mandate, which several previous speakers have touched upon. There are still several years left on the six-year broadcasting permit that we here in Parliament decided on for the companies. But it is already clear that several parties are in fact clear that they want to see major changes and cuts in public service during the next permit period. Of course, they do not call it cuts; they talk about restructuring, sharpening the supply, a narrower assignment and a merger of the companies. This broad mission, which includes sports broadcasts, family entertainment and children's programs intertwined with culture, documentaries and news items, ensures that SVT and the other companies feel anxious for so many and can continue to be a natural part of people's everyday lives even though we can now choose from more platforms, channels and streaming services than ever. Among other things, it is that the shared experiences can create a sense of belonging. I visited this weekend the rehearsal for the finale of the Melodi festival with my children. It was great to see how people already on the platform while waiting for the train started discussing the different final contributions with strangers. There was also a great feeling of gratitude that we live in a country where children can feel joy and dance when so many children around the world are on the run or in shelters. The fundraiser for Ukraine that SVT and Radiohjälpen did in connection with the competition this weekend and the previous finals in the Melodi festival gave nearly 30 million. It is also an important contribution that a large media company can make in the situation we are in today. The broad mandate also means easy learning and that there should be impartial and accessible news reporting even for those who cannot afford a newspaper subscription or payment service. We have really become aware during the pandemic what an important role public service has played in helping us understand the new virus and keep up to date with the latest research. We have been able to see how the Education Radio has supported students, parents and teachers when there was distance learning. Now that we have a new crisis in the form of a war with enormous consequences for millions of people, SVT and SR are in place with correspondents and daily interviews with experts and give us depth and understanding of what is happening. The training radio has special efforts. The UR programme Lilla Aktuellt's cola, which is published every Friday, reaches virtually all schools throughout the country and has a great focus on Ukraine today. Right now they are also producing new offerings linked to the situation in Ukraine. It is both explanatory and deepening programmes on the current situation in Europe, on NATO, on the laws of war and on disinformation, propaganda and freedom of expression. These are basic concepts that both adults and children need to learn more about. A target group is also parents, who can receive guidance on the basic principles of source criticism through the educational radio programme and also advice on being able to ask their children the right questions to help them understand what they see and hear about the war. Madam President, I would like The Moderates and the Swedish Democrats have in various ways announced major changes for the Education Radio. I find it very unfortunate. It is a very specific mission that this company has, and it works in a different way from the other two broadcasters. They have a close dialogue with their target groups, and they are out meeting students, teachers and educators to develop their programmes. Now Kristina Axén Olin initially signaled that the Moderates are prepared to reconsider some of their proposals. I don't know exactly what that means, but I'll be cautiously hopeful anyway. Madam President, I would like The public service companies now need are financial muscles to follow technological developments, continue to expand their local presence around the country and focus on increased supply for people with disabilities and national minorities. They need to be able to be quick when things happen in our world and continue to give us education and education. They shouldn't have to focus on big reorganisations, make cuts, diet their popular programming and quit people. Now we have three years left on the license of the companies, and I hope that M, SD and KD will use that time to re-evaluate their positions. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-UHfsuMk6sNqNYaVkcfeLWk	Madam President, I would like For us in the Green Party, free media as well as a free culture and independent courts are the foundations of a democratic society. Public service is a very important part of the free media, and we as a party protect today's broad and independent public service. In order to carry out the important public service mission and reach a broad audience, it is important that the conditions for this exist. While we are discussing public service in this House, there is a burning war going on in Ukraine. Thanks to courageous journalists on the ground, we'll know what's going on there. War correspondents choose to travel despite the risk of being injured or even losing their lives. The rest of us can read in the newspaper, watch TV or listen to radio and quickly gain insight into the brutal reality of the war. The journalistic coverage helps us to understand what is happening and how everything is connected. But the first victim of war is, as you know, the truth. Propaganda and false news are spreading. There's a lot of uncertainty. Many have an interest in spreading false beliefs, mistrust and uncertainty. Dissemination of information becomes part of warfare. In this situation, source criticism and critical analytical thinking are extremely important. Independent journalism has never been more important than it is now. Madam President, I would like Sweden, like the other Nordic countries, is at the top of the index of democratic parameters on freedom of the press and expression, people's news consumption and citizens' knowledge of political events. An important factor is the combination of a strong public service and a diversity of viable commercial media that characterizes our media market. We need to safeguard this success factor. Thus, the broad-based content mission with news, social information, education, culture, content for children and young people and national minorities, etc., should remain firm. The basic idea of public broadcasting is public service for the whole people. In order for the whole people to know about public services in a crisis situation, such as the pandemic that we have just suffered, public services are required to be provided on a daily basis in various kinds of programmes – from news and documentaries to films and entertainment, culture and children's programmes. It is the only way to keep public service offerings alive for everyone. It is the classical breadth that gives Swedish Radio, Swedish Television and Education Radio their democratic legitimacy. Broadcasts like Vasaloppet, Summer in P1 and Kalle Anka on Christmas Eve gather many people on the radio, TV or tablet. They give us collective memories, form us and let us gym with Sofia or enjoy other people's sports successes. We can all, no matter where in the country we are, participate in the joint public dialogue that takes place on the companies' platforms and in their channels. At the same time, new programming ideas and formats and new technologies are constantly being developed. SVT, for example, spearheaded and developed the digital technology for television in Sweden, which led to the creation of SVT Play in 2006. Then the commercial channels gratefully copied the play feature. The breadth and constant development, both in terms of content and technology, of Swedish public service contribute to a broad education throughout society. For a strong and broad public service to be protected, funding needs to remain around the current level. Strong and stable funding is needed to carry out the important task in a highly changing media landscape. We environmentalists would have liked public service to be protected by the Constitution. Unfortunately, there was no majority in the Committee to investigate the matter. I support the proposal in the Culture Committee's report.
i-8yksnqBhZDpwWoZZWZZtTa	Madam President, I would like Today, we are going to debate a report from the general period of exercise which contains some 140 different requests concerning support for people with disabilities. At the end of 2017, the Riksdag approved a new national target and a new direction for disability policy. The starting point for their design is the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities to achieve equality in living conditions and full participation in society. Madam President, I would like These are powerful and reasonable goals that oblige us decision-makers. Although Sweden is ranked as one of the most equal countries in the world, much remains to be done for people with functional variations. Despite the fact that we have unique rights legislation such as LSS, the law on support and service for certain disabled people, people with functional variations generally suffer from poor health and economics. I would like to see us weave in more debates the subject matter that affects this vulnerable group. How do we even out the economic divides in our country? It is an example of issues that are extremely important to this group, as we know that the socio-economically weaker groups are usually the biggest losers in terms of economic inequality. Madam President, I would like We are approaching the end of this term of office. It is now appropriate for me to explain what the government has done that has affected the situation of people with disabilities. At the individual level, we have seen an economic journey for people with sickness or activity benefits, who for many years have fallen behind economically and lived on scarce economic margins. Therefore, their economy was strengthened already in 2017 and 2018. Then there were increases in sickness benefit and activity benefit and a tax reduction. This year too, the guarantee level of sickness benefit and activity benefit was increased – an economic boost of just over SEK 1 000 per month. There has also been an increase in the housing allowance for people with sickness and activity benefits. The government has therefore done a great deal to strengthen the individual's economy in this group, which needs the money well. During this term of office, the government has also made historic investments in health care, school and care. Sweden's Municipalities and Regions reported record surplus in the financial statements last year. Then we can rhetorically ask ourselves in this House why the money is not spent. For several years we have received a number of precedents that have affected LSS and above all the assessment of personal assistance. Here we still need new, more modern and more legally secure legislation. There is a great deal of agreement in this House that the intentions of the LSS should be followed. The government has also, particularly during this parliamentary term, made a number of important reforms adopted by Parliament. Madam President, I would like For a number of years, extensive work has been going on to review and strengthen the legislation. As early as in 2018, the so-called two-year trial was abolished in order to gain control and control of LSS again. At mid-2020, the right to receive assistance for breathing and probe feeding, regardless of the nature of the assistance, and the right to personal assistance between interventions was strengthened. During the spring there will be more proposals based on the investigation Strengthened right to personal assistance, an investigation that has received an enormous amount of praise from the funkis movement. The government will present strong legislative proposals based on the investigation's proposals. We will ensure that we strengthen the right to personal assistance for those in need of supervision and for children and strengthen legal certainty for children by reducing and replacing parental responsibility with a parental allowance. We will also improve patient safety through new clearer provisions on self-care and medical care, and strengthened the right to medical supervision assistance. The government expects that these proposals will lead to approximately 1 800 more recipients of assistance compensation. Madam President, I would like In accordance with the January Agreement, the Government has negotiated the ongoing investigation into personal assistance units. The report must be presented by 1 March 2023. With this, the Government also gave a special assignment to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to develop knowledge support that will make assessments of basic needs more understandable and transparent to the individual seeking assistance. This mission will be presented in June. Now the opposition wants the investigator to have more investigative tasks in an already extensive and complex investigation, which I believe will delay sharp proposals – something for which the same parties often criticise the government. Finally, Madam President, I note that the government has done a great deal to facilitate the lives of people with disabilities. Our work to build the country together continues. For time winning, I would particularly like to approve reservation number 5.
i-JcWmbNFs3gRuZoxjG1RW9x	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to endorse reservation 6. Of course we support all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 6. Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the motion report Support for people with disabilities. An important part of the support for people with disabilities is LSS and personal assistance. Personal assistance has meant and means a lot to a great many people. Getting personal assistance can often be a prerequisite for being able to live like everyone else and be a part of society. Personal assistance also enables all children to grow up in their families. Personal assistance means, when it works well, security and freedom. My point of departure and that of the Moderates is that all humans are different but equally worth. Sweden shall endeavour to comply with the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. It was the former bourgeois government that ratified the Convention after the approval of the Parliament. This means an important responsibility: that people with disabilities or disabilities, depending on the expression they use – I heard that my previous colleague used This is a long-term obligation. For me as moderate, it is in the spinal cord to have as a starting point that everyone has the will and the ability to exercise self-determination, at least in the specific situation and provided that one is surrounded by people who have the knowledge and experience necessary to understand and respect one's will. I would like to highlight the announcement that originates from a moderate proposal, namely that on national guidelines for rehabilitation, habilitation and assistive devices. I am very pleased that today we have a broad majority in Parliament behind this announcement. Before I talk about the proposal itself, I just want to quickly sort out the linguistic concepts for those of you who may be listening and are not absolutely sure what the difference is between rehabilitation and habilitation or how this is linked to aids. Rehabilitation is meant to restore ability through interventions to persons who have been injured later in life through accident, illness or similar. Habilitation is the support and treatment given to children, adolescents and adults with disabilities to enable them to maintain and develop their abilities. Daily life aids are individually tested products aimed at maintaining or increasing activity, participation or independence by compensating for a disability. One tool can be health promotion and prevention as well as habilitation and rehabilitation. Madam President, I would like Rehabilitation, habilitation and access to assistive devices shall be good, equal and knowledge-based. Today there are unacceptable differences between Sweden's 21 regions and 290 municipalities in the provision of rehabilitation, habilitation and aids. In addition, the quality of these three areas varies considerably. There are also major differences between childhood and adult rehabilitation, and there are problems with the transition from child rehabilitation to adult rehabilitation. The lack of staff involved in rehabilitation and habilitation is a major problem as well as the availability of assistive devices. Moreover, these shortcomings vary greatly across the country. In addition, Madam President, responsibility for different types of rehabilitation interventions is divided into several: employers, employment services, municipalities and regions. This, to put it mildly, has its challenges. In many municipalities there are also voluntary coordination associations where rehabilitation responsibilities for certain groups are coordinated between the four parties municipality, region, employment agency and insurance fund, called Finsam. Madam President, I would like We live longer and longer, and that is, of course, amazing. One of the consequences of this will be that the demand for rehabilitation and aid will increase in the future. We must never forget that rehabilitation has no one's age limit and that it is the individual's needs and wishes that should govern. Having said that, we Moderates today are pleased that we are sending a very clear signal to the government: the government will undertake a review of existing legislation to then ensure equal access and strengthen the individual's right by developing national guidelines for rehabilitation, habilitation and aids. National guidelines are, of course, a form of instruments that support priorities and guidance on treatments and methods. Madam President, I would like It is regrettable that S and MP do not see the need for this to be done. In this context, it is of course relevant to point out that one of all the investigations that the government seems to have used to putting in drawers and not making a workshop out of is the Aids Investigation. It came in May 2017, and the question is how the government views it. Perhaps the representative of the government in this debate can answer that question. Madam President, I would like I would also like to raise the issue of personal representation, where Parliament also has a broad political-based announcement following a motion by the Center Party. Personal representative is a support within the framework of social services and is aimed at adults with extensive and long-term mental disabilities. Getting a personal representative helps people throughout the country who have the need to have access to society's healthcare, support and service on equal and legally secure terms. Finally, Madam President, over the last eight years for many families with family members with disabilities, there has been a sharp decline. Under the red-green government, insecurity and insecurity have increased and characterized life. For this no one is responsible except the Social Democrats who held the government power during this time. They have had the opportunity to also change and change regulatory letters but have chosen not to do so. Now perhaps a period of manna is waiting for the perspective to be able to retain the government power, but the other eight years should be kept in mind. The vast majority of us take our freedom and our almost unlimited possibilities for granted. The possibility of following a sudden incident is something we very rarely reflect on. We just do. But that's not how it looks to everyone. And precisely in order to care for the freedom and self-determination that we Moderates protect so strongly, the legislation surrounding LSS and personal assistance are so important.
i-J9zuuoh8TPqeMfVtqsAd5n	Madam President, I would like The report that is being debated today contains many worthy requests and also several announcements. But politics is about priority. It is also a matter of priority in terms of economics. Here I would like to ask a question to Moderater Camilla Waltersson Grönvall. Your party is in almost every question out there promising gold and green forests. We can take fuel taxes and defence as an example of new major expenditure increases. My question to you, Camilla, is: will you be able to ensure that the money is also sufficient for social policy, so that there is money left for all the reforms you are proposing in, for example, the LSS?
i-H9eF2JDeRDxkxvqUmeqBFr	Madam President, I would like It is almost astounding to hear a social democrat breasting himself on this issue. It is as if the memory of Mrs Dahlqvist is not so far. We have, of course, stood here on repeated occasions to deal with the paralysis that has constantly marked the Social Democratic-led government. I would like to ask Mikael Dahlqvist to contact some of the families I have had contact with, who have experienced eight years of anxiety. These families have witnessed a constant decline in security that is extremely important to them. That the last few months before an election do as the Social Democrats now do is quite typical. We know that we have been in politics for a few years. To say then that I represent a party that promises gold and green forests is actually amazing. If it is something that we Moderates are known for, it is that we take very great responsibility for the economy. It is also usually shown by the polls on voters' confidence in various issues. It is clear that we will take responsibility for all the proposals that we put forward. In the event of a government takeover, which for my part cannot happen quickly enough, it goes without saying that we will take responsibility for everything – everything from fuel taxes to defence subsidies and people who are in need of support and help in Sweden.
i-41vsKorSv1mm7xaptQN5ey	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall, for your answer! I'll choose to use a little milder vocabulary than you used. But it is clear that, as a representative of the government, you are becoming curious about how you can live up to everything you have promised. At the same time, you are telling us that you want to reduce taxes. For me, plus and minus don't really go together. Therefore, I think it is a relevant question that I ask you, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall: How will your money be sufficient for all the promises you make on all questions if you get the government power in the coming term of office? I do not think I received a sufficiently good answer to that, Madam President.
i-N8CFGnTb4SRKFnL7GvCnHX	Madam President, I would like I'm afraid it doesn't matter if I stand here for hours trying to explain to Mikael Dahlqvist. At least he'll find it pretty hard to understand how we Moderates think. On the other hand, he should be able to go back and see how moderates have handled the economy. It is not only once that we have had to deal with a broken Swedish economy after a Social Democratic government – it is not just one but several times. It is clear that we should take responsibility for this also this time. And there's a lot to do. We are in a Sweden with enormous difficulties and enormous challenges. It is about shootings and the great insecurity that has grown under the control of a Social Democratic government. We have seen an almost unimaginable paralysis in dealing with these problems. These are major integration problems. We should not talk about what the ordinary Swede is experiencing right now with concerns about how to simply afford to refuel the car to get to work. It has been tried to claim that this is the fault of the war, but I believe that the vast majority of Swedes have understood that it is about politics and how the Red-Green Government has chosen to deal with politics and what proposals it makes. But let me go back to the issue that is so important to me. I would ask you to note that I did not receive an answer to the question of how the aid investigation has been handled even when the honourable Member chose to take a reply. But when it comes to all people being able to feel more secure – from security for people in need of LSS and assistance to greater security in our residential areas – we Moderates will take responsibility for that.
i-L3BYiXFD37hKwkuXta1yP9	Madam President, I would like I'll start by reading a text: One problem that is evident today in terms of personal assistance is the Swedish Social Insurance Agency's assessment of the concept. The concept includes help with personal hygiene, help with meals, help with undressing, and help in communicating with others. The Social Insurance Agency's harsh and almost inhumane assessment of basic needs often leads to people who can bring food to their mouths and who can themselves dress or wash their hair no longer being considered to meet the basic needs. People who can't be alone and need 24-hour supervision because they can't plan and structure their everyday lives find it difficult to get help that meets their actual needs – just because they can put food in their mouths, for example. Where is the quality of life in that reasoning? These overly harsh assessments lead to an increasing number of people not being eligible for assistance or losing their assistance in case of re-examination. They also lose the possibility of inclusion and participation in society. The possibility of living a life like others is clearly limited. Madam President, I would like It was in this way that I wrote in a motion to Parliament as early as 2012, ten years ago. Now, ten years later, it was hoped that things would look different, but unfortunately they do not. For ten years we Swedish democrats have done what we have been able to do to ensure that all the elements are counted among the basic needs. We believe that it is completely unreasonable not to get support and help for the entire toilet visit, but only for the most intimate, or not to get help in putting on all their clothes and not just the clothes closest to the body. It is our firm belief that support should be given to the whole phase and not, as is currently the case, to the most intimate and private. I am therefore pleased that, after ten years, there is finally a majority in favour of drawing up such a proposal. For us, this is an important issue, and it has always been. The Swedish Democrats believe that a country's most important task is to ensure good welfare and to take care of its citizens, not least those citizens who are in need of extra support and assistance. It is one of the cornerstones of prosperity. Madam President, I would like While fraud against the welfare system must be combated by all means, it must also be ensured that serious assistance companies can continue to operate, not for the benefit of the companies, but for the benefit of those entitled to assistance. The hourly compensation companies receive for each hour is far too low and has not been increased in line with other cost and salary developments. As a result, companies cannot have training and further training and cannot allow new staff to go next to them before their first day at work. Above all, this means that entry wages must be reduced, and that does not attract more people to become assistants, which is actually becoming scarce now. This is why we want to see a long-term sustainable calculation model for assistance compensation, a model that better reflects society's other cost and wage developments. This issue was not really to be debated this year, but the Swedish Democrats took the initiative to bring it up in this debate, naturally in the hope that we would have a majority on this issue. We might have expected that the government would not support this, but the betrayal will actually be all the greater when even the Moderates or the Left Party cannot support it. It is not a betrayal of me or of my party, but in the end it is a betrayal of the assistance users. However, we will continue to fight both for the assistance users and for a long-term sustainable calculation model. I request the approval of reservation 18. Madam President, I would like LSS, personal assistance and the living conditions of persons with disabilities or other disabilities have deteriorated over a long period of time. I have said it before, and I say it again: it is impossible to ignore the fact that the signals sent by the government have been given rings on the water, rings that have knocked down the lives of many people. It doesn't matter what the government says, because the regulation letter 2016 and Magdalena Andersson's statement to dampen the cost development of assistance compensation have had dire consequences. There's no denying it. But now we have to ensure that those in need of help and support actually get it. The intentions of the law must be upheld. It is not reasonable, Madam President, that blind or visually impaired people should no longer be granted travel services. It is not reasonable that disabled people from one day to another, who by one miracle are suddenly no longer considered to be in need of assistance. It is not reasonable for persons with municipal assistance to be excluded from the review ban. And it is certainly not reasonable, but, on the contrary, totally unacceptable, for people on accommodation to act completely disgustingly through both physical and psychological abuse. Increased expertise in diagnosis and disease is needed to meet existing needs. There is also a need for increased competence in dealing with this issue. The LSS is lagging behind on many points, and this must be stopped. That's why we want to see a national LSS lift. What has been going on for a long time is nothing more than an unworthy lack of welfare that has been treated with disregard and slowness on this issue as well. I request the approval of reservation 18.
i-K6ek1PPDkcP9Rigb3ceYLB	Madam President, I would like I note that, during this term of office, the government has made historic investments in welfare. Billions and billions have been allocated to care, which we are discussing today, to health care and to school. I also note that we have had an offensive reform agenda for the LSS. It started already in 2018. It was the government that initiated an end to two-year trials. It was the government that ensured that supervision between interventions could continue, and it was the government that secured up in terms of breathing and probe feeding. In addition, there will be a huge reform in the spring when it comes to strengthening the right to personal assistance. Madam President, I would like My question to Carina Ståhl Herrstedt is as follows: in what way has the government and this Parliament, Parliament, changed the legislation so that fewer hours of assistance have been granted? I would like to know if there is such a decision. Madam President, I would like The information I have, Carina Ståhl Herrstedt, is that it is a question of changing legal assessments, that it is entirely a legal issue.
i-WvsEVTZ4VfLy2sLx1iawHJ	Madam President, I would like In my speech I have not talked at all about any change of law, Mikael Dahlqvist. I have not said that the government has taken the initiative for any change in law that would have allowed fewer people to receive assistance. It is possible that Dahlqvist will rightly take it upon himself when I say that for a long time there has been an unworthy lack of welfare that has been treated with disregard and slowness. But I haven't talked about a change of law that has changed anything. On the contrary, I have talked about non-legislative changes. Perhaps there should have been legislative changes, for example in relation to basic needs and more. As far as reviews, supervision, breathing and probe feeding are concerned, I must admit that things have actually turned out well. But it has not been so without strong pressure from the movement and from the other opposition parties.
i-N8Je1W7neYX2rbvo6ifzZ5	Madam President, I would like It is true, Carina Ståhl Herrstedt, that you did not refer to the fact that the government or this House has changed the legislation. But you indicated in your speech that the government has ensured that this has been done by means of regulatory letters and through our former Minister of Finance. Maybe it's a game of words, I don't know. I have another question I would like to ask, Madam President. The Swedish Democrats have approached the Moderates and Christian Democrats and can imagine some form of government cooperation during the next term of office. The Swedish democrats have promised quite a lot. The fuel tax, and so on, has been promised major billion cuts. How will Carina Ståhl Herrstedt ensure that social policy, and in particular LSS, is given priority in any future government cooperation? How will the money be enough?
i-8547t774dvcaYVxwyhoemz	Madam President, I would like Play with words, says Dahlqvist. Yes, you might think so, but words are very important. We see this not least in the regulation letter that was sent in 2016. Cost development would be curbed – the number of hours. And Magdalena Andersson stated that it would dampen the cost development of assistance compensation. It is not without consequences. You can't put that under control, can you? There is no one more than possibly the Social Democrats themselves who believes in that thesis. For me, it's not a game of words. I also do not think that people who are disabled or their relatives see it as a game of words. For them, it's a reality. The letter of regulation and the statement made have had devastating consequences. It is a fact, and it is a reality. It's not a game of words. Then there is how we can maintain the policy with the efforts we make. For us, it is customary – and we always do – to stand up for what we think. We'll make sure that happens, too. I do not know whether it is customary in the social democracy or for Mikael Dahlqvist to stand and promise something and then not to keep it or to go out and promise reductions without thinking the slightest bit about how to budget it. Mikael Dahlqvist himself knows that the budget work is not in progress. So at least I can't explain the details. But I've been fighting for the basic needs for ten years. I don't want him to think I'm gonna let go of that question right now.
i-ByMxKf4igmXJwgvZNPGBnS	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating issues relating to support for people with disabilities. Fortunately, we can see that we have gathered a majority on three important issues and that we can therefore make three announcements. Support for people with disabilities is a very broad area that deals with everything from assistive devices, rehabilitation and basic needs to the right to personal counsel. Overall, I think that the attitude on these very issues in many respects defines us as society. It is rooted in which society we actually want. With our policy, we in the Center Party want to lay the foundations for an accessible and personalised society, a society where everyone can fit and where we provide support, air and opportunities for everyone to develop and contribute. But if we are to achieve this, Madam President, we need a great deal of work and we really need to integrate the disability perspective into all policy areas. Madam President, I would like To move around freely in society, be involved in different contexts, be a part of working life, get on the streets and squares, open a can, call and book an appointment at the health centre and put on clothes and get ready for the day – all this we often do without thinking about it at all. However, the day you may lose a function or have a child with a disability is no longer a matter of course. Then you often struggle to do these things yourself or to get support to do them, or as a parent you struggle to get the right support and help. This is a fight that we must do something about. Madam President, I would like During this parliamentary term, I think we have moved disability policy forward in the right direction. However, I would like to say that it is almost provocative to hear how Mikael Dahlqvist and the Social Democrats take the great credit for this, because I believe that many other parties have shot the government in front of them. In view of the background and history that exists after eight years of regulatory letters, no to various improvements and so on, I feel that it is appropriate to emphasise that it has been about other parties having pushed, pushed and brought the government forward to bring about the changes that we have received, such as strengthening the right to personal assistance and a head office inquiry that has been completed. We have also ensured that the legislation on breathing and gavage has been restored. All of this has been done thanks to other parties that have shot the government in front of them. I think that we are taking further steps forward in the report, but that we are now taking steps forward in relation to the basic needs is not thanks to the Social Democrats either. I think it is incredibly important to point out that this is actually the case. The first step or announcement that I want to talk about here today is that we now have a majority in order to give the Head of Mission investigation a supplementary directive to produce proposals that all elements of assistance for all basic needs should give the right to assistance. Madam President, I would like In assessing the right to personal assistance, there is an unfortunate view in which people are divided into different needs. Basic needs include food, hygiene, clothing, toilet visits and communication with outsiders. Everything else counts as other needs. This kind of assessment has led to the fact that the lives of many persons entitled to assistance have been cut up in minutes and seconds where the toilet visits have been clocked and where you get help to put on the clothes that are closest to the body but do not get help with the outer garments. You get help with showering and getting clean, but you can't take deodorant or brush your hair. Of course, it is not possible to look at a person that way. The assessment must, of course, be based on the fact that life is to function in its entirety. To get assistance during the entire toilet visit or to put on all your clothes and not just for those moments that count as very private should be a matter of course. The fact that we now have a majority in favour of seeing all the help elements for all basic needs as a whole really feels like a victory. What does not feel good, however, and which makes me concerned is that the two major parties in the Swedish parliament, the Social Democrats and the Moderates, are opposed to the proposal. So the Social Democrats and the Moderates do not want the basic needs to be seen in their entirety, but instead choose to reserve and stand aside. Madam President, I would like The second announcement that I would like to highlight is based on the proposal put forward by the Center Party, which is about reviewing the current system of personal representation. Personal representative is a support that municipalities within the framework of social services can provide to people with extensive and long-term mental disabilities. However, there is currently no obligation to provide this support, which is a pity because it is a support that really makes a difference. People with extensive mental disabilities are a group in society who often live a little in the dark and who are not allowed to make their voice heard in the same way as other groups. They are often far from healthcare, justice and other services. A personal representative can act as a tool to strengthen these people so that they gain increased confidence in themselves and their own ability and thus gain better control and power over their own everyday lives. Through a personal representative, these persons can receive assistance in accessing care, support and service on equal terms, as well as legal aid, advice and other support based on their own wishes and needs. For us in the Center Party, it is very gratifying that today we have gathered a majority to review the system of personal representatives. The third announcement, which I am also very pleased about and which I think is an important step forward, is that we want to develop national guidelines for rehabilitation, habilitation and aids. Here we have seen that it is far too unequal in the country. One should not be dependent on what postcode one has or what the region's economy looks like, but what should be crucial if one gets good rehabilitation, habilitation or assistive devices should of course be one's own needs. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, one of the tools we did not get the majority to facilitate access to is glasses for children under the age of eight. It may sound like a parenthesis in this context when we talk about such important issues, but this is a large group that would really be greatly helped by being able to seek out a qualified optician instead of a specialist or doctor. The current regulatory framework is that children under the age of eight have to go to a specialist clinic instead of an optician, which means that waiting times for children to get a pair of glasses on their noses on average are 103 days. We in the Center Party want to change this. I would therefore like to endorse the Center Party's reservation number 25, which asks the National Board of Health and Welfare to review the optician code so that opticians are given the opportunity to prescribe visual aids for children under the age of eight.
i-KBBKzF4ZnxyZbKnVq6LAzo	Madam President, I would like A couple of weeks ago, I was interviewed by a woman who has children with disabilities. We talked about all the enormous challenges you face as a parent when society is not at all adapted to people's needs. The list can be drawn up as long as possible on all the obstacles that families encounter in their struggle to live a functioning life, not a life like others, but one that goes around at all, especially after the total breakdown we have seen for assistance in recent years. After we had spoken for a moment, I mentioned that, after all, we have made some progress on the issue of assistance. It was not that I was in any way trying to suggest that the ship had turned around or that we have now solved the major problems. I wasn't close to saying that the government has now redoed and done the right thing-- not at all. I just meant that there is some difference compared to my first time in this House when, together with other parties in desperation, I tried to make all other parties understand that people's right to their lives cannot have a price tag. In desperation, we tried to put an end to the shameless debate about cheating and criminality that undermined the legitimacy of one of the greatest freedom reforms of our time. It was a comparison with when thousands of people lost their assistance or did not get one at all and when the government nevertheless sent a regulatory letter to the Social Insurance Agency with a call to reduce costs. It was a time when people had their lives broken because the government didn't think it was their responsibility to adjust the law, even though this is exactly what we do here in Parliament – laws are made. The woman's answer to me was razor-sharp. She said, "I'm glad you see the difference in Parliament, because out here in reality there's no difference at all." We're still in crisis. In fact, the woman was absolutely right. The changes that have taken place have, by all means, been good, but for those who are affected they are actually minimal. Madam President, I would like For seven years I have been standing in this pulpit with basically the same message. People have their lives torn apart because our greatest reform of freedom has been ruined. People in our country are treated as criminals when it is actually politics that takes away their fundamental rights. For seven years I have stood here and warned that every person in this country faces the risk of getting into a situation where it is their own functionality that rules if you get to work, have children, go to the movies, go to the bathroom, shower, eat and have the right to a life. We all stand an accident or a destiny from losing our empowerment and self-determination and where economy takes precedence over our right to a free life. There has been a big difference in rhetoric during my time, but the difference in substance, as I said, is still quite modest. The legislative changes that have been made have met a small group but have not fundamentally changed the breakdown, but perhaps mainly have only dampened public opinion. We still have a situation where investigation after investigation of the assistance is initiated without leading to a major change. We get frightening testimony that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency still seems to be working as if they have the task of reducing costs rather than meeting people's needs. In reality, assistance and the person in need of it are still in a very urgent situation. Madam President, I would like To secure every person's right to live a life that others regardless of functionality requires boldness, great reforms and a genuine willingness to ensure that the LSS again becomes a team to be proud of. When, together with the KD, we produced a proposal for a committee initiative on state ownership, we wanted all basic needs to be assessed in full. It is one of the most essential requirements for regaining the basic intention of the legislation. But in order to get the Moderates on our banana, on the initiative, we had to start with the headship. But today, thanks to the skilled craftsmanship of Pia Steensland, we are moving on with the next really big step. Today, we will take the decision to provide additional directives to the lead investigation and to assess fundamental needs in their entirety. It is a demand that has been pushed for eternity and that our constant, albeit untied, ally of the Christian Democrats has set in motion. Pia Steensland is to be greatly commended for that work. It is actually a really big day because this is a decision that can mean real change. Madam President, I would like The woman I was talking about earlier told me that she couldn't understand that other people's children are being taught to protect themselves with... Stop! My body! In preschool and in school, her children are subjected to such intrusive treatment during the visit of Försäkringskassan that the child has severe anxiety attacks and outbreaks. The visits from our authorities that this family and so many others with them need to live through to apply for a right is a pure nightmare. It is nothing but a profound scandal for our country that the state treats people that way. It just can't go on. There is now a great opportunity to put an end to this. The government now has the opportunity to present a ready-made package, where assistance is given a government headship and where basic needs are assessed in full. As proud as I am that, after so many years, we have finally been able to get the issue of headship and the struggle for basic needs under way, we must be honest that it is still only investigations. It is therefore a very heavy responsibility for the government to move from words to action. But if the government does and listens to the majority in parliament, this will be a really big day for the fight to save the LSS. We have not talked about this at all, but I would just like to say that I am in favour of reservation 2.
i-5ozR98KA949VFVGXUPQdHA	Madam President, I would like Today I'm really happy, and actually also a little proud. At last, several parties have realised that the only worthy thing is that personal assistance should be given to people with disabilities during – listen and be amazed – the whole toilet visit, not as it is today just the time it takes to dry the butt, and during the time it takes to put on all the clothes, not as today just the clothes closest to the body. I would therefore like to extend warm thanks to all the parties that have today supported the proposal put forward by the Christian Democrats as the only party. With your support, there is finally a majority in Parliament that can correct the disastrous situation in which people's lives and families are being torn apart. Madam President, I would like At the same time, it must be stressed that this vital proposal can only become a reality if the government acts. As the Social Democrats have reservations about the proposal, it is still uncertain whether the government will comply with the decision that will be taken in this House tomorrow. This is regrettable. In fact, I had assumed that the Social Democrats would be ready to do it again and do it right, given that the former S-MP government is directly responsible for the assistance crisis that took off in autumn 2015. It was then that Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson, in his then role as Minister of Finance, stated that savings in personal assistance were needed to meet the costs of receiving refugees. The then S-MP government then gave a letter of regulation to the Social Insurance Agency with the directive to break the development of the number of assistance hours. Madam President, I would like An authority must comply with a directive in a regulatory letter. The Swedish Social Insurance Agency succeeded in this by starting to interpret old judgments from 2005, 2012 and 2015 much stricter than before. The result, Madam President, is that thousands of people have lost their right to assistance since 2016. It is also extremely difficult to get into the system the first time you are looking for assistance, whether it is a child born with a disability or if it is a person in the middle of life who is affected by an accident or a disease. The people affected are painfully aware that Magdalena Andersson's cynical statement was the start of the greatest cut in personal assistance since LSS was introduced in 1994 by the then bourgeois government. I therefore appeal to the Social Democrats to reconsider and support the Christian Democrats' proposal that all elements of assistance for all basic needs should give the right to personal assistance. It is high time that the Social Democrats pulled the emergency brake and corrected what was so very wrong. Madam President, I would like It should be said that the proposals that the Government is expected to present to the Riksdag shortly are important, based on the investigation into the strengthening of assistance. These are proposals that we Christian Democrats, too, have been pushing for a long time. But – and this is a big but – those proposals will not correct the main reason why thousands of people have lost their right to assistance since 2016. It is only the Christian Democrats' proposals that will do so. Basically, the issue of assistance is what society we want, Madam President. Should people with extensive disabilities be able to live a life of participation and full self-determination in their own lives or not? For us Christian Democrats, the choice is simple, because it is about human rights. The Social Democrats have been failing people with disabilities for too long. That is why a new government with a strong Christian Democratic influence on disability policy is needed. Madam President, I would like In addition to personal assistance, there are many other elements that need to be improved in order to facilitate the lives of people with disabilities. For example, rehabilitation interventions must be of high quality and be seen as a natural part of the care and treatment chain in order for the individual to have the best conditions for recovering or maintaining the best possible functional capacity after an accident or illness. The same applies to habilitation interventions for a person who has a congenital disability or who has had a disability early in life. Unfortunately, there are currently too many differences across the country in terms of the quality of both rehabilitation and habilitation. I am therefore very pleased that a majority in the Committee on Social Affairs has now supported a proposal from us Christian Democrats and the Moderates for the need to draw up national guidelines for rehabilitation, habilitation and aid. Together with the Riksdag's previous decision that there should be access to a medically responsible rehabilitation officer in all municipalities, the national guidelines will be able to create good conditions for structured care with individual assessments followed by evidence-based measures, follow-up and, of course, the right tools based on the person's needs. However, I am disappointed that we did not get support for our proposal to introduce a national framework for patient charges linked to assistive devices and medical devices. Today, fees differ widely between the 21 different regions, and that is unfortunate. I would therefore like to support the Christian Democrats' reservation 26 in paragraph 11. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats have many more proposals in the field of disability that have not been supported by the Committee on Social Affairs. Unfortunately, I do not have time to mention them in my speech today, but we obviously support them all. We also wholeheartedly support the committee's proposal for a decision. For those of you who listen to the debate, I can promise that I will not abandon the current issue of assistance just because the Parliament has now given its support. I will continue to do my utmost to pressure the S-government to act and to immediately realise the will of the Parliament. For me and the Christian Democrats, this is an issue that is so much bigger than politics. It is about human rights and everyone's right to self-determination in their own lives.
i-Gbvf8BwfxyyrFnwbExkjXF	Madam President, I would like The government has received criticism from, among others, the Christian Democrats for the fact that the ongoing investigation into headship takes too long from its establishment to its completion. Now the same party and its representatives want us to add additional missions regarding basic needs. This will lead to the investigator requesting an extension of time. This important reform of the headship will thus be launched later. My question to Pia Steensland, Madam President, is how she sees that it will take longer to get to grips with the headmanship. Madam President, I would like Not everything was gold and green forests before 2014 either. During the time when the alliance government, which included the Christian Democrats, ruled, the dismantling of the LSS began. As early as 2009, we saw statistics on the number of hours granted. At the time, the alliance government also stopped an increase in the flat rate for assistance hours. In the history description, it is important to give a true picture, Pia Steensland. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to point out that the Moderates are also behind this reservation. Pia Steensland forgot to mention it in her speech.
i-7J1Ny4RUDWwNG5KrmV2g6R	Madam President, I would like I thank Mikael Dahlqvist for the question. Yes, it is quite right that we Christian Democrats have criticised the directives for the Main Authority inquiry and that the Social Democrats put in bracks. It was about investigating other principals than the state and developing alternative solutions to a government headship. The Parliament was very clear. After the initiative of us Christian Democrats, the Left Party and the Moderates, it was a government headship and the details of what the investigation should focus on. Thankfully, the investigator has now stated that he will not review or consider a municipal headship, and we are very pleased about that. Yes, we have criticised the fact that it took the government almost a whole year from the Parliament's decision to the establishment of the investigation. There went a lot of time. Madam President, I would like Regarding the investigation period itself: If the government ensures that the investigation receives an additional directive to review the most important issue that can save the assistance linked to the assessment, it may need a six-month additional investigation period or so. But it will make the investigation amazingly much better. The whole thing, that is to say, a government headship and that we prevent the basic needs from being cut up in minutes and seconds, is what can save the assistance. I believe that those affected by the cuts will be able to endure a few more months if there is hope that the whole thing will be reviewed.
i-KzqkcN7XbW2vMnYJW78UB7	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Steensland for her reply. Let me remind the honourable Member that the Huvudmanship investigation is about the headship, and it is a major and complex reform if it is launched. One should not be afraid to investigate the pros and cons of a government principal, and this is what the investigation is for. The opposition assumes that everything will be resolved only by the state, but there is much evidence that this is not the case. I would also like to make it clear that we are not opposed to the revision of the directives on the assessment of fundamental needs. What we are opposed to is that it is done in this investigation. And as I said in my speech, the National Board of Health and Welfare has already been commissioned by the government to review how close to privacy care decisions can be taken in a more humane way. It is therefore little to throw stone in glass houses, Pia Steensland. My question remains: is it Pia Steensland's assessment that six months is enough to investigate these complex issues?
i-HAKzMBQbVw3McNALDtLUHw	Madam President, I would like The exact amount of time I am not competent enough to judge, but I think it does not take much more time. The Parliament set its foot on the fact that it should be a government headship, and then you should not waste time investigating something else. How 290 municipalities could take legal and equal responsibility for personal assistance is incomprehensible to me. I have never said that everything was fine under the alliance government, because there were problems then too. However, the statistics clearly show that the regulatory letter has a clear effect. From 1994 to 2009, there was a sharp increase up to around 16,000 people with state assistance payments. Then it stabilized there until 2016 when there was a dramatic fall when 2 000 people fell out. Then, among other things, the Christian Democrats forced a review stop, and had it not arrived in place, thousands more people had fallen out of the system. Madam President, I would like I question the fact that consideration is not being given to the whole of this investigation. It is positive that the honourable Member says that he is willing to look at the whole, but the mission that exists does not take this on board. The Riksdag has set its foot on all basic needs to be seen as a whole and not divided into small parts. It is this whole that will give a humane assessment, and it is also necessary on the issue of headship.
i-5GwprRQc4ruLWFPxNe5HGX	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to stress that I naturally support all the reservations expressed by the Liberals, but I am only in favour of reservation 19 under paragraph 8. Madam President, I would like It is a bit strange to listen to the interventions of the Social Democrats about how much the government has done during this parliamentary term when we read about and hear alarms after alarms and distress calls. It also feels strange that you take credit for too much that wouldn't have happened if I didn't exist. It was the Centre Party and, above all, the Liberals who pushed paragraph 64 into the January agreement, which made a great deal of progress and much is about to come into place. This applies not least to the above-mentioned investigations into strengthening assistance and headship. Madam President, I would like The Liberals are calling for an emergency LSS crisis commission to be set up to deal quickly with the silent disaster that is taking place daily in our country and which, not least, the two previous speakers have described well. The Crisis Commission needs to come up with rapid conclusions that in the short term will stop the rejection hysteria and the authorities' widespread violation of the law's purpose and intentions. Its work should be reported to the Government quickly, within six months, after which the Government should be required to return very promptly to the Riksdag with an action programme. This should happen before the September elections. However, the minister responsible has said no to this on two occasions. However, we will continue to nag, because the situation is urgent. Madam President, I would like The name of today's report and debate is Support for people with disabilities, but much revolves around personal assistance. Let me therefore remind you that the policy of functional rights and the LSS is so infinitely more. There are several incredibly important contributions, one of which is no more important than the other. Instead, they must be seen as a whole, held together as a chain and individually designed to work. The report also puts forward three important proposals for announcements. Madam President, I would like LSS in general and personal assistance in particular is about getting support to be able to live a life, their life. It is about being able to participate in what everyday life means, and it means for all of us to exercise self-determination. This should be governed by the person who lives that life, and then neither can nor should you be governed by what experts think is best. Who doesn't want to live by their preferences and be able to make their own decisions, sometimes good and sometimes perhaps a little less good? This is part of living your life according to your circumstances, and that is what LSS and personal assistance is all about. When all ten LSS operations are discussed and personal assistance is focused as it is today, the whole need for support must be looked at, all in order to get an overall picture of the obstacles to being able to live independently and participate on equal terms. Liberals want more of course to be able to get personal assistance. You have to be able to bring your assistance and get new decisions regardless of your age. There must also be better access to LSS and group homes, more and freer escorts and so on. Support for those with less extensive and less visible disabilities also needs to be improved. That's why you need to expand the LSS. I therefore believe that the government should and should investigate the conditions for establishing daily support, a combined support within the LSS, which is a pooling of existing efforts such as leadership, contact person, home support and housing support. It would provide support along the way for those people who may need it most in order to live themselves and make their lives a reality. This would mean that people would not have to live with several different legislations, different decisions and different people who make different efforts. It can be seen as one and the same support in everyday life, simply a daily support – hence our reservation today. Madam President, I would like Now we come to the burning question of people's needs. I'm happy about the announcement. It is a strong job that we have come here, something that has been hailed by the previous speaker Pia Steensland, and this is in many ways her credit. I think that each of us in here, Madam President, defines our own needs differently because it is precisely our needs, needs that can certainly also vary both over time and on time. What if we, Madam President, were to divide our different needs according to what is needed, basic needs and integrity-related? I believe that both the President and I would kick back quite a lot and argue that it is not possible to live one's life in that way. I apologise for using the example of the President of the European Parliament, but this shows how crazy this discussion is – that the President and I would be drawn over the same head and, in addition, would have to divide our lives into excellark, even if our calendars sometimes try to get us to do so, would be quite appalling. This is precisely what today's announcement is about, and today Parliament is taking a big step and saying stop to this. It's important. Madam President, I would like There is much in this report that needs to be highlighted and debated, but there is no time for this; I have already taken over mine. I will therefore conclude by emphasising a few more horizontal parts where we reserve our reservations. Liberals believe that in the longer term, after a crisis commission to try to save the emergency situation, we need to set up an LSS inspection that can actually go further. Just as we have a school inspection, which has worked a little differently over time but is still on the student's and family's side of the system, a LSS inspection is needed to keep track of the system and ensure that the individual actually gets what the law gives the individual the right to get. It is also a question of keeping tax money in order and combating fraud and irregularities, for this is theft from the individual in terms of rights and from the taxpayer. I support the proposal contained in the report, except where we in the Liberals have reservations.
i-WdoteHrgT6Xs4KHfkXGr4C	Madam President, I would like Of course, I agree with all our reservations in the SoU report12, but in order to gain time, I am only in favour of reservation 16. I am also addressing Mrs Grönvall, who mentioned the Green Party in her speech. She'll be happy to take a line and we'll have to talk a little bit about national guidelines. Outside my window where I live I have a tree. It allows me to follow the seasons all the time. The leaf cracking will happen at any moment, I feel. The desire to be out and to be able to smell greenery and the wind in your hair grows stronger and stronger. Being able to move around and being able to move around is important for well-being, health and reduced morbidity. In recent times, the connection to cognitive ability has also been highlighted more and more. D the physical health of persons with disabilities is significantly worse than that of the population as a whole, of course depending on the type of disability. Madam President, I would like If a person has certain functional variations that make it difficult to move, there are all the more reasons for society not only in its physical form but also through various support systems as much as possible to support the possibility of moving. Today there is a good and important support that means that a car can be adapted to your functionality, a car that you can drive yourself. I think it would now be time to look at how a bicycle support system could be introduced as a complement to car support. This is a support that can open more doors to freedom of movement, improved health, well-being and perhaps even cycling joy in the bargain. Today there are custom-made bikes that people with different types of functional variations can use. But they often need special orders and are of course more expensive. At present, only children can receive a bicycle allowance as a leisure aid. Both from the pulpit here today and from people we talk to and meet, we hear stories about how difficult it can be, for example, to get a job if you have a disability or that you as a parent constantly need to describe what the child cannot in order to get support. There is a feeling that you have to constantly make your child miserable. It can also be difficult to get the right access to assistive devices. In addition to the basics of getting the support that LSS says, there is still much to do to improve the life situation of people with disabilities. A bicycle subsidy is not the largest of all subsidies, but I think it could be an example. Another example that we have highlighted is that it should be clearly stated in the regulations that the efforts under LSS should be designed so that the siblings of the person in need of support also get the relief and the time they need with the parents. This is part of living up to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which is now Swedish law, in this case especially § 3, which states that the best interests of the child should be taken into account in all decisions concerning children. Madam President, I would like Sweden also needs to make up with its history. Many of us have spread knowledge of what people with disabilities have suffered, such as forced sterilisations. Many have had to live their lives in institutions. However, we do not have a coherent picture of the policy pursued during much of the 20th century and how it has affected people. However, in the absence of this picture, it is important that individuals and relatives should be heard, and they deserve an apology. And we as a society need to remember what has happened and ensure that this type of human vision never recurs. I have now understood that there are more parties who want the same thing, and I hope that it will really happen. I would like to conclude by mentioning that I am very pleased that there is a majority in favour of the report on headquarters now being given a supplementary directive that all elements of assistance for all basic needs should give the right to assistance. The holistic approach originally envisaged can now become a reality.
i-RKNBa2GDh1wAZ59GsRCqt1	Madam President, I would like Politics can sometimes seem slow, but we Social Democrats have done a lot for fisheries and maritime policy. We are proud but not satisfied. Overfishing has been limited, while jobs, the marine environment and the economy have been balanced. The Social Democratic Government regularly adds more money to the marine environment work, directs government agencies, invests historical sums in marine research, on efforts against eutrophication, against toxins, and on the clean-up of bottom sludge and environmentally hazardous wrecks. The UN Environment Assembly has now also taken the historic decision to establish a global agreement against plastic pollution. We Social Democrats have been pushing for this agreement for a long time. The agreement will reduce plastic litter and microplastics in our seas. We have been a driving force in Europe for fish stocks to be sustainable. Of the nine countries around the Baltic Sea, eight are in the EU. With the Social Democrats in the driver's seat, the EU's common fisheries policy has made a difference to fish stocks throughout Europe, including the Baltic Sea. Sometimes causality is complicated. But we promise to continue to work for small-scale fishing, for moving the trawl line and for strengthening cod, herring and herring stocks. We are now debating fisheries policy in this House. This is the fourth time in just one year that we deal with fish, fishing, the Baltic Sea, the biodiversity of water or its ecosystems. We in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture have also recently been able to agree fairly well on the fisheries policy and its measures. That is a good thing, especially when, shortly for Christmas, we developed nine measures to save fish stocks in the Baltic Sea. As far as today's report is concerned, we Social Democrats support all the committee's proposals in this report except for the so-called announcements, where we reserve ourselves with short justifications. We are calling for the committee's proposal to be rejected under paragraph 3, the overall review of Member States' eel management plans, and we support our reservation 5. For us, it is obvious that work must continue for sustainable fisheries and biodiversity. The eel struggles for its survival and is in acute danger of extinction. The Government has invested hundreds of millions of SEK in the work against eutrophication and for environmental monitoring of the sea and water to achieve Sweden's environmental objectives. Work is under way to provide hydropower with strengthened modern environmental conditions and to introduce a voluntary programme for the purchase of eel fishing rights. Work on transport, restocking of eel and better eel hiking routes is ongoing to reduce mortality due to man. The issue of eel management is addressed in the EU by Council Regulation (EC) No 1100/2007. The Regulation has recently been evaluated in the framework of the Council Decision on annual fishing opportunities. The International Council for the Exploration of the Sea has also strengthened its recommendations this year, and the Council has decided on how to regulate eel fishing. Madam President, I would like We Social Democrats are calling for the committee's proposal to be rejected under paragraph 10, the implementation and compliance of the landing obligation, and we support reservation 17. Without a landing obligation, some fishermen may throw some catch back into the sea, usually dead, in order to optimise the overall catch on board. That's not good. Since 2019, the landing obligation has been introduced throughout the EU, in accordance with the rules of the Common Fisheries Policy. The aim is simple: to avoid waste, promote sustainable fishing and the economy. The EU's so-called Control Regulation sets the framework for fisheries control and compliance with fisheries policy. The big picture is going in the right direction. However, recent data have been available on deficiencies in the landing obligation. Negotiations are under way on the revision of the Control Regulation, including to address shortcomings. For even better fisheries control in Sweden, the Government decided in 2019 to commission the Maritime and Water Authority to investigate and propose how camera control of fishing vessels can be carried out and how the landing obligation is complied with. Further funding was provided for this year both to the Maritime and Water Authority and to the Coast Guard to strengthen fisheries control. I would also like to remind you that Sweden, as an individual country, cannot promote compliance with the landing obligation in all Member States. This issue must be dealt with within the framework of the EU's common fisheries policy, in which we Social Democrats, of course, continue to be a driving force, not least in order to prevent Swedish fishermen from suffering competitive disadvantages. Madam President, I would like We call for the committee's proposal to be rejected under paragraph 13, the importance of fisheries to the implementation of the food strategy, and for our reservation to be accepted 23. Swedish professional fishing contributes to a vibrant rural, coastal and archipelago through jobs in the fishing, processing industry and other related industries. For many coastal communities, local fishing is an important part of the local identity and contributes to the attractiveness of municipalities for residents and tourists. Aquaculture is also an important industry with high growth potential in Swedish rural areas. The Government has previously commissioned the Swedish Board of Agriculture and the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management to develop a new common strategy with action plans for professional fishing, aquaculture, recreational fishing, fishing tourism and plans to strengthen the achievement of objectives in the maritime strategy and in the Swedish food strategy. In addition to this, the Government has, among other things, in letters to the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management, given the task of reporting the development and competitiveness of blue industries. The fishing industry and the conditions for aquaculture must be respected in their effects, work and decisions. The work will highlight in particular small-scale and coastal fishing and the contribution to Parliament's decided food strategy objectives. Recently, within the framework of the Food Strategy, the Government has also commissioned the Swedish Board of Agriculture to compile knowledge and analyse fish processing in Sweden based on capacity and production. This includes dialogue with industries and identifying possible obstacles and needs for more preparation in Sweden, in order to achieve the food strategy's main goal of increased food production in Sweden. Account should also be taken of fish processing from a preparedness perspective, which has been brought up to date in recent weeks with new wars in Europe. The mission shall be reported at the end of this year. For us Social Democrats there is always more to do. Our policy has an effect. Science has a natural place in making decisions. And our processes and organs can deliver. With a continued strong and offensive environmental and maritime policy, we are saving the Baltic Sea. The work must be broad, long-term with curiosity, be patient and take place on all the strings of the instrument. And the phrase that fits especially well as a description is: Many streams small make a large river. Because we know that rivers flow into the Baltic Sea. Madam President, I would like We support all three of our reservations, but for time winning we hereby only agree to reservation 23.
i-7oyHQLYfbXzeNbexPuCjau	Madam President, I would like In view of the war in the world around us, it can in many ways be awkward to debate fisheries policy, but at the same time not. Russia's invasion of Ukraine has caused the food situation in the EU and Sweden to change radically. In these times, therefore, we need to be able to produce more and more food on our own, and then farmed fish are an excellent example of things that we could increase production of. But then we need a workshop and a political craft that involves more than just new investigations, because otherwise we lose the few producers that actually exist. The blue industry also needs more efficient and faster licensing processes, as well as a comprehensive assessment of the authorities. It is clear that this industry has received a rigid response from and under the S-MP government. As is so often the case with environmental conditions, which have been seen to be too short and thus hindered the industry from making relevant investments in new and improved technologies. To give one example, the environmental permit process itself took nine years in the toughest case in the Land and Environment Court last year, while another took six years. Given that environmental permits often run for a period of 12 years, it is soon time for these producers to start their journey again in order to get their application through. This is not sustainable. The fact that the authorities work together is also important. But that's not happening. This is evident not least from the Swedish Board of Agriculture's 2020 report, which showed that the views between different authorities were so hesitant that a joint proposal could not even be put forward. It affects aquaculture and also reduces food production. Now we go again in waiting times for new final reports of different assignments to simplify different processes. It is not but, Madam President, that the patience of a number of players is greatly tested. The same is true of the government's meekness with regard to fish in the sea. Fish and shellfish are also of great importance to our food supply and are something that has nourished us for millennia. But, as we know, the fish have been hit by major problems. Decennial mismanagement, perhaps centuries, has caught up with us in the form of eutrophication, acidification, environmental toxins, littering and other things. These conditions mean that the environment is no longer sustainable for either fish or other aquatic organisms. In our vicinity, the problems are particularly acute in the Baltic Sea, as my colleague mentioned. There are nine countries that, through their activities on land, also affect the state of the marine environment. This is something that needs to be borne in mind. It's all about whole ecosystems that have to work well and be connected, otherwise there'll be problems. Fish are also like greenhouse gases: they ignore national boundaries. Just think about the eel's movements. It is therefore important that we see fish as a shared responsibility between countries and a common resource. That is why we Moderates think it is a wise policy that a great deal of this is decided at European and international level. Having said that, however, we also have a national responsibility to care for our stocks. In view of the alarming situation of fish stocks in the Baltic Sea, all parties here in Parliament agreed that the government must act. There were nine calls from the exodus of the trawl line to the test and to use the ICES Council for the Exploration of the Sea to gain more knowledge of Swedish conditions to improve opportunities for small-scale fishermen, updated management plans and more. But despite this important and small unique consensus in the Riksdag, nothing has happened so far. Questions put to the responsible minister are met by the argument that there is insufficient scientific evidence for one or the other. Instead, the Government refers to a mission that HaV will present in a few weeks' time. However, this is the same answer that the former Government started to give over two years ago. Nothing's happening. In this way, the S-MP Government has taken care of the issues while awaiting a proposal which we then know will take a long time to prepare. But as the grass grows, the cow dies, dear government. It's an important saying to keep in mind. Madam President, I would like I'm sorry if I sound whiny. It's rarely constructive. On the other hand, however, it can balance up some of the great praise that my colleague earlier here in the speaker's chair gave to his and the government's handling of these issues. For me and the Moderates, this is about issues that are of great importance for jobs, living coastal communities, fishing tourism and good food on the kitchen table. Then the government's downward priority over the last eight years deserves both attention and criticism. If more scientific evidence was needed by the government, these already existed. But it did not help that we Moderates – I know that the Left Party has also been on these issues – could point to research that recommended the removal of the trawl line. It did not help that we could refer to research that showed that the herring consists of different genetic variants where some play in the spring and some in the autumn and that then one could not run with the same management plan as one had for all years. Nor did it help us to invoke the use of the precautionary principle, which is in fact permitted in the common fisheries policy. And on the question of whether the government has now begun talks with our treaty partners Denmark and Finland on the movement of the trawl line on a test basis, so that the manegen is like being raked, the answer is no. We also find it bad that large trawlers are allowed to trawl ever closer to the coast. We in the opposition, coastal fishermen and the media have also paid attention to this. But the government hasn't cared. The HaV, the Maritime and Water Authority, has even granted exemptions to larger trawlers to fish within the applicable trawl limit, despite the negative effects this has on small-scale fishing. Many of you may know former MP Rune Wikström, who fish at Möja. He called me two weeks ago and was very sad. During two days of fishing he had got up 14 herrings, which was very far from a natural and ordinary catch. By his many years of experience, he believes that disaster is a fact. Then it is argued that coastal fishing does not fish out its allocated quota, but perhaps there are explanations. Today, we have, thankfully, been fired at the poachers seal and cormorants, but it was also a process in which a driving parliamentary opposition early saw the consequences of the policies being conducted. So it was thanks to a collective opposition. Madam President, I would like When the Corona Commission recently submitted its final report, a strong criticism was that the government and the Public Health Authority should have used the precautionary principle to protect the population. The principle means that one should not wait for full and better knowledge of the unknown threat but that one should act quickly and forcefully and then scale ne d if it turns out that one has taken in too much. That is how the President of the Commission put it. This is an approach that we Moderates are convinced would have improved the situation also in the fisheries policy and thus for fish stocks in the Baltic Sea. It is also an approach that many research groups advocate and that we sought in our many speeches to the government, but the government chose to turn a deaf ear to. It was unwise. Fisheries policy and the Baltic Sea had benefited from more workshop and adaptive management rather than just landing in style in the process. Madam President, I would like I request the approval of reservation 18.
i-63ynap4UQcKyihB9oywAXe	Madam President, I would like All of this, of course, includes dialogue with industries, seeking barriers and seeing needs. More will be prepared in Sweden to achieve the food strategy's goals with increased food production. Madam President, I would like What could really be missing? What do the Moderates think? I read directly from the Moderates' request, which forms the basis of today's proposal for an announcement to the Government that the Swedish Board of Agriculture should systematically monitor how local fisheries contribute to increasing Swedish food production in accordance with the objectives of the Food Strategy. It announces this to the government.
i-Jto6fXyvQ9NMRxKU5ox7p7	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Markus Selin, for the question! Markus Selin quoted one of our reservations, and I think we actually have about 30 in our fishing movement. I think this is very wise, as I think it is wise to act on behalf of the government and try to acquire knowledge. But you let it go in c linch and h does not move a small millimetre to try to get to grips with the problems that are here and now and are acute. We're talking about eight years of government experience, Markus Selin! It does not just refer to the investigation and strategy of strategy if it does not land in something that actually benefits biodiversity, fisheries, tourism and coastal communities. It won't hold. It is frustrating when we ask the responsible minister about this: we are not doing anything now, because we do not have enough knowledge. There'll be an investigation in two years. But the knowledge was there. Was it the wrong bodies that brought out that knowledge? That's what you wonder. Didn't it die that it was the Baltic Sea Centre at Stockholm University that did it? Isn't it good enough that SLU Aqua makes the same recommendations? I wonder and would like to know. Another thing, Madam President, is that I saw that when the government made its moves last autumn, it was talking about the marine environment bill coming in spring 2022. Where's it gone?
i-QuKMPwQKbvmaR3h5zfTL4A	Madam President, I would like It may sound tactless to talk about technical details of our fisheries policy at the same time as Russia's indefensible war against Ukraine is taking place. But with the war and increased food prices, our ambitions for living fish stocks and our own food supply are brought up. The three motion requests of the Moderates, which have prompted today's so-called announcement to the government, are unnecessary, i.e. concrete eel, landing obligation and the link between the blue industries and the food strategy. I noted that the answers of the Moderates to the questions about the food strategy and what is missing were very unclear and did not contain anything concrete. Consider the eel as an example. During this term of office, the Moderates have shown a clear cleavage in protecting the highly endangered eel. The Moderates were critical of the EU Framework Water Directive this autumn and are playing dice with, for example, demands on our water environment and hiking paths for eel. However, this is better than the previous term when the Moderates found it remarkable that the S-led government agreed with the European Commission that eel fishing should be banned. Instead, moderates manifested with the lattice of eating the highly endangered eel. It is now feared that only 1 percent of the eel hikes back from Swedish waters for play compared to what it was like in the 1950s. At the same time, the Moderates today write to their claim that eel fishing has only a marginal impact on the stock. My question is: how can these 172 000 kilos that were fished last year or the 2 1⁄2 million kilos that have been fished in Sweden over the last ten years be marginal?
i-DhcFL53YsoxzuPjapUq46z	Madam President, I would like Attack is the best defense, or what is it called? I asked Markus Selin a question, and it was something that many of us parties who participated in the work of the Environmental Objectives Committee find very interesting. That's where we agreed. We thought that marine environmental proposals should be developed, and all parties were involved. The government has apparently gone out and promised that such a thing would come this spring, but it has not come. That was my question to Markus Selin, but Markus Selin doesn't care to answer it. It worries me. We could have gathered a lot of the outstanding issues there. It's about having a holistic view of this. It is about actually seeing the entire ecosystem and how it is affected. We could have picked that up. Madam President, I would like When it comes to eel, the EU says that eel management plans should be made nationally every three years, and so does Sweden. SLU Aqua shows in its latest analysis from summer 2021 that there has actually been a turn in Swedish eel fishing since 2011. There has been a turn in the positive direction over the last 30 years. What we want is for the EU to make an overall assessment of what these eel management plans look like for all Member States. That's what the motion says. This is also proposed by SLU Aqua, not least when it comes to the Baltic Sea.
i-VwKMyLiZnMXDxkPDMP78kF	Madam President, I would like Of course, we support our reservations, but for the benefit of time we are in favour of reservation 6 in paragraph 4 on other measures to preserve the eel. The sea is an important resource and fishing is an important Swedish industry with old traditions. The Swedish Democrats stress the cultural aspect of fishing as well as the economic importance. The Swedish democrats see that the number of fishing licences today is around 1 000. But fishing generates many times more jobs in the food industry. In addition to being a good food, fishing is also an important component of Swedish food production. Since 1995, Swedish fisheries legislation has been subordinate to the EU's common fisheries policy. The common fisheries policy broadly covers all use of living resources in the waters and in aquaculture. However, the basic Regulation makes several important demarcations which allow EU fisheries legislation to be supplemented by national legislation. Fishing has always been an important source of nutrition in both Sweden and the rest of the Nordic countries with the long coasts and numerous lakes we have. Apart from fishing in inland lakes and rivers, Sweden's main differences between the west coast and the Baltic Sea region are to be found. While the much richer supply of fish on the west coast as well as its proximity to the Skagerrak, the North Sea and the North Atlantic has created the conditions for highly professional fishing, the natural resources of the east coast have given rise to a more seasonal binary fishery concentrated around certain dominant catches alongside other nutrients. In Sweden, most of the fish canning industry, as we know, has been concentrated in Bohuslän. Western coastal fishing, followed mainly by fishing in Skåne and Blekinge, is responsible for a large part of the employment. The surströmming industry, on the other hand, is concentrated on the coast of Norrland and is now threatened by industrial fishing, seals and cormorants. Fish smoke is often produced on a smaller scale and is important for employment in several municipalities. The Swedish EU entry meant that the Swedish fishing industry's markets grew. Customs barriers disappeared and employment increased. At the same time, imports of processed Norwegian fish were subject to customs duties within the EU. Fish farms have also become a more important part of the fishing industry. In Norway, for example, this branch has reached a dominant position and is much larger than in Sweden. The permit process for fish farming varies widely between county boards. It is a process that can take many years, as we have heard here. The permits are not only time-consuming and costly to seek; they are also time-limited. Therefore, the authorisation process should be reviewed to make it much simpler and faster. The validity period should also be extended. The establishment of new fish farms needs to be facilitated and the conditions for existing farms to expand need to be improved. However, there is legislation and regulation that hinders development and renewal, which slows down initiatives to promote new, less environmentally friendly cultivation techniques and the cultivation of new species. The administrative burden also needs to be reduced. Currently, several different authorities have responsibility for the assessment and supervision of aquaculture. There is a need for better coordination between the authorities responsible for the assessment and supervision of aquaculture. As we know, professional fishing in the Baltic Sea faces major challenges. The European Commission's proposal on catch quotas reduces catches for several of the Baltic Sea's commercially important stocks. The fishing quotas for herring in the Central Baltic Sea have been gradually reduced in recent years. The herring and herring stocks in the central Baltic Sea have also decreased dramatically since the 1970s and 1980s. Baltic herring fishing has now lost its MSC certification. This is the result of the latest ICES recommendations. The Swedish Democrats want to see a further reduction from last year's quota in order to come down to a halving of the catch quota for herring specifically for the Central Baltic Sea. This includes, among other things, the Stockholm archipelago. This is necessary for the recovery of the Baltic herring stock. Madam President, I would like In the longer term, eel stocks have been significantly weakened, which has also been highlighted at EU level. Everyone should agree that eel fishing must be regulated in the waters concerned. However, a one-sided stop for eel fishing from the Swedish side cannot be considered, as it would erase the unique eel culture that exists in southern Sweden, in Skåne and Blekinge. There is also another threat to Swedish eel fishing. Holders of eel fishing permits cannot transfer their businesses and the necessary licences to engage in eel fishing to another person or company. This means that today's eel fishing companies cannot continue their activities when the current licence holder stops. Transfers of eel fishing permits should therefore be made possible. The tough regulations are apparently leading to an increase in illegal eel fishing. The aim should be to reduce this momentum by not making it more difficult, as far as possible, for legal fishing. The problem of eel that cannot pass hydroelectric power stations should be addressed through more upstream and downstream passages, which are under development. But it's going slow. The Ålfonden was created to promote eel survival in the Baltic Sea. Money is set aside to put eel in the Swedish watercourses and work long-term to preserve small-scale eel fishing and to preserve the tradition of this fishing. It must be in the interests of a government to protect this rich fishing industry and the practice of the criminal and other forms of crime. The government should therefore review how Ålfonden's funding and other work on passages and more can be further strengthened. The search for shelter on cormorants is limited. Yet, despite the limit, researchers say it saves the lives of many eels, since the cormorants are happy to eat eel. It's called alkalka. Should you listen to nutrition and research? In an open letter to the Directors-General of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the Swedish Agriculture Agency and the Swedish Maritime and Water Authority regarding seal and cormorant problems, it is written that there is only a reasonable solution in the short term, according to the Swedish Fishermen's Producer Organisation, SFPO, which is the largest organisation for fishermen with members from Koster to Kalix. For many years, professional fishing has warned against the ravages of seals and cormorants in seas and lakes. The situation is described as extremely critical. Seals and cormorants eat 30 times more fish in the Western Sea than the Swedish demersal fishing fish, according to official figures as they say in the letter. The only reasonable solution one sees in the short term is to enable hunting for seals and cormorants with gunfire money as an incentive, because it has gone so far. It is recommended that 3 000 SEK per seal and 1 000 SEK per cormorant would be reasonable in order to protect our seas and lakes. It is believed that this socio-economically would pay off quickly.
i-6sWD9mob4hJY24U87FuxKy	Madam President, I would like In the report we are debating today, the Swedish Democrats support paragraph 13 on the importance of the FIS in the implementation of the food strategy. We Social Democrats are in favour of this amendment 23. I would like to remind you of what applies today. Madam President, I would like What could really be missing? What do the Swedish Democrats think? What is it that makes the Swedish Democrats want to vote in favour of an announcement to the government that affects a fraction of everything that is going on?
i-XuDhmHDR7iDvzCD7QaFr91	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Markus Selin, for the questions! We think it is important that coastal fisheries play a more prominent role and contribute to increasing Swedish food production so that it is in line with what has been said in the food strategy. We do not find it strange to support this. Of course we do. It is a little strange that the Social Democrats themselves have reservations about the national eel management plans and the action plan. We must save the European eel, which is under threat. But it should not affect Swedish fishing so that we become less competitive, which we get. As I said, fishing in Sweden has a marginal impact. It is not much eel that is fished up here if you compare it with what it is like throughout Europe. We do not think this should have to affect Swedish eel fishermen. It is still a tradition of old age that can suffer. The eel fishing has a long anchor. It is extremely regrettable that eel fishing permits should not be transferred from father to son, for example. When the father dies, no one in the family can fish anymore. It'll be over soon. In 20 to 30 years, we will no longer have any eel fishermen left.
i-HgTMkUuSWFRkE8wsNYGzNj	Madam President, I would like The attitude of the Swedish democrats towards the eel is a totally contradictory story. Looks like it's the day form that decides. Let me exemplify, Madam President. Try to keep up now! Barely two years ago, the Swedish Democrats not only voted for an announcement to the government regarding the protection of small-scale hydroelectric power stations, but the Swedish Democrats also wanted to see, through a reservation, that many closed power stations would resume. In paragraph 4 – on the preservation of the eel – in today's report, the Swedish Democrats reserve themselves. With the text in reservation 6, in the same section with the piece of art, they manage to claim that there is a negligible impact on the eel stock. At the same time, they say that a major problem in this context is eel that cannot pass water power plants. The Swedish Democrats also criticised the EU's framework directive on water in an announcement to the government last autumn and therefore expressed their willlessness to demand, for example, our water environment, hiking routes and our eel as hiking fish. It is now feared that only 1 percent of the eel hikes back from Swedish waters for play compared to the 1950s. At the same time, the Swedish Democrats today say that eel fishing is negligible. How can 172 000 kilos of eel fished in Sweden last year or 2 1⁄2 million kilos fished in the last ten years be negligible?
i-VnzUa8j9VRzE1A5pvzBEDY	Madam President, I would like This was basically the same question you asked Betty Malmberg. It is very important that the eels get past the turbines and hydroelectric plants. We must continue with the work that has begun with hiking trails past them and by putting nets and gratings in the turbines so that they do not get through and get hacked up. Mortality varies greatly depending on the amount of water, drop height and turbine type. The big companies still invest a lot in moving eels, putting out eels and making sure the eels can get past the power plants. It may be artificial breathing, but it is laudable work. However, things are going far too slowly, as I said earlier. It is important that we get more comprehensive and concrete work done so that something happens more quickly. This is really important. It must not take too many years or even decades, for then it will be too late. The work to save the eel is laudable. It concerns the work of all parties that have that entrance. The Swedish Democrats certainly do.
i-A887CfFTpn1z1jmUX3Cq2u	Madam President, I would like A fellow Member mentioned earlier that the current situation with the war in Ukraine makes many issues that we are debating here in the Parliament seem to be a bit of a trifle in this context. However, as colleagues have also pointed out, food production and continuing to take into account important environmental issues are extremely important, and we need to continue our work with great vigour. Madam President, I would like I would also like to address those who listen to the debate or perhaps read this speech afterwards. I would like to say right now that if you want to hear about the whole policy of the Center Party on the subject, you need to read full motion 3650. This is where you can see all the proposals in their entirety and in their context. As we approach the end of a term of office, a great deal of proposals are being made in a simplistic way. That is why it may seem a little strange when we raise certain issues in the debate, which we then reject because they are not even in reservations. It can therefore be difficult to follow this. I just wanted to give you an explanation for this. This is how it works. We in the Center Party are, of course, behind all our proposals, including those which are being simplified. We are also in favour of all our reservations, but I choose to endorse only reservation number 21. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, but it is exciting when you come into the debate as the fourth speaker and have heard the three previous speeches. The government has done nothing wrong. Above all, everything has been done right. Everything that can be done has indeed been done to meet the forms of criticism that exist in different ways. Betty Malmberg from the Moderates raised much of what we in the opposition parties have highlighted. That is a large part of the criticism that still exists because we have waited a long time for a lot of things to be done. I would also like to address the representative of the Swedish Democrats and thank them for the history and the fact-packed speech on the development of fisheries around our coasts. Sweden really offers a lot of water, a lot of coastline and great opportunities for fishing. We also have our nice lakes. Let me mention the advantage to myself that comes from Skaraborg, the country between Vänern and Vättern. There are rich opportunities for a nice inland fishing as well as for rural development with everything that is linked to it. We also have the long coast, as has been described before. It provides various products that are important to us. However, the lack, as has been mentioned earlier, is a major cause for concern. At the same time, one can be pleased to eat the best shrimps on the Bohus coast, which can also be sustainably fished in protected areas, such as the Koster Sea, thanks to the possibility of co-management. So we have good opportunities. The blue industries are not only part of Sweden's food supply, but they also provide jobs and local entrepreneurship and a growing tourism industry. There are also many cultural-historical values that can be preserved and developed. The identity of fishing communities can be highlighted. With the right political and economic conditions, these industries can grow stronger in the future. I'm not going to go into exactly all the nutrients that are in fish, but we've learned that fish is healthy food. It is important to highlight. But there is also great potential from the perspective of employment. Small-scale fishing is, however, under threat today. Part of the problem lies in the regulatory framework and in profitability. It also exists in the difficulty of rules for work tools and a complicated bureaucracy. The limitations of fishing in the Baltic Sea in recent years have also brought difficult trials to our fishermen and coastal communities. A recipe for success for many smaller fishermen has been to diversify their activities. They've started other parts. Unfortunately, the pandemic has often withdrawn the possibility of actually being able to carry out the quite touristic efforts that have been. It is the tourism industry that has given those opportunities. Now, hopefully, we are seeing another development forward. It is incredibly important that we then give the opportunity to simplify the rules, that there are good dialogues with officials at the authorities and that fishermen should be able to develop their activities in the way that they must be able to do. We in the Center Party have long advocated this. Madam President, I would like I want to get into another important part. It is about aquaculture both on land and at sea. It has a great potential to create jobs and growth while delivering climate-smart food. However, many companies and also representatives in the debates describe the difficulties in licensing processes. It is uncertain and complicated to start in Sweden, and that is not good. We need to do everything we can to increase sustainable food production in all its different parts. Right now we are seeing how animal production in all the different parts of food production is having an incredibly tough time with the large cost increases that are taking place. It is clear that it affects all forms of cultivation and rearing. Here we need to look at the new that can come and that the support that needs to be there really is there. It's about land-based fish farms. One example which, in any case, I know of is the fish farming that is going on in Säffle, for example. They are very exciting to follow in how it can develop. It now wants to ensure that the increased costs do not put a brake on this development. Madam President, I would like I want to explore the possibility of increasing and strengthening marine species wealth and naturally reducing eutrophication in the Baltic Sea and the Western Sea, among other areas. It is a question of promoting the possibility of establishing and managing blue catch crops. We in the Center Party have raised it in a reservation. There we highlight the possibility of making valuable efforts to grow the catch crops but also to use them. There is a benefit to cultivation itself, but also to the possibility of developing renewable biofuels, fertilisers and food. It is an important opportunity to strengthen economic activities also in blue industries. Madam President, I would like Fishing plays a big role, just as I've been in the past. I would like to highlight how we need to work from the political point of view to strengthen opportunities and strengthen competitiveness. We in the Center Party highlight the need for a national fisheries policy programme so that inland fishing, coastal fishing, small-scale fishing and regional fisheries can really be developed. We want to review the business conditions for fishermen. Among other things, the laws on authorised fishing gears need to be updated and the processing times at the authorities need to be shortened. In my speech, the text is bold, and I would like to say it emphatically: rules and administration must be proportionate to the activities carried out, otherwise it will be completely impossible to move forward. In this context, I would like to say that we know that seals and cormorants are a problem for fishing. But we write more about it in the exercise A sustainable hunt. There are many other things to raise. I'd like to finish with a few. It is about the possibility of generational change in the fishing profession today. The average age of fishermen is high. The obstacles to young and new fishermen wishing to establish themselves are very high. It is expensive to invest in boats and tools and make the environmental investments that need to be made. You need to have confidence in the future for the industry. The Center Party sees the fishing industry as an important industry for Sweden. We therefore believe that the government should take even more measures to facilitate the change of generation in professional fishing. This means, for example, that it should continue to be possible to conduct a dimensioned, sustainable, biologically sustainable fishing of eel. That is why the report supports the point that there needs to be a comprehensive review of the eel management plans.
i-B7zEJ1KiENxdi19qzNChQE	Madam President, I would like Working with maritime and fisheries issues in the Riksdag often gives a sense of hope. Here is an area in which, despite separate approaches, we can nevertheless agree that things need to be done. In the four years that we have soon been here, I would like to say that quite a lot has happened, and a lot has happened for the better. For our seas, lakes and rivers need action. It is fundamentally disturbed ecosystems that we are looking forward to today. These are due, for example, to overfishing, eutrophication and hydroelectric power, which for too long have been too low on environmental requirements. Strong political action is needed to tackle this in depth. A fundamental question is how we take care of the fish that is left. Streaming has been our latest species for great concern, and Baltic herring's problems have largely been linked to our fisheries management. In 2009, the government reformed pelagic fisheries and made fishing quotas buy and sellable. This is what we call ITQ. They gave it away to the fishermen who then fish the most. In this way, the market itself would solve the management of pelagic fisheries. This has meant that the fishermen who were then allocated the fishing quotas have been able to buy larger and larger pelagic trawls e. These are boats that can take 1,500 tons in a single load. This is something that we know most about salmon farming and animal feed. 1,500 tons is a lot. That is more than a number of coastal fishermen may spend a lifetime. According to the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management, 2009 was precisely the economic profitability they wanted. We have succeeded in that those who can fish a lot are doing well. But they didn't look at the ecological consequences of that fishing at all at that time and didn't think much about how the consequences would be for our archipelagos or our coastal fishing. These are things that we have seen later and which have created great problems in the present day. This is a system that has extended for another ten years. It didn't have to be like that. How we choose to allocate quotas is ultimately central. For this reason, it is also relevant to review the regional allocation. The regional allocation is currently 14% of TACs. In 18,000 tons you understand with a bit of fast mathematics that 14% is not much to live off. We need a revision of the quota distribution based on the fact that we want a sea in balance and a value-creating fishing industry. In order to achieve this, we would need a Commission today that takes a total vote on the consequences of fisheries management and ensures that we have an administration that reflects the decisions taken in Parliament one way and the will that already exists here. Madam President, I would like Last winter it was decided to move the trawl line. It was a decisive and very gratifying decision. It was an important step along the way. A united committee and, ultimately, a united parliament show every future government that this is an issue for which the parliament takes seriously and expects action. It is sad that the Minister for Rural Development has so far given very evasive answers and has not given any clear information about how and when the government intends to implement the Riksdag's decisions. The trawl line was created once to protect spawning and growing stocks on the coast and at the same time to promote small-scale local fishing. As Baltic herring stocks have become smaller and the need to protect spawning areas in particular has become particularly important, it is clear that this protection needs to be strengthened. The herring that is now caught, if caught at all by coastal fishing, is so small that it can no longer be used for processing or sale in the same way as has been done before. We know that the amount of spawning herring in the archipelago has decreased, that the average size has decreased and that the age of spawning maturity has gone no d. That's all the sure signs of overfishing. The herring is the engine of the ecosystem. P roblem a we see with, for example, seal and cormorant also comes from this disorder. It's all connected in the end. The fact that we need measures for seals and cormorants today is clear, but we also need to see that if we solve the basic problem itself and create a sea in balance, seal and cormorant stocks will also balance out. The fact that cod in the Baltic Sea is also currently thin can be attributed to the lack of food, which means that it is attacked by parasites. Reducing fishing pressure in cod's food areas is a must if cod is to have a chance at all, and a closure of cod in the Baltic Sea was therefore very important. The situation does not look any better in the Western Sea than it does in the Baltic Sea. In the Kattegat, cod stocks have collapsed after decades of overfishing. In the 1970s and until the mid-80s, landings of cod in the Kattegat ranged from 12 000 to 20 000 tonnes, and between 2002 and 2015 ICES consistently recommended a zero quota. It didn't listen to politics back then. Once again, we put short-term economic interests above the ecological ones. It has been of benefit to absolutely no one. There's never been as little cod in Kattegat as it is now. The Environmental Objectives Committee's report contains proposals on marine site protection. The proposal is that at least 30% of Sweden's territorial waters and economic zones should be protected through formal protection or other effective site-based measures by 2030 and that at least 10% of these should be strictly protected. These are proposals which we particularly welcome. Protected areas are a demand for coastal fishing. It is necessary to give Baltic herring the opportunity to play, stocks the opportunity to grow and balance the opportunity to return. These may be temporary areas in some places, but we also need more long-term protection in those places where it is relevant. Madam President, I would like The report we are now debating also announces that Sweden will work within the EU to implement and enforce the landing obligation throughout the Union. The landing obligation briefly implies that all fish caught and having a quota within the EU should also be taken on board and landed. It is very good that Sweden can be involved in pushing for higher compliance but also a more effective control regulation that gives the effect we want to see. We can then start by looking in our own waters and see what compliance looks like here. In the Western Sea, less than 10% of the catch dumped back into the sea is correctly reported. In the case of Danish vessels fishing in Swedish waters, it is not followed up by the Swedish authorities at all, which means that statistics are completely lacking. Between 2015 and 2019 approximately 131,000 tonnes of fish and shellfish were caught in the Western Sea. Of these, approximately 38 000 tonnes are estimated to have been dumped back into the sea. The removal of the trawl line, stronger measures to maintain the landing obligation and the introduction of more and larger fishing-free areas are some important measures to address the problems. I'll also say something short about the eel. It is a stock that is struggling in the headwind – against fishing but also against our hydropower. During the autumn we could see pictures of how the eels are affected by hydroelectric power and what a tiny percentage of them survive past the dams of hydroelectric power. The Council of ICES is a stop to fishing. However, the Commission has again taken a decision on a three-month closure. Many claim that fishing is not the great enemy of the eel. However, since we do not seem willing to take measures to reduce the mortality of our Swedish hydroelectric plants, fishing is what we have left to work with. If we want to maintain an eel stock and eel fishing, we do well to act quickly. Another species that is also strongly affected by our hydropower is the wild salmon. Environmental measures for hydropower are needed to address seriously the ecosystem disruptions and the loss of living environments created by hydropower for salmon. Madam President, I would like We know one thing: if we continue to overfish, the fish will really end. We also know that if we have no fish to fish, we will not have any fishing industry left either large-scale or small-scale. Protecting the Swedish fishing industry means that we must protect the fish, our seas and the ecosystem they are both part of. We have historically been too slow to react and act to save fish stocks. It has left us impoverished seas, fish stocks in imbalance and a fishing industry that cannot live off what it does best. It's a talking picture painted from previous generations when you could go out and pick up the fish you needed for dinner the afternoon you wanted it on your plate. It is a completely impossible task today. Last winter we were able to read – as in the example Betty gave here earlier – about coastal fishermen along the Bothnian Sea who threw out their nets but came back with six tiny herrings. This is something we need to take very seriously. Therefore, the government needs to act now to move out the trawl line, ensure compliance with the landing obligation, evaluate the ITQ system and put a management based on a sustainable ecosystem and not on short-term economic profit for a few. I have said this before in these contexts, but I venture to repeat it at the end: we have to ask ourselves what fishing we want. What benefits do we want it to bring to society, and how long do we want it to continue? It is clear to the Left Party. We want to see a fishery based on the Swedish coast, which is caught and landed locally and which contributes to a local processing industry as well as to local tourism. We want it to mean that people want and can live and work in our coastal communities and that there is both viable fishing tourism and a sea in balance that people want and can live by and off. We want this to be possible for future generations, in balance with nature and our ecosystems. Nature can be our best friend, but then we also need to treat it as ours. I request the approval of reservation 13.
i-95C7LA7cVZQvnxrmCCrgYJ	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by paying tribute to the situation we find ourselves in here in Sweden today, where we can express our views freely on the basis of our thinking and our activities. I think it is so strong that we live in this democracy when others have to fight just to be able to express themselves. At the same time as we are debating fisheries policy in Parliament today, Swedish professional fishing is struggling for its existence. The reason for this is elusive and accelerating prices of diesel. The price trend has led fishermen on many boats to consider whether it is even worthwhile to continue fishing. Unless the price picture of diesel is normalised, there is a high risk of a short-term shortage of fish and shellfish when fishermen choose to remain at berth. Swedish professional fishing is a small industry – it is, however, a basic industry. Whether it is local or regional fishing is as insignificant as small-scale or large-scale – all Swedish fishing is important for the food strategy and its implementation, and all Swedish fishermen are needed. My family on Öckerö has been fishing since the 1700s. It's about my father, my grandfather, his father, and so on. It's in the genes. It is clear that you then feel very strongly about the activities that have declined so enormously over the years. In my discussions with the largest organisation in the fisheries sector, SFPO or Sweden's Fishermen's Producer Organisation, I have seen how the fishing industry suffers badly from a non-functioning management authority called the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management. In addition, Swedish professional fishing suffers greatly from a large-scale expansion of marine wind power and lots of heavy regulations. The Maritime and Water Authority seems to be inflexible and does not seem to have the ability to make decisions that improve the fishing industry. Madam President, I would like We are constantly hearing about overfishing, but the reality is that the utilisation rate of Swedish quotas really needs to be improved. It is not good enough that what is sustainable in the long term, i.e. the quotas, is not made possible for full use. Demanded species such as Norway lobster and shrimp are not optimally fished, and the reason for this is not that fishermen do not want to fish. The reason is the lack of proper management. In 2021, not even half of the quota for Norway lobster was fished and about 20 % of the shrimp quota was not fished. The utilisation rate of Swedish quotas needs to be improved; doing so works in accordance with the purpose of the food strategy. Swedish fisheries do not use the EU's common quotas either. Madam President, I would like The Green Party is talking about improving the conditions for small-scale coastal fishing. But what about the knowledge of fisheries, or, for that matter, fisheries policy? One example of this is when the Green Party wants to move the trawl line along the Halland coast to promote small-scale coastal fishing. The effect of such a so-called benefit would lead to bankruptcy for those who claim to be in favour. You still have to have knowledge in order to be able to have relevant factual views. Environmental parties have also exercised that MSY is wrong, but MSY is one of the cornerstones of the common fisheries policy. MSY represents maximum sustainable yield, and it can be described as the largest annual yield a fish stock can produce in the long term – i.e. how much fish can be absorbed annually without reducing the stock. Madam President, I would like An important aspect is the importance of fishing grounds. Good and important fishing sites should not be considered at all as areas for marine wind farms, but as it is today, it is a clean cut-off from the wind industry. Sweden needs a long-term sustainable energy supply, and then it does not work with a large part of energy production that only works if it blows. Good fishing spots are important for fishing, for the market for fish products, for the degree of self-sufficiency and for the ability of consumers to access Swedish seafood products. I turn to another of the most important issues in this context, and that is that Swedish demersal fisheries need a further development of the system – from today's annual to a multi-annual system. For the uninvited, demersal fishing is about demersal species or those living near the bottom, such as cod, red spit, Norway lobster and shrimp. Fishing opportunities must be transferable. Fishermen must also be given the opportunity to get rid of so-called quota boats, which remain in the fleet only because the regulatory framework provides for it. These quota boats only cost the fishing industry money without doing any good. Through a solidarity-based multi-annual system, a more profitable Swedish demersal fishing is possible. Sweden must give the demersal fishing industry competitive conditions similar to those of other Member States. Fishermen must be given a better planning horizon, better opportunities to exchange fishing opportunities with other countries and thus better conditions for economic profitability. Such a system would be solidarity-based and would benefit small-scale fishing, which so many people are taking up here today. Madam President, I would like Let me finish with some thoughts about the eel, this mysterious fish. Swedish eel fishing has been forced to take enormous responsibility and has been affected more than other nations' eel fishing. An overall evaluation of Member States' eel management plans is necessary, because if Swedish eel fishing is to remain, it is required that measures not only affect Swedish fishermen. Other Member States must take on as much responsibility as Sweden has. The most important thing is measures against eel mortality. The biggest eel killing takes place in hydroelectric power plants, 24 hours a day and 365 days a year. The eel is not endangered, but it is threatened. If Swedish eel fishing goes to the grave, it is a coastal heritage that we lose. Having said that, I agree with the reservations and motions of the Christian Democrats, but for the benefit of time, I only call for reservation number 3.
i-YHUTruBdpy9nVq5EfVmzHh	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the Liberals' Amendment No 4, which deals with closure times and fishing-free areas. Of course, we are in favour of all our other proposals, but I am only in favour of reservation number 4. Fishing is an important industry, but for fish stocks to remain and be viable, fishing needs to be carried out in a sustainable way in the long term. My colleagues have certainly been into all of this, with slightly different approaches. We have to take care of our seas. They must not become lifeless dumps. Fishing must remain within the limits of the stock's acceptability and the decision on quotas must be based on a scientific basis. Sometimes when you hear the debate, you can think that we kind of need a fish wonder, where we come in with the boat to land and do not have empty nets. But it's not that simple, but we need to rest all the time on science and not just on assumptions. Sometimes it is perhaps really a question of thinking about, like throwing the nets out on the other side or introducing an emergency fishing stop, in order to have sufficient measures. The rules shall favour small-scale and coastal fishing. There is a need for fishing methods and fishing gear that is gentle. EU fisheries policy has produced some positive results, but the situation of many of Europe's fish stocks remains serious due to overfishing and environmental degradation. Liberals want to see sustainable fishing from mountains to coast. We talk about that a lot. Large-scale trawling in Swedish waters needs to be reduced in favour of near-coastal yarn, hook and sport fishing. The quotas should, once again, be based on science and given from an ecosystem perspective. Coastal areas in particularly sensitive areas may be subject to fishing permits; these may include estuaries, known hiking routes or shallow bays where regulated fishing may seem beneficial. Work to realise the vision of a functioning migration of fish from coast to hinterland must continue. That's why the Liberals want to work to reconsider environmentally harmful water judgments. Water dooms that allow the drying of rivers need to be prioritised, but we also want to work to ensure that already dried rivers are restored to flowing water. Liberals also want to work to dismantle inefficient or illegal dams. The state must support power plant and dust owners with funds so that they can afford to tear down the dams if necessary. It is important to restore destroyed aquatic environments in our country. There are always exceptions for highly protected ponds that can have historical or cultural value. Madam President, I would like Well-being seas are a prerequisite for solving world poverty and climate threats. A swarm of subsurface life is an important part of our ecosystem that we do not always look at or think about. At the same time, many fish stocks are threatened by unsustainable fishing. If the seas are to function as a significant renewable resource, they must be exploited in the long term and sustainably, through responsible management. Many measures are needed to create good habitats for fish and spawning areas. The EU has long had an unsustainable fisheries policy. Too much attention has been paid to the short-term interest of the fishing industry, at the expense of the environment and fish stocks and therefore at the expense of the long-term interests of fishing. The EU must give priority to the environmental perspective of fisheries and encourage the fishing industry to take responsibility for its own future. Then we will come to the implementation and compliance of the landing obligation and that this will be extremely important for us to be able to create sustainable and selective fishing. This has been the case since 2019, but we see shortcomings in compliance. This applies not least to the lack of reliable statistics on discards, but also to shortcomings in the monitoring of compliance with the landing obligation. It cannot be the case, Madam President, that Swedish fishermen cannot compete in the same way and under the same conditions as fishermen in other Member States. We need a fisheries policy that is followed and respected. Madam President, I would like We are now facing a new era. We have one before and one after the war in Ukraine. That is why we need to look with new eyes at the importance of fishing for our food strategy. We know that Swedish fishing contributes to our dining table, but this contribution is unfortunately limited today. Fish prices rise as we stand here today and speak. That cannot continue to be the case. That is why small-scale fishing becomes even more important than we might have thought of in the past, not only in order to maintain living coastal communities, but also in order to ensure that we get fish served on the table in times of crisis and war. The same applies to the processing industry. We must also create jobs and growth along our coasts and on our inland and watercourses. From this speaker's seat, we repeat over and over again that small-scale coastal fishing needs to increase. This increases the number of jobs in the fishing industry while preserving culture and growing and developing the archipelago environment in Sweden's countryside. Unfortunately, this is threatened not only by cormorants and seals but also by the rigidity of the regulations. Today, we have considered that the regulatory framework needs to be clearer and to take less time without lowering environmental requirements. The government should take the initiative to make the regulatory framework for the transfer of fishing rights more acceptable. Madam President, I would like Sustainable fishing is about fishing in a long-term and sustainable way that means that different species of fish are not eradicated. Fishing must remain within the framework of scientific assessments of the stock's acceptability. At the same time, improved monitoring is needed in order to comply with the rules on the quantity of fish that may be fished. It is important, among other things, that the ban on bottom trawling is complied with. It is therefore a good thing that Sweden's line in the negotiations on the new control regulation has been very clear. The control measures shall be effective, cost-effective and proportionate and lead to improved and effective fisheries control without increasing the overall administrative burden on the small enterprise. Sweden needs living coastal communities. Their potential to develop local business and tourism is great if we help and support them properly. By working sustainably, environmental conditions are also protected. The long-term sustainable development of fish stocks requires a functioning ecosystem. It is therefore a good thing that we are now pushing for simplification of the rules in EU-wide negotiations on various management measures and technical regulations. Again, science needs to come first, because it allows us to put the fish first.
i-GGV89z9MTLimx7C3GPihvo	Madam President, I would like This debate began with Markus Selin of the Social Democrats saying that the government has taken historic action for the sea. That is right, and it is thanks to the Green Party. It is surprising that the Social Democrats are not going forward with a marine environmental bill when we had a united environmental policy preparation. It is equally surprising that we do not have any action on the part of the government on the issue of moving the trawl line by 12 nautical miles, especially because the Social Democrats here in Parliament supported the proposal. Madam President, I would like Industrial trawling cannot continue in our seas. We must save fish stocks instead of seeing the last herring become herring meal. There is no lack of scientific evidence, and there are tools in the toolbox of the EU's fisheries policy. I would like to say to Roland Utbolt that we in the Green Party do not want to phase out MSY, but we point out that it has been interpreted incorrectly. Madam President, I would like Some 98% of the European eel has disappeared since the 1950s. The International Council for the Exploration of the Sea now recommends a total stop for all eel fishing in all waters and in all habitats everywhere. The Green Party wants to see a total stop for eel fishing. The argument from other parties is usually that we must preserve eel fishermen in order to preserve the eel fishing tradition. This is good, but without eels there is no eel fishing tradition to preserve. In recent years Sweden has reported that it has fished 180 tonnes of eel each year. These are not marginal figures. A total stop for eel fishing would make it a very positive effect on the eel stock. But it is not only fishing that affects the eel. It is estimated that about 100 tonnes of eel die each year in the Swedish hydropower plants' turbines. That is why we must also take action there and speed up work on free hiking routes for eel and other fish species upstream and downstream in Swedish waters. Madam President, I would like The blue cabbages that swim towards the Sargasso Sea to play should not run the risk of being fished up. We need a new eel management plan, but we also need to stop Swedish eel fishing. An end to all eel fishing also means that Sweden must stop importing millions of eels from, among other things, the UK and France to fatten eels in Swedish waters. The eel is a mythical species in Swedish nature, but it must not only be found in fairy tales. It must also be found in our Swedish watercourses. If it does not, it is a violation of the international conventions on biodiversity that Sweden has signed and of the principles of sustainable fisheries in the common fisheries policy. Save the eel! I request the approval of reservation 7.
