i-UmfJfcJsMc7KGmDgnc2JmQ	Madam President, I would like Johan Hultberg has asked me whether I am prepared to take the initiative in identifying regional differences in diabetes care as well as in setting up a national diabetes coordinator, and if not, what other measures the government intends to take to develop diabetes care in general and to reduce regional disparities in particular. Furthermore, Johan Hultberg has asked me whether I intend to commission the National Board of Health and Welfare to analyse or take any other measures aimed at addressing the problem of a lack of psychosocial support. Finally, Johan Hultberg has asked me if I am prepared to take the initiative for a national support and advice function in order to give Sweden's diabetics improved access to support and advice. Diabetes is one of Sweden's major diseases. Prevention is important, as is safe and knowledge-based care. According to the Health Act, it is the responsibility of the regions to provide healthcare. For me, it is important that the Swedish population should be offered a need-adapted and efficient healthcare of good quality. That, of course, includes diabetes care. The government is therefore working to support the development of health care throughout the country. The task of the National Board of Health and Welfare is to provide support for healthcare, and the Agency develops national guidelines that provide guidance for healthcare providers. The National Guidelines for Diabetes Care were updated in 2018 following a review, and the Authority considers that the guidelines are important for the good and equal care of people with diabetes. The guidelines include recommendations on group-based education programmes for people with diabetes with the support of people with both subject competence and educational competence. It is the task of the National Board of Health and Welfare as an expert authority to consider whether the guidelines need to be evaluated or updated when, for example, it concerns psychosocial support. The National Working Group on Diabetes has developed important guidelines and teaching materials and is part of the national programme area for endocrine diseases, which is run by Sweden's regions in collaboration. There is also a study on whether young adults get better glucose control via a virtual diabetes clinic. They can continuously reach their doctor or diabetes nurse through text message or video meeting via a special app through, for example, their smartphone. I very much welcome the fact that studies are ongoing on how diabetes care can be improved. In the case of medical devices, the Dental and Pharmaceutical Benefits Agency has since 2019 a permanent government mandate to make health economic assessments of medical devices, including insulin pumps. The aim is to contribute to a more knowledge-driven and equal use of medical technology throughout the country. Diabetes care in Sweden has a long tradition of quality monitoring with the help of the National Diabetes Register. The register contributes to a more equal and equal diabetes care and will enable comparisons within healthcare at both national and regional level. During 2022, the Government will allocate SEK 74.5 million for the further development of national quality registers. When it comes to support and advice for diabetics, it is important that regions ensure that diabetes care is available and can provide good support based on patients' needs. If you need emergency medical advice all hours of the day, there are 1177 Vårdguiden and, in case of emergency problems, emergency clinics and emergency clinics if necessary. Primary care is a central part of diabetes care. During 2022, the Government allocates SEK 3 billion to strengthen primary care through the development of close care. In addition, the Government has submitted legislation to strengthen the right to permanent medical contact. Through coherent person-centred care and by allowing everyone to choose a permanent doctor's contact at their health centre, people with chronic diseases, including diabetics, can get better care. In addition, health promotion and disease prevention can be strengthened. Overall, I assess that these efforts contribute and will contribute to a better care for people with diabetes. The government is following the issue, and I am not ruling out further measures.
i-PnFp4pLz8yqiX1m14zSLeA	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his response to my interpellation on measures to improve diabetes care. Swedish diabetes care really keeps a very high level in an international perspective. It is a care that we should basically be very proud of. At the same time, we must not settle down and content ourselves with the care we have today, but must constantly do what we can to develop it and make it much better. After all, it is in this way that, in addition to the internationally good results, we also have major and serious deficiencies in diabetes care. We also have quite unjustified regional differences in health care. Much of what needs to be improved is not really strange. For example, many of the shortcomings and problems would disappear, Madam President, if only compliance and compliance with the national guidelines were better. In my interpellation I describe some of the problems and shortcomings that exist in Swedish diabetes care. I highlight the problems of unjustified differences in health care, which are, above all, differences between the regions, but which also exist within the regions between different clinics and health centres. This is a general problem that applies to Swedish health care in general and is a failure for the government. In diabetes care, however, the problem may be particularly evident. This is not least one of the areas that I highlighted in particular in my interpellation, namely the availability of modern medical technology in the form of advanced systems for continuous gl u cos measurement and advanced insulin pumps. It should not be a postcode lottery that determines what aids you as diabetics get, but it should of course be guided by the need. Madam President, I would like I really like technology. I am convinced that the rapid development that we are now seeing of sensors and increasingly advanced and independent insulin pumps combined with the digitalisation of care in general will completely revolutionise diabetes care. Thanks to continuous gl u kos measurement, a fantastic foundation and fantastic conditions are created for a much more personalised care, as well as for research and development of care in general. But simple technology is also not salutative. Where's the counselor, psychologist and therapist? That question asked Ida Lindstén and Sara Hammer from the organisation Ung Diabetes in a debate article in Dagens Medicin a couple of years ago. Unfortunately, the question is as legitimate today as it was at the time. Many diabetics are in great need of psychosocial support, but too few receive it. This is the background to my interpellation.
i-5awYVS6zBYmsD6CzHAwohz	We Moderates have put forward a wide range of proposals, which we are presenting in our special exercise on diabetes care, and several of them I have highlighted in my interpellation. Unfortunately, I did not understand that the Minister said yes to any of the proposals I made. Nor did I hear the Minister make any proposals of his own.
i-WQ7Niz9F6ojUfqqJK7Gqvg	Madam President, I would like Now that we have this debate, I'm thinking a lot about one of my best friends' dad who passed away last weekend. He got diabetes when he was four years old. He lived a long life and, of course, was involved in a completely revolutionary development. Children who today have diabetes are likely to have to live with diabetes throughout their lives, even though we do not know what research and technology can enable them to live their lives with as little impact as possible. It is always interesting to discuss health care with Johan Hultberg, and I do not think we are very far from each other in wanting diabetes care better. But I think it's good to look at how health care is managed today, including diabetes care. The National Board of Health and Welfare has developed national guidelines, and it is also on an ongoing basis to review which support is deemed necessary, such as psychosocial support. Sweden's Municipalities and Regions also work with knowledge management in 16 national patient areas, and diabetes is one of them. I believe a lot in this knowledge management where you both learn, collaborate and cooperate. There are 16 regions with their own regional diabetes coordinators, and so far no one has called for a national coordinator. This will probably have to come from the National Board of Health and Welfare or from the regions if we are to take a measure that will examine the work that the regions are doing. Johan Hultberg is happy to publish the text on why the proposals presented in his interpellation are particularly suitable for diabetes care. What is it that speaks for it rather than a continued knowledge management and how we work with supervision and quality registers? The Diabetes Register has quite a few years on its back and has really been able to guide us. Once again, the work carried out by the regions is successful, but as long as there are differences, of course, we want more. It is good that Johan Hultberg highlights the difference not only between regions but also within regions. That is exactly what it looks like, and it certainly calls for reflection on how each region works. Obviously there is much knowledge, so what makes it not reach out in the capillaries? What prevents everyone from receiving the same good care or from achieving the same good results? These are questions well worth considering. Johan Hultberg may be able to devote the next post to describing why diabetes care would be particularly suitable for these specific measures. My picture is that there are guidelines, registers and resources. We also have the primary care bill presented by the government, but if I don't remember correctly, the Moderates want to reject it. But wouldn't it be reasonable to have a resident in primary care? Not least, patients with diabetes would benefit greatly from having a permanent care contact in the form of a fixed doctor.
i-XBrpqCdaNE9pCg6dxWCCBf	Madam President, I would like I am convinced that I and the Minister share the desire to develop Swedish diabetes care. However, I am somewhat frustrated that the Minister is taking such a receding role. I think, of course, just like the Minister, that the responsibility for providing and operating good health care is first and foremost the responsibility of the regions. They're the carers. However, we national politicians must be able to see the problems that exist. The national guidelines are an important tool for developing Swedish healthcare in general as well as specifically in diabetes care, which we are now discussing. As the Minister mentioned in his first speech, the national guidelines for diabetes care were updated in 2018, and this was an important and good work. My point is that developing national guidelines is not enough. They also need to be implemented and complied with. Paper tigers do not improve care. Therefore, it would have been interesting to look at the example of cancer care where a national cancer coordinator was introduced to develop cancer care and reduce regional disparities. I believe that a similar approach could be applied in diabetes care. But if the Minister of Social Affairs has other and better suggestions, I'm all ears. My focus for this debate is that we should discuss solutions to the problems and challenges we both hope to see. As far as inequality is concerned, it is clear that non-compliance is lacking. For example, the Minister mentioned the guideline on group-based training programmes. According to the national guidelines, everyone with diabetes of any type should be offered a group-based patient training. However, a study conducted by the Diabetes Organization in Sweden, Dios, together with the Stockholm Diabetes Association, showed that eight out of ten patients have not been offered patient training. My conclusion is that we need to look at what we can do to improve compliance with the national guidelines, not just refer to them. Then it would be good to have a national coordinator. Not least, a good first step had been to carry out the national mapping of the causes of non-compliance and of the large regional disparities in healthcare. There is a major problem with this postcode lottery, not least in terms of the availability of medical devices. This also applies to support at school and much more where the differences are large and where there is a great frustration in all those who live with diabetes or have children with diabetes. The Minister highlighted the importance of the National Diabetes Register. The same is true here: it does not in itself lead to better health care. It is a tool, a basis for developing care. When it clearly shows major regional differences, we must take the next step and ask ourselves what we can do to address them. So again, what measures is the government prepared to take? Are you, for example, prepared to commission the National Board of Health and Welfare to look at how to strengthen psychosocial support because there are a few diabetics who receive it even though many people ask for it?
i-Q4b1ziQCvHjjeeBeBHCren	Madam President, I would like It is not possible to get away from seven out of ten regions being ruled by Moderates, Johan Hultberg. However, there is perhaps a dialogue between Johan Hultberg and representatives of the Moderates in different regions where they really want this and they feel that they cannot do the task they have, which is to follow national guidelines and to make use of the guidelines and recommendations available from the TLV. A regional coordinator does not mean that it only coordinates itself within the region, but also between regions through cooperation and cooperation. I am not saying that no more needs to be done, but the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has not specifically pointed to these efforts, nor Swedish Municipalities and Regions, nor any specific region. I object to the description of Swedish healthcare as a postcode lottery. I have to say that I think it's a little too effective. Something that has been important is the task that TLV, the Dental and Drug Benefits Agency, has had to map how it is doing with aids in diabetes. The survey shows that there are variations between regions. A majority of them are based on the National Board of Health and Welfare's guidelines when assessing whether it is appropriate for a patient with diabetes to use insulin pump, for example. The hope when doing this type of survey is that it will be a basis for both the discussions in the working group that is under the National Board of Health and Welfare and to continue to make recommendations. Since 2019, TLV has a permanent mission to carry out health economic assessments of medical devices, and the intention is that they will form the basis for both purchasing and procurement and of course for the clinical decisions that the care then makes. Again: There are registers and guidelines, but there are also large resource supplements. I would like to emphasise this and I would like to hear how Johan Hultberg himself views the primary care work. It is very much about having an accessible primary care where those who have diabetes have both a fixed contact and easy access to care so that they can live a long life with a chronic disease as well as diabetes. When it comes to having a coordinator specifically for diabetes, I do not know what reason Johan Hultberg makes sure that diabetes would have this and what would be the advantage compared to other diagnostic diseases. On the other hand, there needs to be interaction between regions but also cooperation within regions. There are differences between regions but also within regions. All knowledge available is important to use when working in healthcare and when controlling Swedish health care.
i-61AWgWi67mvUijxBBgZjTk	Madam President, I would like In order to know how to address the shortcomings that I raised in my interpellation – non-compliance with the national guidelines as well as large and unjustified regional differences – I think it would have been good to do the mapping first. It would have been a good first step if we had been able to agree on this in this House today. Let us commission the National Board of Health and Welfare to carry out the survey as a basis for continued development work. I am not putting any prestige into what steps we then take to deal with the problems we see. I and the Moderates have put forward the proposal for a national coordinator as a proposal precisely because we think that the experience of cancer care is good. The national coordinator has in no way stepped in and overtested or governed the regions in this way, but that person has played an important role in pointing out shortcomings, disseminating knowledge and ensuring that standardised healthcare processes and guidelines are implemented in a decently equivalent way across the country. At the same time, of course, regional and local adjustments need to be made on the basis of the conditions that exist in that particular region or in that health centre or clinic. I could score political points because 90% of patients with type 1 diabetes in moderate controlled Halland use sensor-based continuous glucose measurement while only 65% in S-controlled Västmanland do, but my point is just to address the problems. The Minister is happy to dismiss all my proposals, but I have still not heard a single concrete proposal from the Minister about what one would like to do. As far as primary care is concerned, we agree that it needs to be strengthened. It is important to have permanent medical contacts, but I do not want to lock up patients in the way the government proposes in its primary care reform. I think it is important that if you are dissatisfied with care, you should be able to change care providers and also seek out your own region.
i-FkTpfqJmZT37tJsLAimDqs	Madam President, I would like I'll start where Johan Hultberg left off. According to the bill, patients are allowed to change fixed physicians twice a year, which is not so little. I think that one misses out if one has too much faith in patients to get good care by opting out of the bad and choosing it well and if one believes in that type of system. There is also a great deal of support for the way in which permanent doctors work in the way presented in the bill. I have good hopes that this will not only go through Parliament but also become a reality. It will mean a lot to anyone who needs a resident. Let me say that a mapping exercise is something else and that I do not reject it, but when we start talking about the concrete solutions in a way that is not really taken from either the National Board of Health and Welfare's follow-ups, the Swedish Municipalities and Regions or individual regions, I think it is becoming more difficult. But of course we should constantly increase our knowledge and use both authorities and not least regions to ensure that you get good care. Regional cooperation is not only important but crucial. If each one only looks after his own, it will be very difficult. Johan Hultberg would refrain from doing a party political variant of this, but he could not help but mention the comparison between Halland and Västmanland. Then I cannot help but say that Halland is one of the few regions that do not have a regional coordinator. That could be a good start. The presence of regional coordinators in all regions will facilitate their interaction. A fairly good example is 1177, where citizens feel that everyone is calling the same number and receiving the same support. But it is an interaction between all the regions that is behind it, and it would be excellent if we could think of this in more places. I'd be happy to encourage that.
i-7r3rZuwGdq7qd6quWCCuFZ	Madam President, I would like Ludvig Aspling has asked me whether I intend to take measures to ensure that the sanctions imposed on people who facilitate illegal migration by employing illegal workers are proportionate to the seriousness of the problem. He has also asked me whether I intend to take any further steps to make it more difficult or less profitable to employ illegal workers. The government has taken several measures to prevent the exploitation of workers in Sweden and abuse of systems. A new penal provision on human exploitation has been introduced. To prevent employers from hiring people who are not allowed to work in Sweden, the penalty has doubled. In December, I presented new proposals to tighten up the rules on labour immigration, including the introduction of binding contracts of employment, increased monitoring of the conditions of employment and a dependency requirement for family immigration. The proposal also extends the organisation of trafficking in human beings. During this year, the government will present more proposals for changes to the labour immigration framework, and the government is prepared to take the additional measures that may be necessary.
i-3Rx5f34izV1KuiaEERu5jk	Madam President, I would like When Minister Ygeman was interviewed in the newspaper Expressen regarding the government's work against the so-called shadow society, he was for once honest enough to call it a failure. This is not news, but the government has received a number of alarm reports confirming that picture. I was going to give the Government the chance to explain a little bit how one thinks about this issue. The main reasons for the scale of the problem are ultra-liberal migration legislation, non-existent immigration controls and completely toothless legislation against employers who choose to exploit illegal labour. In a review from the Swedish National Audit Office from 2020 entitled The Swedish Government's action against the exploitation of labour, this is stated in section 3.4:中 Since 2004, two cases have resulted in convictions for the crime of trafficking in human beings due to forced labour. ... Since the new crime human exploitation was introduced in 2018, it has only been one case where an employer was convicted of the crime. ..................................................... The crime of human exploitation is what the Government chooses to highlight as a success in the interpellation response. The Swedish National Audit Office continues:- It is illegal for employers to have employees who do not have a work permit and it can be punished with a fine, special fee or prison. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that there is an almost non-existent risk of being punished for the employer who exploits employees. This may not be very strange given that it happens that ministers themselves choose to hire illegal labor to, for example, clean their luxury villas. The Swedish National Audit continues: One of the most important risk factors for gross labour exploitation to spread in a country is that there is a low risk of being convicted of human trafficking, forced labour or similar crimes. Sweden has been repeatedly criticised for its work in investigating and prosecuting human trafficking. In the 2018 report, the Committee of Experts of the Council of Europe highlights in particular the need for the judiciary to strengthen its capacity to investigate and prosecute cases of human trafficking for labour exploitation. If we look at the actual consequences of hiring illegal workers, we can see that, even if these people were to be exposed, the consequences would not be particularly felt. In 20th chapter. Section 5 of the Aliens Act states: a fine or, where circumstances are aggravating, a prison for a maximum of one year is imposed on a person who intentionally or negligently has a foreigner's employee, on the foreigner 1. I nte has the right to reside in Sweden, –– –. ..................................................... Despite the fact that a couple of hundred people are found working illegally in Sweden every year, it is to date zero employers who have actually been sentenced to a custodial sentence. Moreover, the special levy imposed and referred to by the Government in its interpellation response is so low that, in the vast majority of cases, this is a mere profit affair for employers, especially when you consider that wages are low and you do not have to pay taxes, social security contributions and so on. For example, in a judgment, the court considered that the crime of an employer employing 21 illegal persons on a construction site was still not so serious as to meet the requirement for someone to be sentenced to a custodial sentence. I would therefore like to ask Anders Ygeman the following: does he not think, quite honestly, that if you have 21 illegal employees you should be sentenced to a custodial sentence?
i-KZcAjtvUCNGJWxvBkPXeX1	Madam President, I would like I thank Ludvig Aspling for the questions. I shall begin with the last question and say that the Swedish Constitution is designed so that it is not for the Minister to have views on how independent courts do their work. The Constitutional Committee has pointed this out in several cases, in some cases even where the Swedish Democrats themselves have been the driving force. In some countries where the Swedish Democrats' sister parties rule, this is not the case, where it is highly politicised justice. But I am opposed to the introduction of such a system in Sweden. It is good that Ludvig Asplund – I apologise, Ludvig Aspling it should be; right should be right, as not least Ludvig Aspling himself knows – states that many of the abuses that we are forced to deal with today were introduced by the moderate-led government that Ludvig Aspling himself wants to reintroduce and with which he and his party leaders eat meatballslunches and coffees. Ludvig Aspling seems unable to draw any conclusions from what he himself calls ultra-liberal labour immigration. I think it is a failure that we have as large a shadow society as we have. I think it's because of the immigration of labour. This is because too few people who have received a 'no' on their asylum application have returned or been expelled. That is because we have too lax border control at the EU's external border, where visas are given on too weak grounds and which are then propagated via the Schengen system. What should we do in Sweden? First of all, it should be noted that Sweden is on the upper half of our return work compared to other countries. M steam of them are countries where Ludvig Aspling's party comrades run. We return more people and a larger proportion than our Nordic neighbours do. But we're not happy. This is a failure. We need more controls, we need increased detection risk and we need to get employers who use illegal labour. I note that during this period of government we have doubled the number of border police officers in Sweden and doubled the number of police officers. We have 10 000 more police officers, we spend 12 billion more on the police and we have managed to return people to countries where we have not been able to return people for 10 or 20 years. Since the government took office, I believe we have returned over 90 000 people. Much is being done, but more is to be done. But we are not satisfied until everyone who works in Sweden does so in a legal way and with collective agreement conditions in essence.
i-RWTtetvquB2qGh4ekdKSGP	Madam President, I would like I wanted to start by briefly explaining to Anders Ygeman what it is that the Minister should and should not comment on. I fully agree that the ministers should not comment on individual cases. What I am highlighting in this debate, however, is the practice of sanctions, that is, the penalty that is typically imposed for a particular act. The Government is not prevented from commenting. But I would like to hear what he has to say about this. Another thing that I find a little interesting in this whole soup is how the government views this from a criminal and prevention theoretical point of view. When deciding penalties in Sweden, you often start from what is called proportionality and relative proportionality. A little simplistic means that a punishment should be proportionate to the seriousness of an act and that acts that are about as serious should be punished approximately equally harshly. It can be assumed that the reason why it is illegal to employ illegal labour is that it undermines the labour market – it is thus unfair competition – and that it allows for illegal residence here. It is often a situation of exploitation, and it withholds taxes and social security contributions from society. However, even 21 illegal employees are not, according to today's rules, sufficient to impose a custodial sentence. Instead, consider that an employer had only helped the employee to withhold taxes and had himself withheld social security contributions corresponding to the amount withheld from hiring 21 illegal persons on a construction site. If these 21 construction workers had a relatively low salary, say 20 000 SEK per month, which corresponds to 9 600 SEK in taxes and social security contributions, it means withholding about 2 1⁄2 million SEK in taxes and social security contributions. An ordinary Swedish entrepreneur who withholds SEK 2 1⁄2 million in taxes is convicted of serious tax offences. It's quite obvious. I believe that practice is somewhere around ten base amounts for serious tax offences. A person who does so will undoubtedly shake bars. It's six months to six years in prison for serious tax evasion. On the other hand, if this sum is withheld by employing illegal labour, the penalty is instead fined. This is very strange. Moreover, looking at the severity of crime, one is far more serious than the other. Moreover, a person who employs illegal labour is a person who, as it were, often exploits people in a vulnerable position, facilitates the shadow society and also undermines the functioning of the labour market in a different way. This is therefore a much more serious act. Nevertheless, it is being punished much milder. I think this is actually something mysterious. I have tried to look a little bit in propositions and so on to see if there is an answer to why you look so incredibly mildly at this crime, to hire illegal labor in Sweden. But I haven't found a sensible answer. I suspect that at least the Council of State should have thought about this at some point. So should the penalties for this crime not be tightened up? That would be a very effective way of getting to the people who make it possible for shadow society to be maintained and for it to grow. Then I do not think that the Government should blame the problems that Sweden has on the European Union. We can all agree that the external border should be better controlled. I can certainly agree with that; I do not deviate there. But it's a constant. That's what it is. The question is what the government is doing here and now, that is, what responsibility the government has to use the measures that can be taken here and now.
i-BZPm9mfnAmA99yPQbuYNjM	Madam President, I would like After all, Europe is not a constant at all. If we see that one of three important reasons why the Swedish shadow society is being filled is that the EU's external border is too porous and that visas are being given on wrong grounds, we must make sure to change it in order to plug the hole, in exactly the same way that we shall ensure that more people who are not entitled to stay in Sweden return and in exactly the same way as we shall ensure that those who exploit illegal labour receive tough sanctions. There, Ludvig Aspling and I obviously have different views. Then I note that Ludvig Aspling has his own constitutional committee activities that can interpret what is reasonable or unreasonable. I can only say that the Swedish Democrats were involved in making a remark to the minister who is currently in the speaker's chair because at that time the Government was pleased that a terrorist could be convicted of terrorist offences. I can only note that Ludvig Aspling now has a different view from what the Swedish Democrats had at that time, but I will not comment on a single judgment in a single case – no matter how Ludvig Aspling tries to interpret the practice of his Constitutional Committee. It should be borne in mind that the fine for those who have had an employee for more than three months is almost $100,000. If you have employed 25 people during that time, the penalty fee is therefore quite exactly SEK 2.5 million. What Ludvig Aspling does – it may be difficult to see for those watching this debate – is an illusion trick. He compares the outcome of an individual judgment, in which we do not know what the grounds for punishment were, with an intended legislation. But in the legislation, there is a basis for prison. On the other hand, for reasons unknown to me, the court has chosen not to impose that penalty on this occasion. Since we have an independent judiciary and an independent judiciary, it is not for me to review the court. What I can say, however, is that I think there have been too few convictions in Sweden in relation to this type of crime. I think it has been for toothless controls of this type of activity. In my opinion, employers who have exploited illegal labour have generally managed too cheaply, and I am prepared to make the necessary legislative efforts to change that. It is a fact that it is too low a risk of detection, which I think is the most important thing. It is not perceived as a serious risk of taking advantage of these people, and it is a breeding ground for people who do not have the right to stay in the country anyway. I'm prepared to do what I can to change that.
i-KuZgc1Ki8thLopAQBK8rTB	Madam President, I would like It is a little sad that the Government does not understand the difference between commenting on an individual case on the one hand and sanctioning practices on the other. It's something you should understand if you're working in the Government Office. However, I believe that we must stop hoping that the Social Democrats will wake up and take this seriously, Madam President. I believe that what is needed, for example, is that the construction sector, which was at issue in the case I raised, is acting itself. Many of the civil law rules on construction have been handed over to the industry for a long time, so to speak, through standard agreements, type AB and ABT, the AMA system and so on. I think it is time that the Construction Contract Committee simply started to develop these standard agreements and, when they do, impose tougher sanctions on companies employing illegal workers. In practice today, it is a ground for revocation if, for example, you have a subcontractor who employs illegal labour, but I think what is needed is tougher rules than that – that is, really substantial damages for people who do this. I think, of course, that this should basically be a criminal matter; have no doubt about it. This should be a criminal matter. But when we have a government that sleeps on working hours, other parties have to step in and take responsibility instead. I hope that the Contract Committee on Construction will monitor this so that they see this debate and, at least, take it under report.
i-3PvGFJhToE8mwvuUHfd1A9	Madam President, I would like Ludvig Aspling devotes himself to his illusion trick. Instead of discussing the subject matter, he goes into various legal pirouettes. The issue remains: we need to tighten the penalties and we need to turn every stone around to do what is necessary to ensure that employers who exploit illegal labour can be brought to justice. I don't mind if various construction industry committees do their job, but the foundation must be the justice system. We cannot take for granted, as Ludvig Aspling says, that there will be a new refill in the form of people crossing the EU border on unclear visas. There I obviously have higher ambitions than Ludvig Aspling and the Swedish Democrats. Nor can we turn a blind eye to the labour migration which accounts for a significant part of the increase. I have put forward concrete proposals there, and I will make further concrete proposals. Then we will see what Ludvig Aspling's and the Swedish Democrats' pledges are worth.
i-DpM6yYwQopcQdECPhSj72	Madam President, I would like Maria Stenergard has asked me whether I and the government intend to formulate a concrete and measurable target for returning operations. Maria Stenergard has also asked me what other concrete measures I and the government intend to take to ensure that more people who are not entitled to stay here leave the country. Those who have asylum reasons should be allowed to stay in the country and become part of the community, but those who are refused should return. That is the only way we can maintain a sustainable and legally secure migration policy. The number of asylum seekers to Sweden is the lowest in over 20 years. Since 2014, nearly 9 5 000 former asylum seekers have left Sweden. From 2015, the number of wanted persons has decreased by over 3,000. Sweden's share of return is above the EU average. At the same time, much more needs to be done. The Government has taken a number of decisions to significantly increase the return, with assignments to the Migration Agency and the P Olis Authority. We are introducing new possibilities for the police to use biometric tools such as facial recognition and fingerprints for identification, and since 2016 we have doubled the number of detention centres. We will continue to present proposals and turn every stone around to deal with the problems.
i-Y3V3mLbWDt58e5wGV86Yht	Madam President, I would like For a long time Sweden has had high levels of immigration and low levels of integration. A yes hasn't been a yes. Anyone who has been granted permission to stay should not only be welcomed within our borders but also into Swedish society for real. As soon as possible, you should learn the language and be expected to stand on your own. Unfortunately, that is not the case today. Too many children do not learn Swedish. Too many people get caught up in exclusion with a lack of language skills and dependency on grants. Children inherit their parents'alienation and sense of hopelessness. The so-called oppression of honour, which has nothing to do with honor but only with oppression, restricts and threatens. People do not have the opportunity to grow to their full potential. It is devastating for the individual but also for society. It's a huge failure. Madam President, I would like Just as a yes should be a yes, a no should also be a no. The person who has been refused the asylum application must leave the country. Unfortunately, that is not the case today either. Fewer than half of those leaving the country do so voluntarily. More than half of the cases are handed over to the police to be executed under coercion, and only one in three of those cases ends with the person actually leaving the country. Every year thousands of people go underground and become part of a growing shadow society characterised by crime and exploitation. When the return does not work, it also means that more people choose to go to Sweden because they know that they have a great chance of staying in some way. Statskontoret has recently released a report on the authorities' work on return. It is not a funny reading for a minister of migration, nor for a concerned citizen. Some of the criticisms expressed in the report relate to the government's lack of governance of the authorities involved in and managing the rest of the business. The lack of governance takes the form, inter alia, of the fact that none of the authorities has stated objectives for return activities. Nor is there any concrete return targets in this year's Migration Agency's regulation letter. There are tasks of interaction between different authorities, and they say that the proportion of people who deviate during the return process should be reduced. However, there is still no concrete objective for how many, or for example, how many, should return in the event of a rejection of the asylum application. Our task in this House is to develop the legislation that the authorities need in order to carry out effective work. But at least as important, and it is often forgotten in the debate, is the direction and direction of the authorities. The government is responsible for this management and governance, but it is therefore lacking in terms of return. Therefore, in the interpellation of this debate, I have asked the Minister for Migration whether he intends to formulate a concrete and measurable target for return activities. Twice we heard the same sentence that he wants to turn over every stone. I may have been inattentive, Madam President, but in fact I did not get an answer at all to the question of whether he will formulate a goal.
i-EdC8rbWZowLNfBefHdWLed	Madam President, I would like Let me first say that I think Maria Stenergard is making an excellent speech in this House. It was some figure detail that I might have a different point of view on, a little depending on how you count, and the same with the view on the goal, but otherwise I am prepared to agree with everything that Maria Malmer Stenergard says. I think she describes the problem and the balance in a fine way. Then, as far as Maria Stenergards's specific question is concerned, the answer is: we are setting a target. That's what we do in the regulatory letter. Return will increase. We know exactly what the level of return was last year. I even think it says that it is significantly increased. So it's obvious. Statskontoret's report came quite recently. One thing they point to is political governance. The first thing we did was to give the Migration Agency and the police the same mission to increase the return. When it comes to whether there should then be a numerical target in addition to that, if, for example, there should be a monetary target, targets for different categories, a criminal target and a target for different countries, Statskontoret does not have a firm idea of how it could be done or what is desirable. We are now preparing Statskontoret's report at the Government Office. It is not impossible for us to further define the objectives of the recovery effort, but first we need to review that structure so that we know what goals it is reasonable to set and in what way we set a target that best meets the overall objective, namely the return of more people. I'm definitely not closing the door for that. This is a work going on right now at the Government Office.
i-ULL8tDiwmyCYsahLUW3vHm	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I think it is very positive that we are opening up to actually set a concrete goal. Here, for example, I think a percentage target may be appropriate. Just saying that there should be an increase in return can actually mean that one more case is being carried out, and I do not think that is ambitious enough. In the debate here before spring, the Minister said that Sweden's share of return is above the EU average. The Social Democrats tend to point this out, and they seem to be worryingly satisfied with it. I particularly have three objections to this. Firstly, Sweden has had an incredibly large reception compared to the vast majority of other EU countries. If our return does not work, as is the case now, it also has a huge impact on Sweden. Secondly, recent research shows that comparable countries, such as Norway and the Netherlands, have twice as high a level of return as Sweden. Maybe doubling would be a good goal. Thirdly, that is not enough. Sweden must have higher ambitions than just the EU average. If the government does not succeed, we Moderates are prepared to take over with new energy and full force. Because this is a really important issue. Madam President, I would like Another point made by the Minister in his first speech was that the Social Democrats note that we have the lowest number of asylum seekers in 20 years. They seem pretty happy with that, too. I have three things to say about this too. Firstly, we have been affected over the last two years by a pandemic, with closed borders, when migration has stopped for obvious reasons. But the demand for migration has not slowed down, and the Migration Agency says that as soon as the effects of the pandemic release, migration will also increase. Secondly, over the last few decades, we have enjoyed an enormous welcome, while at the same time we have failed miserably with integration. Over the past ten years, almost half a million people have applied for asylum in Sweden. Every fifth person living here was born in another country. Every other foreign born cannot support himself. Now other countries must step forward and take responsibility. Sweden must reduce immigration and cope with integration. Thirdly, we are still standing out. We have almost five times as many asylum seekers as Finland, more than five times as many asylum seekers as Denmark and almost seven times as many asylum seekers as Norway. This can't go on. Are the Social Democrats really satisfied with those levels? In my world, Madam President, the biggest boulders are actually completely untouched. We Moderates have proposed a series of measures to strengthen return. We have set aside money in this year's budget for more detention places and for the introduction of electronic monitoring. We want to eliminate the secrecy between the authorities and stop subsidies for those who are staying here illegally. Another suggestion I would like to dwell on is to extend the time that has passed before someone who has been rejected can apply for asylum again. Today, it's enough to stay hidden for four years, and then you can have your case tried again. Statskontoret believes that the most common reason why expulsion decisions are not enforced is that matters are time-barred. Extending the limitation period also reduces incentives for people to stay hidden. But the Social Democrats have said no to this, in fact, only last week. Why?
i-Bm3Rd3uN1d3FGugLwvv5Ke	Madam President, I would like I agreed with Maria Stenergards's previous speech and commended her for the fine description, but it will be a little lower this time. Now it's statistical cherry pick-up at a high level. It's picked up wildly. If you want to prove one, you point to Finland, if you want to prove the other, you point to the Netherlands and if you want to prove the third, you point to Norway. Not a word about own responsibility, not a word about the asylum policy agreements that have been decided on by ourselves, not a word about the introduction of the most liberal labour immigration laws in the world and not a word about the introduction of the EBO, which fills our million programme areas with new arrivals. I am quite pleased that when I was in charge of the police and the return, more people returned from Sweden than ever before. I am quite pleased that after eight years of moderate government, we managed to make that cultural change. I am pleased that we are above the EU average on return, especially perhaps in view of the large amount of asylum reception we have had. Nevertheless, being able to reject and expel more than the other countries and get more to return is a bit of an achievement. Yes, I am pleased that we have been more successful than our Nordic neighbours Denmark and Finland. Yes, I am pleased that we have the strictest asylum rules in 40 years and the lowest reception of asylum in 20 years. However, that is not enough. I want more. As I expressed in the interpellation debate before this, we must make sure that labour immigration is redeployed so that we do not plug in any more problems. We have this parliamentary term doubled the number of detention places. We need to have considerably more detention places in place. There are a number of measures that I am prepared to take and which I am happy to discuss with Maria Stenergard and the Moderates. I believe that we will come to the same conclusions in many respects. Let's discuss the limitation period. We have once doubled the limitation period. This did not lead to a major change. Now the Moderates want to double it one more time. Let's discuss whether this is the right action to take. I think it is perhaps more important to discuss what happens after the limitation period, when the re-examination takes place, than exactly how long the limitation period should be. Two years is quite a long time; four years is also quite a long time. But I am not closing any doors when it comes to discussing that issue. I'm prepared to turn over every stone to do what it takes-- I said it again! I am prepared to take the necessary measures to ensure that we have a significantly larger return and that a yes is a yes and a no is a no.
i-9vnHye1NDEtgZfBJN2XZHs	Madam President, I would like The minister said statistical cherry pick-up. Through yourself you know others, I say. The Minister claims to be satisfied because more were allowed to return during his time as a minister. It would be very strange otherwise. During that time, for just one year, for example, we have had 163 000 asylum seekers. It says very little about the percentage that returns. The truth is that the Social Democrats have had almost eight years to increase the number of expulsions. Just before Christmas they suddenly said they wanted to take so-called force. There were many of us who rejoiced, but the joy waned quickly. In practice, it was about such vague things that the Migration Agency and the police should be tasked with intensifying their work. They don't even have the resources to do that, according to them. Statskontoret has also been tasked with analysing the work of the authorities. And the government has commissioned Sida to map Sweden's work on return. In Sweden, a no should be a no. Yet fewer than half of those who have received a 'no' leave voluntarily. We have come a long way beyond the point where analyses and surveys are sufficient. Strong action is now needed. We Moderates have put forward a series of proposals for these. But the Social Democrats have said no to everyone. If, as the Minister says, we are prepared to discuss the length of the limitation period and other measures to make the return work, my door is wide open. We must take a firm stance to really reverse developments and get Sweden in order.
i-Q8etHhq9i2Ax2tVm9RCaLM	Madam President, I would like I will refrain from reviewing the last post. But I can say so much that I look forward to continuing to discuss the issues with Maria Malmer Stenergard and the Moderates. I believe and hope that we have the same basic idea, that a yes should be a yes and a no should be a no and that it is possible to do much more to ensure that those who receive a no also return and that those who receive a yes learn the Swedish language, get a job, get into Swedish society and get to contribute to the Swedish household. There I think it is possible to find many points of contact. Maria Malmer Stenergard is a bit shrewd when it comes to the fact that we have given the Migration Agency and the police assignments and that there would be a lack of resources. It may need to be diverted to additional resources. But remember that the police have 12 billion in higher funds than when the moderate-led government checked out of Rosenbad. We have doubled the number of border police and border police operations since the moderate-led government checked out of Rosenbad. We have also doubled the number of detention places since the moderate-led government checked out of Rosenbad. So, although there is more to do, a great deal has been done. We're not having a statistical seminar. But I think it would be good if we compared ourselves to other countries in general and tried to think about what measures the countries that are better than us, which are still above us in the statistics, have taken and which have had an effect in reality. In this way, with an open approach, I think we can improve Sweden's position, even if we are already above the average.
i-RvT5VqC8sptzDouwU67Rz2	Madam President, I would like Maria Stenergard has asked me whether I intend to take any steps to identify how many people are staying in Sweden without a permit. A fundamental prerequisite for a long-term sustainable migration policy that counteracts the emergence of a shadow society is that those who have been refused their asylum application or for other reasons may not stay in Sweden return to their home country. Return issues are high government priorities, and a number of measures have been taken. The Finnish Immigration Service and the Police Authority have been tasked with intensifying their work in order to significantly increase return. We are introducing new possibilities for the police to use biometric tools, such as facial recognition and fingerprints, for identification. And since 2016 we have doubled the number of detention sites. We have maintained a high rate of return. Since 2014, more than 94,000 former asylum seekers have left Sweden. From 2015, the number of wanted persons has also decreased by over 3,000. In addition, the number of asylum seekers is the lowest in over 20 years. Sweden's share of return is above the EU average. Finally, as far as population records are concerned, there is a fundamental requirement that a foreigner must have a right of residence or a residence permit in order to reside in Sweden, and he may, as a general rule, only be registered if this condition is met. The government has taken steps with regard to population records. The Swedish Tax Agency has received increased funding and more tools to detect, investigate and correct errors. For example, the authority has been given the opportunity to de-register false identities from the population register. Furthermore, the civil record crime has been reintroduced. We will continue to present proposals and turn every stone around to deal with the problems.
i-VY3ki9wkWWrNJYm4L1mEdY	Madam President, I would like Shadow society is growing and spreading. It is about people who reside illegally in Sweden and who in many cases are exploited by unscrupulous employers. The distribution is perhaps best symbolized by the wanted woman who was on the Prime Minister's private property to clean up and who had been commissioned by a company whose CEO was convicted of a scheme with fake invoices. Problematics, and symbolism, can hardly be made clearer. Shadow society is widespread. It is difficult to say exactly how many people are staying illegally in Sweden. But in order to see the need for strong action, one must also dare to see the scale of the problems. I'm afraid the Social Democrats won't. Recently, in an interview with Swedish Radio, the Minister for Migration answered the question how big the shadow society is that 10 000 is a figure that can be used. It's directly misleading. I don't know anyone else who uses such a low number. 50 000 is a figure that sometimes occurs in the debate. But it is old, and Sweden has since it was first presented had a very large number of asylum seekers. There are police officers who claim that this is more like double. Journalist Elinor Torp estimates the number of people who work in the shadow society to a few hundred thousand. Even the government doesn't seem to believe in as low a figure as 10,000. A bill submitted to Parliament last year referred to 50 000 people staying in Sweden without permission. However, the bill also states that the number is likely to have increased significantly. Uncertainty about how many people are staying in Sweden without a permit is great. However, quite apart from this, it is clearly far more than the 10 000 that the Minister has claimed. In my interpellation, I have therefore asked the Government whether he intends to map how many people are staying in Sweden without a permit. The President just heard the Government's answer to my question - or rather that the Government did not answer it. It was not said that words about whether he intends to make new calculations of the scope of shadow society. At best, perhaps the answer can be interpreted as saying that the Social Democrats are satisfied with the system of things, that they think that enough people are leaving the country and that the scope of shadow society is not a problem. I'm surprised. Shadow society is growing and has literally plunged into the Prime Minister's Farstu and knocked on the door. I give the Minister another chance: does he intend to take the initiative to map the scope of shadow society? If the answer is no, how can the government set aside the resources and take the decisive steps needed to eradicate the shadow society? And misunderstand me correctly; I understand that it is difficult to indicate an exact number. Nevertheless, I think that the ambition must be to try to gain knowledge of the extent of shadow society.
i-susjJmvwQMjEnaLiymjHb	Madam President, I would like The only thing that is directly misleading is Maria Malmer Stenergards's quotation technique. She refers to a quote from the radio, in which I rightly mention that there are 10 000 people who are wanted. But in the preamble to the sentence, I also say that there are many other estimates. Maria Malmer Stenergard expresses some of them. Maybe she should listen to the radio interview one more time. We have taken a number of measures against shadow society. In my interpellation response, I expressed some of those who have also produced results. The Swedish Tax Agency has initiated cooperation with other authorities and with a number of affected municipalities. What has been the result of this work? This has led to a 250 per cent increase in the number of charges for civil record offences in the past year. My humility forbids me to ask Maria Malmer Stenergard how many people were charged with civil record crimes under the moderate-led government, but she may still be able to inform me of that. Unfortunately, anyone who is hiding is doing so for a purpose and is therefore not included in a census. There are two traditional methods of censusing in Sweden. The first is register-based census. Then you won't find a hidden individual. The second method that we have traditionally used is the sending of surveys. It may help you to find some individuals who do not have the right to reside in the country, but they are likely to refrain from responding to the Swedish Tax Agency's questionnaires. Other ways are therefore needed to get to grips with this. A much better recipe for success is the work that the Swedish Tax Agency and several authorities have done together with the most vulnerable municipalities. I think some of them are moderate-led. As I said, this has increased the number of prosecutions by over 250 %. I am not closing the door to any method of appreciating the size of shadow society. It can be research-based, census-based, police-based or intelligence-based. However, regardless of the method used, it must be borne in mind that it will give figures with high uncertainty rates. Although I am prepared to discuss and initiate all these forms of action, I believe that the most effective way of doing this is through concrete and operational cooperation between the authorities, municipalities and housing companies concerned to intervene against those who are registered at the wrong address or have no right to live at the address at which they are staying.
i-9fDCbfxutgeEbR2Sq4MfBx	Madam President, I would like Every year thousands of people deviate and become part of a growing shadow society. The Social Democrats have lost control regardless of the numbers they are ballsing with. Nevertheless, I think the Minister seems surprisingly satisfied. In his first speech to the debate, he said that since 2014, more than 94 000 former asylum seekers have left Sweden. From 2015 to 2021, it covers at least seven years. Of course, 94 000 may sound a lot, but we need to know how many should have left the country in the same period of time. I don't know exactly how many, but I've looked closer at three years: 2018, 2019 and 2020. During that period alone, 93 000 rejection decisions were taken. It almost exactly corresponds to those who left the country for seven years. But what about all the other years? Then a number of people should have left the country. What happened to them? Today, the Migration Agency and the police have 50,000 open cases. By December, more than half of the people in police cases had deviated. Only half of those leaving the country return voluntarily. There is therefore no reason to be satisfied, but a series of strong measures are needed. We will turn every stone around to deal with the problems," says the Minister in his response to me. That's good, if that's true. Let me therefore, Madam President, point out ten stones just waiting to be turned: These are ten stones and ten powerful proposals to combat shadow society. These are ten moderate proposals to which the Social Democrats have voted against. Nine of the proposals were rejected by the Social Democrats as late as last week. There's something else that I'm not supposed to go together either. When it became clear that we had a majority behind many of the proposals that we had tabled, the Minister went out to the media and said that the government was in favour of several of the proposals that had been put forward. Why, then, did the Social Democrats not vote in favour? Let me take a clear example, which also shows that the extent of the problems is not seen. The Minister noted that the Swedish Tax Agency has received increased funding and more tools to detect, investigate and correct errors. But in an interview in DN today, the Director-General of the Swedish Tax Agency says something quite different: are Swedish authorities sitting on a gold mine, but we can only drill in it with plastic pipes. She also believes that Sweden's lack of control of identity and extensive confidentiality hinders the exchange of information between authorities and is the source of serious crime, labour crime and benefit fraud that can last year after year. It is so bad that if the IRS had discovered the woman who was found illegally near the Prime Minister's residence, they would not even have been able to inform the police. Madam President, I would like It's heavy rocks that's still there. Who are the Social Democrats going to turn around?
i-M1buqMZvZQ61Q4YG1PwWhk	Madam President, I would like The last question is the easiest to answer: Of course all stones. We're going to turn over every stone to break the segregation. I listened very carefully when Maria Stenergard spoke. In her first speech, she asked me many questions. I think I was able to answer every single one of them. I myself asked Maria Malmer Stenergard one small question. It was about how many people were prosecuted and convicted for civil record crimes when we had a moderate government in Sweden. We have initiated a collaboration between the Swedish Tax Agency, other relevant authorities and municipalities. Together with the police, 500 strategic addresses have been identified. There have been 1 300 civil record offences reported, and the number of prosecutions has increased by 250 percent. Because Maria Malmer Stenergard takes up the heaviest artillery she has and claims that the Social Democrats and the government have lost control, one humbly wonders: What was the situation with the control of civil records offences during the moderate-led government? How much have we lost? This is the basic and central thing to find out how many people live in the country, make sure that people don't live in the wrong place and if people don't live where they are. There is a 250 percent increase in the number of charges, Maria Malmer Stenergard. That's 1 300 registered crimes. That's 500 strategic addresses. If it is to lose control, describe to me what it looked like about the crimes of civil records during the bourgeois moderate-led government. Then Maria Malmer Stenergard takes a rather beautiful rhetorical grip. She claims that the Social Democrats have voted against some moderate proposals. It would have been nice if she had described the process in somewhat more accurate terms. It is true that we have opposed things that the Moderates have put forward in a parliamentary committee. But the motive is that these are things that we are already working with and driving. Take the eighth stone, referred to by Maria Stenergard: that we should put pressure on countries to receive their own citizens, to open up to the use of aid and to use visas. There were things that I and the Home Secretary presented last year. Now the Moderates want the Riksdag to tell the government that it should do what the government did last year. It is not harmful in itself. We can certainly find a text in which we can agree on it in committee. But it is completely meaningless. The same applies to several other of the moderate points. These are things where the government set up an investigation a year or two ago. These are suggestions for referrals. I am absolutely convinced that we can find a consensus on this. But it is political theatre to demand something that the government has had a press conference about, made proposals about or where investigations are on the table. It's good that we can get along. It is good that you are joining the government's policy. But it's not much more than that. I read what the Director General of the Swedish Tax Agency said in Stenergard Nyheter this morning. I would like to say that I agree with most of what she says. Most of the measures she expresses in the article are also those that the Swedish Tax Agency has already been commissioned by the Government or where investigation is underway. If there are further grounds, I am prepared to make the changes needed to reverse each stone in order to break the segregation and break the gangs.
i-QGMwv2LhnQCSNBsrADA2Cs	Madam President, I would like The minister is into something that touches an interesting truth here. It is that in many cases the government has presented proposals. Then the Minister feels it is unnecessary for us to go forward with the same concrete proposals in Parliament. That is something that the government has put in a system. First, there is a press conference with pomp and boast that it intends to decide, if necessary, on a supplementary directive for an investigation that already exists. Then there is a press conference when the situation is getting real sharp to present the supplementary directive. Then there is a press conference when you submit to the Eggs Directive, and then there is a press conference when the investigation comes. But then it becomes completely quiet. There is no press conference when the proposals are never put forward. That's what we're tired of. We must implement proposals and not just talk about them in order to eradicate shadow society. Every year thousands go underground. It has gone so far that the shadow society is literally in the Prime Minister's Farstu. Assessors say it's about at least 100,000 people staying here illegally. However, when the Minister for Migration is asked about the scope of the shadow society of Swedish Radio, he literally says that 10 000 is a figure that can be used. When I ask him whether he intends to map out how many are actually involved, I do not get any answers. Instead, the Minister suggests that he is quite satisfied and points his finger at the government that ruled almost eight years ago. I don't think that's good enough. Yet the Social Democrats say they want to turn every stone around to deal with the problems, of which we do not want to know the extent. I think you've heard that now. But when the Moderates point to ten fairly large stones that should be turned around and present ten concrete proposals on the Riksdag table, the Social Democrats vote against. I cannot conclude otherwise, Madam President, than that the Social Democrats are turning a blind eye to the problems. We need a new government that dares to see and dare to deal with the problems and that can get Sweden back on track.
i-W3T6UxymVsPoN1pwkUHbTk	Madam President, I would like It's getting worse. It goes from gravely misleading to lying. I didn't say that on the radio. Not even the sentence, but the clause is now included in Maria Malmer Stenergards. I said 10,000 people are wanted by the police. That's what I said. It's part of the shadow community. Then I go on to say that there are other estimates and other groups. Maria Malmer Stenergards's description of what I said is wrong. If you read Maria Malmer Stenergards Twitter, you can see that even Svenska Dagbladet's editorial page has corrected Maria Malmer Stenergards's misleading quotation technique. I think we should stay too good to pretend you've said something you haven't said. It does not benefit the debate, and it does not benefit politics. Madam President, I would like I didn't really understand Maria Malmer Stenergards's report from her own press conference. If I understood correctly, she meant that the government had a press conference about saying something, then had a press meeting about doing something, and then had a press meeting again. Madam President, I would like So the Moderates' action to remedy these press meetings was to have their own press conference on something that the Social Democrats presented at their press conference last year. I can assure Maria Stenergard that we will already use every aspect of Swedish foreign policy to increase return. It concerns trade, visas, aid and diplomatic pressure. There's no need for any more moderate press hits or announcements. This is already Sweden's policy.
i-FAQGECGicSYsDGjShXmUMB	Madam President, I would like John Widegren has asked the Minister for Rural Affairs if the Government agrees with the goal of a wolf tribe of 170 – 270 individuals and what the Government will do to implement the decisions taken on the basis of the Government's bill 2012/ 13:191 A sustainable predator policy. The interpellation has been handed over to me. The overall and long-term goal of Sweden's predatory policy is that wolves, bears, wolverines, lynx and kungsörn should achieve and maintain favourable conservation status under the EU Species and Habitats Directive, while not significantly hindering domestic animal husbandry and taking socio-economic considerations into account. Livestock management should be consistent with our EU legal obligations and other national targets. Parliament's approval of the predator bill (prop. 2012/ 13:191) meant that the Riksdag decided on several targets for the wolf tribe in Sweden. One of the targets refers to the reference value for favourable conservation status of the Swedish wolf population, i.e. the number of wolves that can be considered sufficient for the Swedish wolf population to be considered as having a favourable conservation status. The Parliament decided that the reference value would be somewhere between 170 and 270 individuals. According to the bill, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency (the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency) was to assess the exact reference value for wolf within the proposed range approved by the Swedish Parliament and report the value to the European Commission in accordance with the Species and Habitats Directive. The parliamentary decision was about the reporting of predators that Sweden did in 2013. According to the European Commission's guidelines, the reported reference value cannot be an interval but must be an exact value. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency reported in 2013 that the reference value for the wolf population in Sweden would be 270. The reference value for favourable conservation status is a value that must not be underestimated, i.e. simply a floor for the wolf strain. According to the European Commission's guidelines, a favourable conservation status benchmark should be developed from a vulnerability analysis. It is about finding a level of the tribe where it is not at risk of extinction. The vulnerability analysis underlying the 2013 reference value was criticised for not taking into account genetic aspects, which is a requirement of the European Commission's guidelines. The Government therefore commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency in 2015 to update the analysis on the basis of a broad scientific basis and on the basis of the new analysis to investigate what is required for the population to be considered as having favourable conservation status. The analysis showed that in view of the population's inbreeding rate, at least 300 wolves are needed in Sweden and that at least one immigrant wolf from Finland or Russia needs to reproduce with a Scandinavian wolf every five years in order for the population to have favourable conservation status. Member States report the conservation status situation to the European Commission every six years. Between the reports, countries need to update developments. Last reported by Sweden, in 2019 it was stated that the reference value for favourable conservation status for wolf was deemed to be 300 wolves. I understand that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's assessment of the reference value for favourable conservation status for the wolf in Sweden now rests on the scientific basis that the European Commission's guidelines require of the Member States.
i-D4byeZ2K2p6N3nnpmPjzjU	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer to the interpellation. It is still a little surprising, I think, that it is not the Minister for Rural Affairs who answers. The wolf issue is becoming the largest city-to-country issue that we now have to deal with in the Swedish parliament, perhaps apart from the price of fuel. So the wolf issue is definitely an important city-to-country issue. I recognise the answer, Madam President. We've got it a few times now. Never before has it been right, and it's not right this time either. I believe that the size of the wolf population that we have in Sweden today is politically determined. Otherwise, we would have a smaller population, just as was said in the parliamentary decision we took on 170 – 270 wolves. It is a parliamentary decision based on the smallest viable tribe, which was counted up to the bill of the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences and the Skandulv project. They said 100 wolves on the Scandinavian Peninsula would be enough for the smallest viable tribe. In addition, a decision should then be taken on what is favourable conservation status, and that number should preferably be above the number for the minimum viable strain. That's why the Parliament said 170 – 270 wolves. Then it's 300, and the last time we reported it was 400. And all this has taken place under Social Democraticly led governments since 2014. So how many wolves do we have in Sweden today? Last spring we were able to DNA-proof just under 400 wolves, 395 wolves, in Sweden. The most likely thing is that we are missing a number of wolves, because it is not possible to pinpoint everyone when doing this survey every year. The wolf tribe has also been rejuvenated since counting, during spring and summer 2021. So when we entered the license hunt, which is almost finished this year, we probably started with a wolf tribe of up to 500 individuals. And we got a license allocation of 33 wolves in Sweden, so we are far from the figures that we have actually decided on in this House. That is why I think it is a political level that we have as many wolves as we have today. And it is not the political majority in this House that advocates that level, but it is the political part that governs the country in a minority: the Social Democratic Government. Madam President, I would like I believe that the Social Democrats are largely suffering because of the Green Party, which is a bit of a hostage on the wolf issue. Now the Social Democrats have the opportunity to break free from this. You rule yourself! Perhaps you should put your foot down and live up to the predator bill that we decided in this House eight nine years ago. In the bill, Madam President, we decided on favourable conservation status. But we also decided that the wolf should not significantly interfere with domestic animal husbandry and that it should not have negative socio-economic aspects. Therefore, I think it would be appropriate for the Minister now to prefer if we have actually lived up to the objectives of the predator bill. Or are we still blind to the favourable conservation status that we have achieved by far? What about domestic animal husbandry and the socio-economic aspects?
i-PY35miWdhgnTi6y1oLWenT	Madam President, I would like Thank you, John Widegren, for the post! As John Widegren himself correctly says, several members, especially from the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats, since the parliament adopted the predatory bill in 2013, have asked a number of parliamentary questions and interpellations about how many wolves there should be on the basis of this parliamentary decision. It therefore surprises me a little that John Widegren does not seem to understand what the moderate-led alliance government proposed to Parliament in its predator bill in 2013: that a reference value for minimum number of wolves should be determined within the range, and not that the number of wolves should be within the range. The reply to this claim has been submitted time and again. For example, I would like to take this opportunity to remind John Widegren that the moderate-led alliance government decided on a ceiling for the wolf population of 210 wolves, which was also approved by the Riksdag. It forced the EU Commission's alliance government to remove. We cannot have a definite ceiling for the wolf population in Sweden, but we must comply with our European legal obligations, which is exactly what we are doing. The wolf is strictly protected under the Species and Habitats Directive, which means that it must not be deliberately killed or caught. It can only be hunted if there is no other appropriate solution and the conservation status must not deteriorate. That is why the question of conservation status becomes so extremely important in this case. I think, and the government thinks, that what we must naturally lean on is a scientific basis in order to ensure that we can maintain this conservation status of the wolf tribe in Sweden. That is precisely why the Government commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency in 2015 to update the analysis and to base the new analysis on what is required for the population to have favourable conservation status. Just as I explained in my answer, John Widegren, the assessment is that we need a wolf tribe of at least 300 individuals to do this. Sometimes when we are debating this issue, it feels like we are in some way arguing about the pope's beard. We must be able to debate this seriously in Parliament. There is no doubt about what the predator bill from 2013 was aimed at and that it is a floor that was decided that the range would reflect. There we then received a proposal for 270 wolves, which the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency produced. I look forward to the next speech.
i-Hj5sKLZT9tKh946kyXYffj	Madam President, I would like Nothing about how it affects domestic animal husbandry or the socio-economic aspects. Those parts of the bill were not so important to the government, simply. Scientific evidence is mentioned in the debate. But what scientific basis? The research to which I refer, from Skandulv and SLU, says something completely different. IUCN, the world's largest environmental protection organisation, has reported that the wolf should no longer be considered threatened. It's administrative. However, the EU clings to 30-year-old figures and says that it is not possible to move the wolf in the annexes to the Species and Habitats Directive at all. Will the government take the initiative and work to move the wolf into the annexes to the Species and Habitats Directive from threatened to administrative? In fact, that is what the world's largest environmental protection organisation says it is. The Swedish wolf tribe, which since the 80s has grown from 3 individuals to today's somewhere between 400 and 500, does not seem to suffer from any major inbreeding depression or have difficulty adapting. So the wolf tribe is very good. That argument therefore also falls away. Then we return to the fact that this is actually politically based. It is the government that wants us to have this many wolves in Sweden. It does not matter that it makes domestic animal husbandry difficult and has negative socio-economic aspects, because we choose for ourselves. Which is the scientific basis that says that we will have between 400 and 500 wolves in Sweden today. And why do we want so many wolves? There is a majority in this Parliament to greatly reduce the wolf population. Then I think it would be appropriate for the government to justify why we should have so much more wolf than the majority in the Swedish parliament thinks. It was mentioned that the Alliance government had proposed 210 wolves as a roof. I believe that, Madam President, it was based on the lower target of 170 and then 40 wolves in Norway for the number of wolves on the Scandinavian Peninsula. That may well be the way you thought at that point. I think that's reasonable. The Moderates can still do that on every day of the week. 210 wolves on the Scandinavian Peninsula are 110 wolves more than is required for the smallest viable tribe, twice as much. We can do that because we see that there are such incredibly big problems that the wolf is actually causing today. Time and again we read that wolf hunting and hunting on wolf are being tried in courts. There is no legal certainty for the people who will live with the wolf close to their activities or close where they will hunt and pursue their leisure activities. All the time, there's an appeal. There'll be inhibition and a ride to the future. There is no legal certainty. Then I think it is appropriate, Madam President, for politics, the Swedish Parliament, to go in and mark strongly and start making political decisions as to where we are going. It deserves these people, those who are going to farm animals and those who are going to hunt and handle and manage our other game tribes in Sweden.
i-2h1teXMR2HGuHw3Ymjx2aD	Madam President, I would like It is precisely what we are hearing in this debate that is the problem, namely that John Widegren can feel in his stomach that it would probably be reasonable to have a ceiling of 210 wolves. That is not how we politicians should deal with this issue in a serious way. The overall and long-term goal of Swedish predatory policy is for wolves, bears, wolverines, lynx and royal eagles to achieve and maintain a favourable conservation status according to the EU's Species and Habitats Directive, while – as John Widegren says – domestic animal husbandry should not be significantly impeded and socio-economic considerations should be taken into account. The vulnerability analysis underlying the reference value of at least 270 wolves was criticised precisely because it did not take into account genetic aspects, which is a requirement of the European Commission's guidelines. This was why we had to commission the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to update the analysis of what is needed to maintain a favourable conservation status for the wolf on the basis of a broad scientific basis – not on the basis of what someone feels in the Chamber of the Swedish Parliament. It is not a taste, but a broad, scientific analysis that is at the heart of this. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, which is our expert authority, could then show that, given the level of inbreeding that the population showed, at least 300 wolves are needed in Sweden. Where John Widegren now gets 400 – 500 wolves from, I don't know, because he himself referred to the 395 of whom it became the order to shoot off 33. Of these, 26 were shot, I think, in the last updated analysis until January 26 or something similar. In order to mitigate the effects of carnivores, the government has also implemented changes to the wildlife damage regulation. It should be possible for people to live, live and work in their green industries in the countryside. They are needed not least for sustainable development and growth throughout the country. The state is contributing to prevention – John Widegren knows this – as predator-repellent fences and compensation for damage caused by predators. The government has also removed the previous maximum limit of 80 per cent so that you now get 100 per cent of the costs covered. Compensation may also be provided for the maintenance of predator-repellent fences, the relocation of grazing animals and the care of injured animals, as I mentioned earlier. Yes, we take this issue very seriously. It will be possible to live and live in the whole country. But we're also going to listen to science. This is the basis for the analysis that has led to the fact that we now have 300 wolves as our reference value.
i-FH5RdVyyujEZ1tvtGYr4VA	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for the answers. There were 395 wolves we secured last spring. Then I assume that there were also some wolves born last year in Sweden. Otherwise, it would be a very big disaster. Then I think – I don't have any figures because we haven't taken stock of last year's inventory – that we were well over 400 wolves ahead of this year's license hunt. It's not incredible that it was approaching 500 individuals when we started this year's license hunt. I do not know what John Widegren feels in the stomach of the Chamber, but I felt that this was something that the Moderates could sign. I do not feel in my stomach what is scientifically based and not, Madam President. I base my scientific statements on what Skandulv, Viltskadecenter and the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences produced: 100 wolves are the smallest viable strain, MVP. And apparently it was based on the genetic assessments, so that argument doesn't hold up. These assessments were included in the calculation of that figure. As far as the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and wolf management are concerned, Madam President, I can say with quite great certainty that the confidence of the hunting and Swedish farmers in that authority when it comes to wolf management is very little. As regards the measures that can be taken, such as predator-repellent fences, we have seen that it is not a very good working tool. It works sometimes, sometimes it doesn't. I extend my hand, Madam President, to the Social Democrats at this point. Let's talk about this. Let's look at what number of wolves Sweden should actually have. The majority of this House wants something other than what the government is saying today is Sweden's policy.
i-YBxFCTaVeEGbvsbxabtwjU	Madam President, I would like Thank you, John Widegren, for the post and for the commitment– there is no mistake. There is a deep knowledge of these issues. However, it would be very nice if we could at least agree once and for all on what the predatory bill of 2013 actually said, that is to say that the reference value that would be set was not basically about a range where 270 was a ceiling without what would be set being a specific figure to cope with the conservation status. It will be possible to live and live in the whole country. Decisions on these issues – and the practical predator management in Sweden – should be handled close to those affected and not in some kind of centralised function far from the people affected by predators in their everyday lives. The practical predator management in Sweden is regionalised. This means that it is the county administrative boards that collaborate and make decisions on how many individuals of a particular predator species may be convicted with a decision on license hunting. We want people to have confidence in politics and for all the different interests affected by predators to be heard. For this we need real opportunities for local and regional influence; I think John Widegren agrees with that. There is an opportunity for this to be achieved through the Wildlife Management Delegations of the counties, where those affected by it work together. I believe that the government has made changes, including in the Wildlife Damage Regulation, to make the situation easier for those affected. Thank you for a good debate – we will probably have more!
i-V3wsXpQKXfDba8tcaWbwwp	Madam President, I would like Magnus Jacobsson has asked me several questions about planning transport infrastructure. The government has systematically invested in road maintenance, both in the current infrastructure plan, in the infrastructure bill presented in April and in several budgets, including earmarking money for rural roads. This means that over SEK 15 billion per year is proposed to go to the maintenance of roads in the coming years. I can say that the Swedish Transport Administration has never had so much money for road maintenance before. The transport sector faces major challenges. Greenhouse gas emissions from transport need to be reduced. The Government has worked actively for several years to promote the transfer of transport from road and air to rail and shipping. To name a few examples, the government has introduced the so-called eco-bonus for shipping and environmental compensation for the railways. The government is also working to increase transport efficiency. For example, the government has invested in increasing the load capacity of the road network, and about 3 000 km of the state road network is now open to transport with the highest load class BK4. The Government also works to promote electrification, sustainable renewable fuels and energy efficient vehicles and ships. Climate change must continue at a high pace, both in Sweden and globally. The changeover must take place on the basis of the conditions of the different modes of transport and in such a way that the whole country is given the opportunity to change. Finally, I can note that the Christian Democrats in their motion as a result of the infrastructure bill had SEK 50 billion less for investments in new infrastructure, which hardly improves the conditions for changing the transport system and meeting the climate targets.
i-8rMH3PL74qLGz5KvkrUjUE	Madam President, I would like It is always interesting to listen to Minister Eneroth. All posts are based on the principle that you have now received so much money and that you have never received it before. It's a rhetorically good post in that it's rhetorically good, but that's what it really looks like in every budget– that's like how the economy rolls on. If at some point in the future I and Tomas Eneroth get the privilege of changing places, I will probably also stand and say that there has never been this much money before. Let us leave the rhetoric behind and look at what is actually happening in the traffic system. Hard criticism is being brought forward. Criticism comes from the business community, from regions, from interest groups and from the citizens. Throughout this criticism is that far too little is happening in the road area. In the media, in writing, and in other ways, we receive reports and signals indicating that maintenance is failing so much that some parts of the country are beginning to experience problems with the road body. We also get reactions from those who have individual paths; they feel that the support is far too weak. All over the traffic system – all over the chain on the road side – criticism is being brought forward. Madam President, I would like The Government rightly pointed out that the Christian Democrats are moving money within the given framework – we have the same framework during the planning period, until 2033. That is the case; the Christian Democrats are moving resources. An important reason for this is that 80 - 90 percent of all transport in this country is on the road, while in this plan, with these thoughts and thoughts, about 80 percent of all investments are made by rail. Let me say it again: 80% – 90% of all transport is by road, but 80% of all investment is by rail. At the same time, Trafikverket states that the resources for road will not be enough. The Finnish Transport Agency also notes, which is very interesting, that the transfer with these railway initiatives – which are large; I admit – will be about a quarter percent. This is also on page 19 of the big report. This is a huge problem. The government is devoting considerable resources. Large investments are made in rail. There is a lack of maintenance of the normal road system, where most people are. Yet we do not get the environmental benefits that we want. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats and the Social Democrats agree on the desire to have a better environment, but the measures must be taken in such a way that they also have an effect in reality. I will come back to my question: will the Government come up with new proposals that will allow the roads to get the maintenance they need throughout the chain, from individual road to state road? That is where we see the major problems today.
i-2yMbMKLArRLQGDTiwfj1QD	Madam President, I would like I had to get into this discussion. Roads are something that engages me, and I reacted to the answer that the Government gave to the interpellant. This is because the government has systematically invested in road maintenance, which is a recurring phrase in all these debates. But we can see that the Finnish Transport Administration itself, in the plan that is in place, says that they will not be able to maintain the standard on the roads that prevails today. If we do not increase the appropriations during this period, then the roads will be in worse condition by 2033 than they are today. One has to ask how people can live, work and live throughout the country if the roads do not work. An often recurring argument is that we have to change. Yeah, no one's questioning that. But surely it cannot be that we should put down our road network in faith and hope that we are changing our society? We can amuse ourselves by looking at what it looks like around the country. From Daglösen, which is located in Värmland, up to Mora, there is today no railway. There are tracks, but there are no trains on them. There are also no canals to drive boats on. Then the big question is: How will people who live and work in that area manage if the roads do not work? In that particular area, there is also a large-scale industry linked to the forest. If you are to get something out of the forest, it is necessary that the roads work, so that the transport can go to the sawmills. Whoever goes up the Inland Road sees the flaws in the road body. It cracks along, and it gets worse and worse. It is clear that if this is allowed to continue, the roads will in the end not be navigable. Another way north, in Jämtland, about 60 percent of the road network is gravel roads, and some of the roads are not even possible to operate when there is frosting. It is in these areas that people should live, live and run their businesses. The state is betraying these people. Instead, you pour a lot of money on high-speed trains going south from Stockholm. What about all the people who live in the interior? They have no railway and cannot ship their goods on boats, because that is not possible. How will they survive? How will the industries that lie there manage? It would be good if the Government could indicate a direction, a thought or an idea of how the whole of Sweden can live and work. Looking at the plan now in place, it will be extremely difficult to carry out business activities around the country.
i-XcwonshebouyUZXtTneJGg	Madam President, I would like Thanks to both Magnus Jacobsson and Thomas Morell! In response to the last point, I would like to say that Thomas Morell's description is grossly incorrect. Investments are being made throughout the country. I was also able to present today's initiatives at regional airports in Vilhelmina, Hemavan and Gällivare. The list is long over smaller towns that have now received a substantial addition to maintain an important part of the infrastructure. Nor is it true that rail investments would only take place in southern Sweden. Perhaps that would have been the case if Mr Morell's supporters had been allowed to rule the Moderates. They say stop rail investments in northern Sweden, but we are doing them. It is Norrbotniabanan, Malmbanan, Ådalsbanan and Mittbanan. There are many initiatives we have made to also strengthen the railways in northern Sweden. We are strengthening the railways throughout the country because capacity needs to be developed. It's full. It's not like that on the road network. Possibly this is the case on road 40 between Gothenburg and Borås. It's almost full. Why? Because the railway route that runs between Gothenburg and Borås has poor capacity, and there trains run very slowly. It's the old coast to the coastal track. Of course, it needs to be renovated. This is one of the reasons why we want to invest in a new railway, a new track, among other things between Gothenburg and Borås. Then we'll relieve the road. If we can transfer more goods by rail, we will relieve the pressure on the road network. This is the starting point for also protecting the road network in the future. Magnus Jacobsson points out that the transfer may be limited. It should be remembered that in the calculation that Magnus Jacobsson refers to – it is important – the Swedish Transport Administration excludes instruments. In other words, it is only a theoretical calculation of the importance of infrastructure investments, without taking into account environmental compensation, reduced rail charges or other factors that may affect the behaviour of operators. Even fuel prices are not included in that forecast. I think it is important to realise that we need to strengthen the Swedish rail network as well. And we do so to an extent that we have not experienced before. It is also a question of investing in new ways. Here Magnus Jacobsson is guilty of the answer. I have every respect for the commitment that we are to nurture the road body and provide more resources to our national road system. This is done to an extent that we have never experienced before, but it is also a troubling fact that the cost of road maintenance has increased by 60 – 70%. As Minister for Infrastructure and Small Islanders, I must say that I really want us to see and use resources in the most effective way. The fact that the cost of road maintenance increases by 60 – 70 per cent, as the Swedish National Audit Office also points out, is not acceptable. Sometimes it is not only more money that is needed, but we must also ensure that resources are better spent. It's part of it. The second is that the Christian Democrats still have SEK 50 billion less to invest in new infrastructure. So there will be railway initiatives that will be removed. Magnus Jacobsson now has the opportunity to talk about what is going away, for 50 billion is a lot. It may also be road ventures that should be removed. Cross-connection Södertörn, Ostlänken, Lund– Hässleholm, Göteborg– Borås, Norrbotniabanan– I can't help but ask a counter-question to the Christian Democrats: What is going away? For politics is also the choice. It is about daring to take responsibility and provide resources to maintain the standard in the Swedish rail system and road system and to dare to make the investments that are now needed to enable us to reset and achieve net zero emissions in 2045 with climate-smart transport, not least on rail.
i-9pUyhdN3tRPjPPiYXZoAoW	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Eneroth, for the questions. Let me start with the last one. We have been very clear in our exercise. I would like to say that we have been among the clearest parties in opposition to the fact that we say 'no' to high-speed trains. It also means saying no to the three projects now being put forward. We have also been clear about what we want to do instead. Take my own countryside as an example. There are great advantages to building the Gothenburg – Borås section. We acknowledge that. If you build that route, you should of course connect on the flight. We have no different opinion on that part. But for the time up to 2033 we looked at another stretch. Then we looked at the distance from Alingsås down to the harbour of Gothenburg, the lighthouse track. We pointed this out and said that we would like to make a change there. Why did we just point this out? Yes, it has such great synergies for the whole system. The goods that go from Norrland to the port and what comes from the port and goes north must be penetrated in the narrow waist that the route to Alingsås is. It is also about the entire railway infrastructure that exists in Västra Götaland and about strengthening, improving and shortening travel times on, for example, the Stockholm-Gothenburg section. Our choice to point this out also has to do with the fact that the second proposal does not reach its full conclusion. We should be aware that the proposal that is now on the table until 2030 means that the expansion will stop in Borås. There will be no high-speed track reaching Stockholm, but it will stop. It's a huge investment that doesn't get all the way through. This is the basis for understanding what the Swedish Transport Administration is writing. According to preliminary estimates, rail investments reduce road traffic by a total of a quarter per cent. That's a pretty strong sentence. It is large investments and a total of a quarter of a percent. Madam President, I would like I also share the view of the Government that there are other instruments. But then you have to be clear and go up in this House and say that you think that the fuel price should be 30 - 35 kroner. That is, of course, where we need to go if we want to manage and move transport through financial means. We Christian Democrats have said that we do not believe that this will work. It has too much impact in rural areas. It will affect our agriculture and our haulage companies, which are already exposed to fierce competition from hauliers from abroad. It is therefore quite correct that we have withdrawn some of the rail investments that would have gone to high-speed trains, and we are allocating the funds to other investments. For example, we have pointed out that we need to finish the straw up to Norrland. We cannot have a situation where we first invest, and then there will be a new bottleneck, and it may be 10, 15 or 20 years before you grab that bottleneck. We have even said in that part of our motion that we want to make a freight effort. We want to get a string that will work through Sweden. But it does not remove the fact, Madam President, that what is now being presented will have major negative effects on the road body. We are already seeing how to lower speeds, which makes people harder to cope with their everyday lives. From what I understand, it will also be an even higher price to force this transfer, which, in itself, most people want to happen.
i-WztV1d24256RHjNdVck8RA	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. It is wonderful that you have decided to support airports, but that is not what the issue is about. D one is about the roads and the possibility of living, working and living throughout the country. You can read what the Finnish Transport Administration itself says. It says that the risk of minor disruptions and temporary restrictions will increase on this part of the road network – that is, the fine-meshed road network – and that the Finnish Transport Agency will ensure that the roads will not be so bad that accessibility to light traffic is affected. But what will everyone who lives, works and has agriculture or forestry along these roads do when the milk truck or log car does not arrive? Per Kågeson is a well-known debater on the environmental side – I think the Government can also agree with that. He's written a debate article. Although it is one and a half years old, it is quite interesting. It says: The decision on high-speed lines is based on completely crazy assumptions. It also states: In addition to these completely crazy assumptions, the calculation is based on the belief that high-speed trains will lead to large quantities of goods being moved from trucks to trains running on the old main roads. But this is not backed up by any real analysis. That's how Per Kågeson writes. The idea of high - speed lanes is similar to that of a child standing with a bunch of Märklinsräs in his hand, which it then throws out on a map on the floor. This is about the kind of investment that will look like. There's a lot of money, but there's no use. Instead, that money can be spent on maintaining both existing roads and existing railways, so that we can get our infrastructure system in order at some point. But it seems to be far from the government to think in those paths.
i-8TnfgmUWHt17uynDnyWXgC	Madam President, I would like I must say that Thomas Morell's speech is remarkable in view of all those who have worked with the Ostlink. In Norrköping, Linköping and up to Nyköping they work to finally strengthen the railway. I am thinking of the Kardonbanan and the connection to Norrköping. It reinforces the possibility of regional commuting but also of freight transport. There is a strong turnout throughout the region, wide across all party boundaries. It waves away Thomas Morell and the Swedish Democrats as if it were completely unnecessary. The same is true of the strong Scanian commitment to Lund – Hässleholm. The South Swedish Chamber of Commerce, Sonesson and the entire region are behind the effort to strengthen the rail system. When Fehmarn Belt is built and traffic comes across the Öresund Bridge, there must be capacity to receive it. Then you can't say: No, but we don't want to bet anything. This needs to be done, because it is already full on track. The Finnish Transport Agency has to say no to new operators who want to drive even more by rail. The same is true of Gothenburg – Borås. Here lies Thomas Morell but also Magnus Jacobsson's great concern. Nevertheless, the Christian Democrats dare to clarify themselves – the Swedish Democrats do not – and say that 50 billion less should be spent on new infrastructure. Then it is not enough just to say that you want to remove Gothenburg – Borås. Is that the East Link? Is that the Norrbotnia Line? Is it Lund – Hässleholm? Is that the South East Link? What bets should be removed? What the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats, and indeed the Moderates, say, is: We do not want new investments in infrastructure. I am convinced that this is absolutely necessary. At home in my own part of the country, we are planning, among other things, for the South East Link. It is about building railway from Älmhult via Olofström down to Karlshamn. It will relieve the South Main Line. Today, the goods from Älmhult to Olofström have to go up via Södra Stambanan. Then it must go down to get out to Karlshamn harbour. This is an incredibly important initiative. It doesn't just say me and the government or the residents of the region. Volvo in Olofström says it is important. Ikea says it's important. There are major industrial interests. And we who work with infrastructure understand the point of making such an effort. Is it the one, Magnus Jacobsson and Thomas Morell, that you will delete when you do not want to invest in new infrastructure that allows us to have climate-smart transport, not least in the future, until 2045? I think it is important to dare and be able to take responsibility for issues that are here and now, but also issues that are about long-term investment decisions in order to strengthen capacity. I became Minister of Infrastructure after a time when another government, a bourgeois government, had failed to invest, not least on the Swedish rail system. We had a finance minister, Anders Borg, who made a point of not investing in rail. The effect we know about. There was a change of gear, a signal failure and a train stop in a position where more people wanted to ride trains. More companies wanted to send freight on trains. We actually wanted to change and travel more climate-smart. Since then, we have started a number of very important initiatives and have also invested more on the way. In budgets, we have repeatedly paid extra money to roads in rural areas so as not to end up in the situation that some seem to find very interesting, where you put city against country, where you set road to rail and where you try to point out investments in Gothenburg– Borås or Lund– Hässleholm as something that threatens investments on the road. We both do. We have a framework of nearly 900 billion. We are committed to maintaining what we have but also to ensuring that we can build an infrastructure system that is sustainable in the future, not only for our generation but also for future generations.
i-DR6Esj2wmRdLEh2PBBhqjm	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Eneroth, for your clear questions! I appreciate it. Unfortunately, the clear questions also show that the Government or the Government's employees have not really read our motion. We are clear that it is precisely the high-speed train – and then it is the three routes – that we are taking out. We are clear that this is the part we are lifting out, but we are keeping the frame. We have also said that if you are now going to invest in high-speed trains, you have to find another funding, another way of working, something more similar to how you built the Öresund Bridge or similar. When it comes to the resources that we then release, it is actually the case that in our exercise we allocate more resources to Norrland. I've been talking to some of those who are active up there. They note that the new plan is once again improving, yes, but it is not finished. There'll be delays, and there'll be distances that you shoot at. Madam President, I would like Now it was not my intention that we should have a major railway debate, but it is, as it were, where we bring back the resources that we are moving to, among other things, road. That, in fact, is perhaps the main issue for me. We have, again, a situation in which 80 – 90 percent of all traffic movements, whether we are talking about freight traffic or whether we are talking about passenger traffic, are on the road. But the government spends 80% of all its investments on rail. The Finnish Transport Agency notes that it will be of very little use if you do not take strong measures, such as raising the price of fuel, for example. We want a policy that ensures that the whole of Sweden works. Then the road network must also be given a chance to be upgraded.
i-9SFWwJZRLtrXzJ8KnwvvdL	Madam President, I would like I understand that Magnus Jacobsson and the Christian Democrats want to make this a question of fuel prices when they themselves go forward with draconian reductions in fuel tax of SEK 3 or something like that. When we are in a climate emergency, I do not think it is responsible. We will find ways to compensate so that you do not have costly living costs, but that so clearly not take responsibility for long-term climate issues is a bit serious. But I also think the message is interesting, because what is said now is that the Christian Democrats want to lift the Ostlink – for that you have to do if it is to accommodate SEK 50 billion. It is not only Gothenburg– Borås and Lund– Hässleholm, but it is also Ostlänken. Here's the work going on. And it has been going on for a long time in Norrköping, Linköping and Nyköping. Is the message that all the planning work that is now being done is to be stopped all of a sudden? I am thinking of the entire urban planning work in Norrköping and Linköping and of the residential construction that is planned. Then it is a new message that is extremely serious, not least for those regions but also, of course, for the whole of Sweden, which sees the need for increased capacity in the rail system. We allocate resources, EUR 50 billion more, to new infrastructure, ranging from cross-connection Södertörn, which is a road investment, to Ostlänken and Norrbotniabanan, which are important rail and transport investments to increase capacity from the point of view of freight, but also to strengthen passenger transport. The Christian Democrats choose to say no to new initiatives and instead want to care for what they have. I can respect that, but I would also like to take a fundamental look at the fact that road maintenance costs have increased by 60 to 70%. I want us to get more bang for the money there. Thank you for a good debate!
i-Uo8WzdCwu2kq1UtYS6kmSv	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me what measures the government intends to take to stop the possibility of taking driving licences under false identity. For me, the fight against fraud and fraud is a very priority area. This is why a comprehensive package of measures is being introduced to combat fraud in driving tests and also in black driving schools. Among other things, the government has proposed, in a legislative referral, to increase the penalties for illegal traffic training and introduce an option to shut down those who cheat on tests. It will make it more difficult for black traffic schools and provide authorities with better tools to stop the cheating. Identity fraud must, of course, also be combated. The government's efforts to strengthen the security of identity documents, improve the quality of public records and improve the coordination number system are also of great importance in order to prevent fraud with driving licences. The Swedish Transport Agency continuously evaluates its procedures for establishing the identity of persons and ensuring that false identities are not used. In case of suspicion of a criminal offence in connection with incorrect information, this is reported to the Police Authority. I will, of course, follow this issue in close dialogue with the Authority.
i-FRD1RKtoy9gR4f8ixRaZmw	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. The driving licence is a valuable document and also a proof that I have sufficient knowledge to drive a vehicle on the road. It starts with a moped and ends with heavy transport as a bus and heavy truck with trailer. In order to obtain these privileges, I shall take both a theoretical test and a practical driving test to demonstrate that I possess the knowledge required to drive the vehicle. At Christmastime last year, a taxi operator in Umeå was sentenced to prison after it was discovered that he had seven driving licences with different identities. According to media information, this man has been known by the Swedish Transport Agency since 2015. This individual has thus had at least forty different identities and toured around the different offices of the Finnish Transport Administration for driving and with these different identities did both theoretical and practical tests. You can still say that he has enough knowledge to pass the tests. However, it has not been in his own identity, but he has instead sold the service to someone else who got a driver's license with this individual's photo on it. After a while, you report your driver's license and send in new driver's documents, and then you have a driver's license in your fist with your own photo on it, although you have never ever been close to driving up or getting an education to drive these vehicles. What's scary in this story is that there are drivers who have been given both taxi clearance and bus clearance that way. So you have the right to drive people in professional traffic, but you do not have sufficient knowledge. I don't think anyone in this room would want to ride with a bus driver who doesn't have the training to drive the vehicle you're driving in. It takes a little more to drive a bus than a passenger car. If you have 50 passengers behind your back, you want to know what you are doing, for example how the brakes work in the winter, how to drain water and so on to avoid freezing. If you have not received this training, you can go out on the road with a vehicle that suddenly loses its braking capacity, or all the wheels lock up so that you get off the road. This is what's so scary. I have also read the proposal that has come from the government, and I think it is great. Here we need to pinch properly so that we do not get drivers who do not have the right training. We must also ensure that things are right in the offices where theoretical and practical tests are carried out. I have friends who have been traffic inspectors. They have been threatened when they have failed drivers who have not met the requirements for obtaining a driving licence. It has also been a work environment problem at Trafikverket when people do not accept the decisions. What has not been included in this investigation are those who come there with a false identity, and this is where it falls when the authorities are not in contact with each other and can ensure that the right person is actually in place.
i-JX7xBBXQk57Sz3znDSAhbP	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Morell! I think perhaps this is one of the few issues where Thomas Morell and I probably have the same starting point. Otherwise, we often part very often. I am proud that this government has really taken on all these issues, which were quite untouched before we took office in government. Both the Ministry of Justice, the Minister of Justice and the Ministry of Infrastructure have made a number of efforts to tackle everything from cheating with identity documents and driving licences to action against car keepers and black driving schools. Relatively recently, I was able to tell you about new efforts just in terms of getting at cheating during driving tests or, for that matter, black driving schools, and I am pleased to see now that a number of convictions have also arrived. So slowly but surely years of investigation and regulatory work are starting to have a proper effect. I think that's how we're gonna see it. Former governments have felt that this has been up to the market to deal with, and so the funds for the authorities were slimmed and failed to investigate the risks of misuse of coordination numbers or driving licences. It is now incredibly important that we ensure that we have order in this. In June 2021, a number of rules came into force concerning coordination numbers and identity documents concerning both the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Transport Agency and others. There is also an investigation into the driving licence as an identification document, and it is not unthinkable that we end up in a situation where the driving licence should no longer be an identification document, but just something that proves that you have the right and the opportunity to drive the vehicle. The design of the licence with identity, bioinformation and the like is also internationally regulated. There is ongoing cooperation within the EU and internationally on what requirements we will make on driving licences in the future. I do not think Thomas Morell has any different views, but I think it is important for those following the debate to know that challenge. It is important to ensure identity and make the necessary checks, and we will both train people and staff within our authorities and in other contexts. In addition, we will make sure to do more checks than before. Above all, we shall develop opportunities so that confidentiality rules do not make it difficult for authorities to co-ordinate information. We have also presented and implemented measures in this area relatively recently. I appreciate the commitment, and I am proud that we have now made several efforts to tackle the fraud. More will, I can announce, because we have had a number of investigations for which the findings are still being prepared in the Government Office. It's supposed to be order and order. We should not cheat with driving licences or with driver training. We shouldn't be cheating on how to handle driving education. It should be well-trained drivers who receive a solid education on our roads. This, together with secured vehicles and good infrastructure, also allows us to reduce the number of people killed and injured in traffic. Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to mention that those who order transport and those who own and operate hauliers should of course ensure that there are good timeframes and good opportunities for those who are professional drivers to also carry out their work well. The driver should not be stressed by tight time margins, low wages or anything else. It is incredibly important that we continue to monitor the issue, not least when the mobility package is to be implemented.
i-MjahmY9obwvgDZxSWa1Qf8	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. We do not differ on this issue, but I would like to have a little more pressure so that it is possible to ensure that whoever comes out on the road actually has the training needed to drive the vehicle. It is all the more important to engage in passenger transport. When I get into a bus or taxi as a consumer, I will be sure that the driver in front of the vehicle has the right training and permission to drive. It must not be the Wild West in the activity where people are transported on the roads. The same is true of freight transport. We cannot have 40 - 70 - ton drivers who do not have training, who do not know what they are doing. Everyone realises that if something happens to such a vehicle at 80 kilometres of speed, it wants the person behind the wheel to have sufficient training to cope with that situation. There is much in the history of the enterprising gentleman who has been in Umeå, Uppsala, Jönköping, Eksjö, Södertälje and Skövde. He was diligent in producing driver's license for his friends. One of the major concerns in this is the Privacy Protection Authority. The article states: It is not necessarily the case that a change of law is needed. Another brake pad for persons with multiple identities to be attached with facial recognition is the Privacy Protection Authority. In order for an authority to use facial recognition, the Privacy Protection Authority must first approve the proposed application. Now that there is a market where it is possible to buy a driving licence and there are individuals who tour the country and drive up with someone else's identity, and then replace the license so that it becomes the right photo by losing the license, they have created a business idea. There are those who feed on the business. The fact that it is not possible to stop the business is a little bit to roll out the red carpet for the criminals. It is usually the criminals who are involved in such activities. As I have said so many times before, I talk a lot to my old colleagues in the police, and sometimes I get access to links where you can go in and get a driving license, marriage certificate, death certificates – yes, basically everything you need in life – for a cheap money. It has become an international market to sell false documents. Now it is a bit tricky for a Swede to hold a false Swedish driving licence because the police can do a hit in the registers. But for those who come from outside, it is a gold mode to obtain a driving licence elsewhere that the Swedish police cannot control. My old colleagues say they run into fake driver's license documents often, where they are sure the driver does not have the right authorisation. Then there is a long process before you can lead this in evidence. It's not always working. It is not only in Sweden that stricter rules are needed, but also in the international context that regulations need to be tightened up so that markets are not created for criminals. In the end, this hits the rest of us. It affects road safety. People are at risk of being killed in road accidents because they meet a driver who is not in control of the situation. I am absolutely convinced that the Government has exactly the same ambitions in this respect as I do.
i-7FKTJ2P5SdTf4PwQdsTEXh	Madam President, I would like That's right! There has therefore been intensive work going on on this issue for several years. For our government, this is a priority. I can only regret that previous governments did not place the same emphasis on these issues because they become a breeding ground for crime. In other areas of market transition, such as the free schools or, for that matter, the misuse of some other benefits, companies have been created with a view to obtaining benefits. Economic crime is now in a situation where the ambition has been to create a market with free operators who would provide the services. But you can't be naive. It is important that we be careful where our state resources go. We must give priority to ensuring that the right individual is on the driving licence or identity document. The challenge of false identities has grown, not only in the field of transport. This also applies to doctors, teachers and other occupational groups – and they occur internationally. It is certainly an effect of far-reaching electrification, digitalisation, where the backside is that control systems need to be tightened up and increased in scope. That is precisely why it is important to have a data protection authority. I do not share Thomas Morell's view. There must be someone who, in our eagerness to access, regulate, identify and reveal, has the task of holding up a finger of warning and saying: Wait a minute! What happens in a society where there should be facial recognition software everywhere and where it should be possible to get all the information about all individuals? What happens to personal integrity? The government, members of parliament and decision-makers must constantly ask themselves how data on the individual's different interests are handled. There is everything from GDPR controls to joint international agreements to be considered. It's important. I'm not going to criticise the privacy authority. It is good that they raise a finger of warning and make sure that we in our eagerness to ensure that it is not cheated with identities do nothing that can also get other backsides. I can assure Thomas Morell that this is an area of government priority. We have provided more resources to the responsible authorities, and there is extensive investigation and regulation work going on. Recently, I have reported efforts that we are making against black driving schools and car goalkeepers and, not least, to increase the control of improper use of driving licences.
i-2H7RFZSFWbGMz2av8Z48SF	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. If I'm going to lie down on an operating bed, I'm pretty interested that the guy holding the knife has the right education and isn't sitting with a false act. It's the same if I put myself in a flying machine. Then I'm also interested in the fact that the captain and the mate have correct documents. It is equally important when I am out on the road, that is to say that the person I meet who drives a heavy vehicle has the right authorisation. Otherwise, a complete disaster could end. Each realizes that if a four - passenger passenger car gets in the way of a 40 - 50 - ton truck, it ends in only one way. I also realise that hips as a happy person cannot do a lot of controls on people, but it is necessary to strengthen controls so that it can be ensured that an individual who is going to do a driver's test – or what it might be – is that individual. It is quite clear that there are gaps when a person can tour Sweden with 40 different identities and get a driving license that he later sells to some kind of client. Then the hatch has been wide open and created the possibilities. The government has to close the hatch. The proposal is good, that is to tighten up the controls, that those who enter the Swedish Transport Administration's office do not carry manipulative equipment, earpieces, cameras and so on. One must also know that the person entering the office is the individual he claims to be. Otherwise, it opens up to the kind of business models that we have seen in connection with the person who has been sentenced to prison. I hope that the government will also add that dimension to the work.
i-HAUoYZbBKw71QaabNyos8G	Madam President, I would like As I said, on this issue we do not really have different opinions. I think most people can testify that the government in this context has had a high tempo with many proposals from the Ministry of Justice. We have also done solid legislative and regulatory work to tackle both car goalkeepers and black driving schools. More is coming, I can assure you, because we are still not where we can say we solved the problems. There are constantly new challenges. Crime has the peculiarity of seeking new technologies and new opportunities to earn money or exert power and pressure. Then we must be there and be proactive, so here the government will continue to have a high tempo. There's no doubt about it.
i-JGk9muNaLJC4iHGoCf5K3D	Madam President, I would like Jessika Roswall has asked me questions about the extension of four tracks on the railway between Uppsala and the county border to Stockholm. There are many important and urgent measures in the transport infrastructure to be implemented around the country. Last spring, the government presented an infrastructure bill with the largest financial framework ever for transport infrastructure measures. The Parliament then made decisions in accordance with the Government's proposal. In total, the framework is estimated to amount to SEK 881 billion during the upcoming planning period 2022 – 2033. I can see that the Swedish Transport Administration has never had so much money for the transport infrastructure before. In this context, Jag notes that the Moderates proposed SEK 30 billion less than the government to expand new infrastructure. When the Social Democratically led government took office in 2014, the situation was such that for many years it had been underinvested in Swedish transport infrastructure. In 2018, the Government presented a national plan where resources increased significantly. The expansion of four tracks between Uppsala and the county border to Stockholm came the first time into the national plan in 2018, when the then red-green government established the national plan for the period 2018–2029. We have done this to develop existing infrastructure but also to carry out new investments throughout the country. A well-functioning transport system is an important part of the construction of society. This is how we increase the pace of climate change and ensure that future jobs end up in Sweden. The Government recently received the Swedish Transport Administration's proposal for a national plan for 2022 – 2033. The proposal is now in broad consultation, and I look forward to hearing the views of, for example, industry and civil society, but also municipalities and regions. What the final plan will look like, the government plans to make decisions in the spring of 2022.
i-EFbP8MwiwQSpj6XAdwtgoo	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. Let me first make a brief summary. Prior to the 2014 elections, the Social Democrats promised four tracks between Uppsala and Stockholm. Stefan Löfven promised that the investment and funding would take place in the near future. Then, during the last parliamentary term, the project was included in the national plan, but unfortunately not the entire funding, but only 30%. It was said that the construction start would take place in 2025, which may not be what the Löfven One meant in the near future. That could be the case with the election promises of the Social Democrats. Anyway – m breath period ended, and it was time for a new election movement. Then, indeed, the government held a meeting to Uppsala. Stefan Löfven went to the Uppsala Travel Centre for a press conference and announced – again – that the lighthouse track would indeed happen. On this train, in a double sense, was of course the then Minister of Finance, that is to say the current Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson. The money should then reasonably have been negotiated with Finance, you might think. Since then, Minister Eneroth has talked about this on various occasions. I have heard it myself, among other things at a disting in Uppsala a few years ago where he talked about the construction start and promised information about the lighthouse track. Everyone walked away very hopeful. It was a digital meeting, so went and went, but anyway. In addition, Uppsala Municipality, Knivsta Municipality and Region Uppsala have signed an agreement with the state on residential building where the state promises that the lighthouse track will be completed and be in place in 2034. They've already started their part of the deal. When Trafikverket came up with its proposal for investments in the national plan, many of us were very upset. The proposal is that the start of construction is postponed to 2028, i.e. by no means short-term, and part of the funding is missing. It's not a small part either – it's 82% of the funding that's behind 2033. This is totally unacceptable and would mean that the lighthouse track will not be completed in time. In this interpellation, I have asked several questions to the Government, as its practice is faithful instead of answering the questions that upset the alliance government with claims of past underinvestments. That's not true. There have been many debates in this House. I know that the Government can do better, and I think he should focus instead on his own responsibility. This is about what the Social Democrats have promised. Election promises are now visible, and there are many municipalities that are disappointed. For everyone who listens, I would also like to remind you that the route between Uppsala and Stockholm is not only important for commuters but is a national matter, plus that this is a good investment. It would also be a good investment in the short term, and it is not all the routes that are. In the Uppsala-Stockholm region there are over 2 million inhabitants or just over a quarter of Sweden's population. There are several leading universities and Arlanda, and it is a region that is growing both in terms of population and in terms of economic weight. This region is important for the prosperity of Sweden as a whole. Back to my questions in the interpellation. The first is the breach of contract: will the state keep its part of the agreement, and if so, when? Secondly, funding: Is the Government prepared to re-prioritize so that the lighthouse track can be completed in time?
i-MaMETsao8MF1xHsSCZAQCE	Madam President, I would like I think this is a very important issue that Mrs Roswall raises. Uppsala – Stockholm is one of Sweden's busiest routes. I think there were many of us who were surprised when we received the proposal for a new infrastructure plan from Trafikverket last year and saw that this route was heavily underfunded. Even a fifth of the money needed is not included in the draft infrastructure plan. This is how the Minister for Infrastructure says it is in the hands of the government to establish this plan. I very much hope that the government will make a move based on the infrastructure plan presented by the Finnish Transport Administration, because the Swedish Transport Administration has presented a plan that chooses to prioritise, for example, major motorways. One such motorway is Tvärnändning Södertörn here in Stockholm, which will cost about SEK 14 billion. It is rejected by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency because it conflicts with our climate targets and also drains the infrastructure plan on important resources that could go to the completion of a four track, two more tracks, between Stockholm and Uppsala. There are many other very important railway projects that have been given priority in this plan. The lighthouse track to Uppsala will then be connected to the new Ostkustbanan, i.e. a suggested double track from Gävle up to Härnösand. This path has also received reduced funding in the Swedish Transport Administration's proposal. Even the major investments in infrastructure and rail in northern Sweden do not get enough money in this proposal. As I said, there is an opportunity for the government and the Minister for Infrastructure to change this. After all, it is the government that is to present the final proposal for the infrastructure plan. It's due in June. If the details of such a proposal, the government is usually rather reticent. But I saw a positive statement from the Minister for Infrastructure on the South East Link, the proposed railway of two miles between Älmhult and Olofström. Unfortunately, the Finnish Transport Agency does not prioritise it in its plan proposal and does not spend any money on it. But the Minister for Infrastructure has been very clear in both Swedish Radio and local newspaper Sydöstran and said that the South East Link will be completed within the plan and that the Minister for Infrastructure will take it back into the infrastructure plan. It is good to have clear leadership on such an important railway link. But if the Minister for Infrastructure can be so clear about the South East Link, I wonder why the Minister for Infrastructure cannot be as clear as regards the four track between Uppsala and Stockholm.
i-28GXfFx1rBjPpoZWmoVBvg	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm and Jessika Roswall, for wise views and good posts! The overall characteristic of all posts is that we want more infrastructure. That's the first thing. Everyone sees the benefits and importance of investing in infrastructure. That is why I am pleased that we have more resources than ever, almost 900 billion, to do so. With all due respect, Roswall Jessika's dilemma is that the Moderates propose 30 billion less to just new infrastructure. Then something must be gone. Jens Holm chooses instead to say that we can remove Tvärtändning Södertörn. As far as the debate on infrastructure is concerned, I often note that many people are keen to try to set objects against each other. I realize that the priority work is difficult, but I don't like the development where you try to put all the different objects against each other. The Government's ambition, because we have the largest framework ever, is to be able to complete what we started back in 2018. Not least, the initiative on four track Stockholm – Uppsala is important. I have been equally clear, whether it's about Sydostlinken, four track Stockholm– Uppsala or other important initiatives, with the Government's ambition to be able to complete important initiatives. Trafikverket's proposal is for a referral. Many, of course, have views on the proposal. I myself chose to call a special press meeting where I said clearly that there will be differences between what the Swedish Transport Administration has highlighted and what the government will finally present. That is why, among other things, we have the consultation procedure t. I look forward to hearing what delegations have to say, whether they are from the Uppsala region or from southern Sweden. Above all, I hope that both Members here, just as I am putting on national glasses and trying to see what is important throughout Sweden in the future. Some things are clear, and the government has made that clear. Firstly, we need to increase investment in the rail system in order to increase capacity; it is full on track. Secondly, we must increase the conditions for regional commuting, that is to say, ensure that labour market regions are enlarged. Fyrspår Stockholm – Uppsala is a good example of this. Here the municipality and the region also make commitments to follow up with their own ambitions when it comes to housing construction. In the same way it is with the main tracks along the Ostlinken and between Lund and Hässleholm or Gothenburg and Borås. There is also strong local and regional involvement. There, municipalities and regions want to expand society by increasing housing construction. That's what community planning should look like. Here and now we are in a situation where the proposal is out for a referral. We're about to have hearings. I am really looking forward to listening to all the comments. But, of course, the Government's ambition is to continue what we have begun. I have at some point said that lay short lies. By that I mean that it is not the time to do what I think Jens Holm is proposing: to lift large, important objects out of the national plan and stop a construction, whether it is Cross-connection Södertörn or one of the main railway initiatives, as I know other parties are proposing. I think that would be unfortunate. Infrastructure is a long-term commitment. Municipalities and regions are prepared to do this. This also testifies to the discussion about four tracks between Uppsala and Stockholm. It is important to know if the conditions hold. The starting point must be that it is long-term commitments by the state, but also by municipalities and regions. That's my ambition.
i-92T7N3qopQZBrKvxWemcyP	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I have a few comments. As I said in my first speech, I think that a minister who has been in the government for so long now could take his own responsibility instead of screwing up previous governments. The Government is also well aware that in the moderate budget we invest as many SEK in infrastructure as the government does in its budget. What the Government chooses to emphasise here is new infrastructure. But I think – and I think that a lot of Swedes throughout the country agree with me – that maintenance is also important. We can fight for money the best we want. I don't know which one of us is facing the worst dilemma, but in that case, it's all of us. I heard the Government say in an earlier debate here that what politicians are about is choosing and prioritising. Perhaps we have done so in different ways. I did not even intend to mention the high-speed train in this debate. However, as I said, I was inspired by the previous debate. I do not remember the exact words, but the Government made a point of the fact that the previous government and Anders Borg did not, in any case, invest in the railways. It is well known what the Moderates think today. But it is also well known, as the Government has said to me at some point in a debate, that it was actually the Moderates who put forward that proposal. So that is not really true either. All of us commuters who live in Uppsala County have recently been under severe pressure and stress because the train traffic has certainly not worked on the route. There's interference every day. People can't trust the train to go. People can't trust that they'll get to work. I have read in the newspaper that people have been forced to resign because they cannot put their lives together. It is urgent to look at this bet. As I also said in my introductory speech, it is already a socio-economically sound investment here and now. As I said, this is an extension that is of national interest. The government said that we politicians must take care of everyone's interest. I live in Uppsala, but this is an extension that is of national interest. It is not only Uppsala County and Stockholm County that have said that it is a priority but many more counties around Mälardalen but also our Norrlandslän. There are several calculations that show the social benefits of this, including a study from Sweco from a couple of years ago that I want to read a quote from: It's pretty clear. Another, rather new, report from the Mälardal Council states that it is clear that it is estimated to cost billions to not complete the lighthouse track. So it's a very good investment. Madam President, I would like I would like to go back to the part that I included in my little summary of the promises made by the Social Democrats on several occasions, but also to the agreement that has been signed with the municipalities and the region. It is important for all people to know if you can trust an agreement with the state. It is not only representatives in Uppsala County who are interested in the Government's answer to that question. I heard him say-- I've heard him say it before-- that laying cards is lying. But can it be trusted that the state will fulfil its agreements?
i-SYvoxVQxTxntGXugJfDET7	Madam President, I would like As I said in my previous speech, it was good that the Minister for Infrastructure was clear about the South East Link in Blekinge. In December, the Minister could be clear about this and say that it will be completed within the timetable that has already been established. It is not the Swedish Transport Administration's proposal, so you can say that the Minister has snapped the Swedish Transport Administration's nose. He has promised to put it briefly and said that previous funding and timetable apply. We have the same problem with the four track between Uppsala and Stockholm. The region and municipalities Uppsala and Knivsta have shaken hands with the state. They've committed themselves to building tens of thousands of new homes, and they'll get a proposal like this from the Swedish Transport Administration! It completely puts aside the feet of this cooperation. Since I did not receive an answer, I would like to ask my question again. Can the Minister show the same leadership as he did on the South East Link and say that the lighthouse track should be built and that it should be built within the previously stated timetable?
i-HKRUrR3hV9VonHNLenm1A8	Madam President, I would like Thank you, both Jens Holm and Jessika Roswall! I first take note of what Jessika Roswall says. I think this is important. It is not only a regional policy issue, although it is also very important for the regions of Uppsala and Stockholm. Nor is there any doubt that this is socially viable. This is very much a national interest. I remember the last time we had courtings about the national plan. Elvy Söderström from Västernorrland highlighted that one of the most important initiatives for those in Norrland was the four track investment between Stockholm and Uppsala. That's the way it is. Together with Ostkustbanan and Norrbotniabanan it is incredibly important to build Sweden together. It provides more space for freight transport but also for passenger transport. I also think it is absolutely right that it costs even if you do not build this. That's what the Mälardal Council reported, and I assume Jessika Roswall agrees. It is also my point when I hear that some parties, including the Moderates, say no to important infrastructure objects. You want to stop the investment on new main tracks. Not building costs money, too. What happens if we do not invest in Gothenburg– Borås, Lund– Hässleholm or Ostlänken? What's the effect? How full on the road? What jobs are lost, not only by the construction itself, but also by the dynamic effects that arise when labour market commuting is widened? The arguments for implementing these investments are incredibly strong, and this applies both to the purely economic and, above all, to the climate policy. We must ensure that we can travel climate smart in the future and that Sweden's emissions will be net zero to 2045. This will not least require more rail investments. Jessika Roswall is right that it was a moderate-led government – the alliance government – that just before the 2014 elections proposed the so-called construction of Sweden. I think a lot of people thought that was good. My predecessor Anna Johansson continued in 2014 in a Social Democratic-led government. She went in and said: That's great, we set up a Swedish negotiation and start a job. The problem is that the Moderates have changed their minds again, as in other long-term issues. Just as in defence policy, energy policy and other things, the Moderates cannot hold on to the previous view. Now they are suddenly opposed to what they previously thought was a very important initiative, namely the construction of new main roads. This is the fundamental dilemma. Infrastructure investments are not only four-year-old and apply not only over an election movement, but they require long-term answers with broad participation. These are long-term commitments. That's why I think you should stick to putting cards lying and not lift big objects out of the pitch unless it happens to extremes or you have to make a move. I also think that the message that the then alliance government finally gave was important, that is to say that more capacity is needed in the rail system. Anders Borg had to eat that. I think the message was important, because it's full on the tracks. This applies not only between Stockholm and Uppsala, but in large parts of Sweden. That is why more is needed, and that is why we have put forward an infrastructure bill with a record development framework of 437 billion. It houses the construction of the Gothenburg– Borås, Lund– Hässleholm and Ostlänken lines, which constitute new main roads for high-speed trains. It also houses investments in Norrbotniabanan, Sydostlinken and four track between Stockholm and Uppsala. Let us listen to the views on the Trafikverket's choice of priorities in this. Then we wait for the preparation in the Government Office. I will listen carefully, and I think that very many already know the government's starting points for us to present the final plan in June 2022.
i-XHXzQKD2E1xpmUQMoh8ouz	Madam President, I would like Yeah, there it is again! It's the Moderates' fault. It is the Moderates who do not invest enough in infrastructure. And what do we do when the Moderates don't spend money on this? I don't understand why Tomas Eneroth can't answer the question of what happens if we don't invest in maintenance. However, this is not about the interpellation. Nor is it about high-speed trains, and perhaps I was the one who made a recording about it. I cannot help but mention that the Social Democrats obviously continue to insist on investing in high-speed trains so that people can quickly get between Stockholm and Gothenburg or Stockholm and Malmö instead of investing in people being able to get to and from their jobs quickly. The fact that the Social Democrats stick to this idea is a betrayal of the people who freeze on the platform and cannot get to work and are forced to resign. As I said, this is not about the promises of the Moderates, but about the promises of the Social Democrats. Stefan Löfven promised in 2014 when this would be built and when it would be put into operation. This was repeated during the 2018 election campaign. Even my former benchmate, Ardalan Shekarabi, has promised this. Tomas Eneroth has also done so, which I mentioned earlier. Election promises do not seem to be real promises, but they appear to be hollow. That is why I had a question about written agreements, and that is something we have discussed quite well today. They still have to stay in place, don't they? I know it's not just me and the Moderates wondering this. The other day I saw an article where Social Democrats from Gävle asked the same question. Can elected representatives around the country trust the state to keep its side of the agreement?
i-F28E4DZLiFEVtD2QxRtJGi	Madam President, I would like I realise that it is in the nature of the matter that there will be a discussion of what the Moderates and the Social Democrats have said. That is the point and business idea of having a political debate here in Parliament. The fact that I pointed it out now was due to the fact that the Moderates have for e exceeded SEK 30 billion less to new infrastructure while Jessika Roswall argues that there must be more new infrastructure. Somewhere that has to stick together. The construction of new main tracks has nothing to do with people just going between Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. It is about railways that go through Norrköping, Linköping, Jönköping, Borås and Hässleholm, yes, the whole of Sweden. Large parts of Sweden are being built together. In the same way we do with Norrbotniabanan between Skellefteå, Umeå and up to Luleå. That is how we build rail systems, and we do so in order to increase labour market regions and to facilitate long-distance transport through the country with both freight and passenger traffic. This is an important starting point for us, and that is why we are investing more than ever in infrastructure. The government's starting point is, as I have said, that is to say, that the table is short. I think it's important. It is also important to keep our word on long-term commitments and promises. I therefore point out that it was worrying when the Alliance Government said that they wanted a construction of Sweden but then backed away from it. It is important that signals about infrastructure are long-term. Now we have a consultation round that I look forward to. I will listen to all the comments. In June, the government will put its foot down and tell us what the national plan will be like. I feel confident that we have a good consultation procedure in order to listen to all the views and that we will be able to present this in the spring.
i-WqYfb52XstW1qG8a63xwaj	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked the Minister for Climate and Environment whether the Minister intends to take immediate action to reduce forest vulnerability to climate and biodiversity, whether the Minister intends to take action to ensure long-term protection of the remaining old natural forests due to their high biological values and large carbon stocks, whether the Minister intends to promote forestry methods based on the best scientific knowledge, and whether the Minister intends to take further measures to strengthen all the values of the forest, including local and global climate benefits, air and water purification, tourism and recreation. The work within the government is so divided that the questions raised in the interpellation mainly fall within my remit, and the interpellation is therefore answered by me. Climate change could have more consequences for forestry. It is therefore important that forest management is planned with current and future climate change in mind. The Forest Management Board's climate adaptation action plan is an important part of the work. The forest industry can contribute to climate benefits by, among other things, increasing the substitution of bio-based alternatives for fossil-based raw materials and products. On 10 November last year, the proposal laid down a strengthened ownership, flexible forms of protection and increased incentives for forest conservation on a voluntary basis (p. 2021/ 22:58) at Parliament's table. The proposal contains, among other things, measures to strengthen biodiversity one and reduce vulnerability one in a changed climate. The bill is now under consideration in the Riksdag. S protected forest habitats are found throughout the country. Many of the values are best preserved by being left untouched, while other values benefit from active care. The Government has a clear ambition that protected forests should not be harvested but should be preserved either through formal protection or through voluntary provisions. The proposal therefore contains several measures to protect such forests. Among other things, the proposal includes proposals for replacement land for owners of protected forest, and the government announces a number of assignments on, among other things, developed instruments and forms of work for nature conservation as well as new and expanded national parks. Along the entire Swedish mountain chain there are large contiguous areas with natural forests that are largely unaffected, and there are high natural values. The natural forests are located above and in close proximity to the border of mountain forest. The protection of these forests, together with the protection of other forests, contributes to Sweden's international commitments under the Convention on Biological Diversity. By the end of 2020 561 000 hectares of productive forest land above the mountain forest border were formally protected. This represents half of all productive forest land in the area. In prop osition, the government considers that protected state forests above and in close proximity to the border of mountain forest should be protected as soon as possible. The Government believes that a proposal for a national target for increased sustainable growth in forests should be developed. The target should focus on increased growth in biomass through improved forest management, while increasing climate adaptation and biodiversity. With the aim of contributing to the objective of increased sustainable growth, a long-term advisory campaign should be developed. S cow owners should be supported in developing resilient and vital forest systems capable of adapting to a changing climate and farming methods that support climate-friendly forestry. The Government also believes that the strategy should be a forerunner in sustainable forestry and take great account of the natural and cultural environment as well as the reindeer industry. In conclusion, it is my assessment that the proposed proposal will help to strengthen the many values of forests, and I look forward to Parliament's consideration of them.
i-2R9Sb3ryc3MCfhk2AmsPuB	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Rural Affairs for the answer to my interpellation. In Sweden, at least from the political establishment, the forest is often seen as a basic industry. So is it. But the fact that the forest is a basic industry would be synonymous with us cutting down as much forest as possible and converting the trees into timber, biomass, paper or other is a somewhat simplified picture of the incredibly important resource that the forest is. The forest has so many other sides. Now there have been a number of interesting reports that point to the importance of letting the forest stay and grow for climate reasons. The trees simply bind carbon in both their branches and what grows but also in the root system and the complex ecosystem that trees and a forest are. There's a lot of coal and other greenhouse gases tied up there. If you cut down the forest and turn the forest into a clearing house, it releases huge amounts of greenhouse gases. The new findings are very interesting and important for us to take part in. Each tree binds during its lifetime maybe five to six tons. The Swedish forest binds about 50 million tonnes of carbon dioxide each year. It is about as much as the country Sweden releases completely. It is a fantastic carbon sink, and a fantastic work is done in the quiet among all our trees and everything else that grows. In the Institute of Economic Development's annual report, which I refer to in my interpellation, KI addresses precisely the role of forests as a carbon sink and the important value that forests can have. It is about the importance that we may be able to find support systems to help forest owners to leave the forest standing. For example, the Institute proposes financial subsidies to forest owners to allow the forest to stand instead of cutting it down. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) and the UN Panel on Biological Diversity (UN Panel on Biological Diversity) are based on similar reasoning and have called on their Member States to do similar things. When I listen to the Minister's reply to me, there are several things that I think are good. The government wants to protect more forest and so on, and we will have sustainable forest management. I would like the Minister to be a little more specific about what has been proposed in various contexts. For example, it is important to find new economic instruments to help forest owners to leave the forest instead of cutting it down. Could that be something that the Minister could consider? It is also the case that forestry itself is very important. In Sweden, we have forestry that is geared unilaterally towards woodland use, i.e. that we turn the forest into a bare house. We cut down virtually all the trees, and then they plan new ones. Shouldn't it be a good idea to find other forms of forestry? I'd like to ask the Minister that. For example, it can be clean forestry — not cutting down all the trees. Even there, we may need political and financial support to support such practices.
i-4rt5A78okjziAci2ot8YNL	Madam President, I would like It is as Jens Holm says: The forest is our green gold, and it has so many values. A sustainable forestry policy contains all the elements of sustainability, i.e. that it should be economic, social and also environmental. The forest has built our prosperity and will continue to build it. It has created many green jobs, and I would also like to see a continuation of that. It has been and is, just as Jens Holm takes up, a wonderful place for recreation, for hunting, for berry picking and for other things. Forests play a central role in climate change. I did not hear Jens Holm say it, but it is clear that the forest's two contributions to the work of removing the fossil products and instead using the forest climate is equally important. The forest is good both as a carbon sink and as a replacement. This applies, for example, when we build in wood, as the government wants, or in other materials. The government wants to see a larger proportion of wooden buildings. We must strike the balance between using the forest climate-smart, having the productivity that we see in the forest and preserving the forest that is worthy of protection. Madam President, I would like Incentives the honourable Member asked me about. Incentives are found in the forest bill and in other things, i.e. when it comes to the protected forests that are not to be harvested. If you make a voluntary provision there you should also get more paid for the forest – 1.25 instead of as much as it is valued at. There are many different research reports. There has just come a new one where the researchers have looked at the boreal forest landscape that we belong to. On the contrary, it shows that with intensive use we have been able to increase our coal supply. On the contrary, where it has not been used as intensively, it has been much the same. Various exciting research reports are being produced, in which the honourable Member is quite right. As the honourable Member says, we have left a forest bill, and it contains a great deal. It contains what Mr Holm is concerned about, such as climate change and forestry. It includes increased support and opportunities for forest owners to adapt to climate change. It contains replacement land for the protection of forests and continued farming for the individual. It includes developed instruments and working arrangements for increased commitment to nature conservation. So the bill contains a very good one. It contains things that allow us to continue to see the green gold and that we can cultivate our forest but do it properly. It also includes what all forestry methods – including the farming methods that are nature-based solutions for climate adaptation – should be based on, namely scientific basis and proven experience. I look forward to the parliamentary treatment of the forest bill, which is now taking place. It has already begun in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture.
i-3x1F5gGhEwoG6PKqMJzmJZ	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by commenting on the protection of mountain forests, as the Minister mentioned in his first reply. This is about 560 000 hectares of productive forest land, which is now protected. 560,000 hectares of forest – how much is it? In 2021 approximately 285 000 hectares of forest were harvested in Sweden, i.e. about half of how much we have protected around the mountains. In two years we have cut down as much as the total protection we have of the mountain forest. I find it interesting to know the proportions a little bit. In 2021 it was probably a record in cubic metres of how much forest was harvested in Sweden: 96 million cubic metres! There is an extreme amount of forest that is harvested in Sweden. I would like to ask the Minister if she thinks it is reasonable. Is this sustainable forestry? I think that today we have a view of the forest that is very one-sidedly focused on the forest being cut down. In more than nine cases out of ten, conventional wood-based practices apply, i.e. total forest felling. It is, of course, to the great detriment of biodiversity and also of the hunter and berry picker, as the Minister mentioned here. The next time they come to the forest, it just doesn't stand, because everything has been cut down.
i-J6Nx5vBZNR1FnVv3zALy7A	I also wonder, Madam President, about the protection AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg is talking about. It would be interesting to know what new forms of protection the government is actually thinking about. If we take voluntary protection, we see that it is not surrounded by the same protection as formal protection. Voluntary protection can be exchanged for another or cancelled next year and so on. There's no long-term perspective in that. I would simply like to know whether the Minister has proposed new forms of protection that are long-term and sustainable. Then we have some of the elephant in the room, and it is our own common forest company: Sveaskog, which is a very large forest owner in Sweden. We cannot say that they are engaged in particularly sustainable forestry, at least not in my opinion. The majority of Sveaskog's forestry is carried out with the area as the norm. Here, the Minister could go in with new owners directly to Sveaskog and demand that they carry out more of clean and more of modern gentle management methods. Is the Minister prepared to give such ownership directives to Sveaskog?
i-RG2rGEnneTnQuYaybnM7ke	Madam President and Jens Holm! I would like to remind you that forestry policy was changed in 1993, when we had the two equal objectives of production and the environment. Much of the forest we see right now has no more than 30 years on the neck. It is therefore necessary to have a long-term perspective when discussing these issues and to understand how a change takes place. We know what forest growth looks like. It is about the forest we see now and what it will look like in the future. We have, as the honourable Member knows, forest growth every year. We have had forest growth for over 100 years. It's about how the forest has been managed. When you have taken a tree you have also planted several. It is something that is the strong thing about Swedish forestry policy: that you take care of your forest. Mångbruk we also have, and we have a lot of smaller forest owners who make sure that there is a varied forestry that is good. But one thing is absolutely right. The government's clear opinion, and what is also in the forest bill, is that the state should take the lead when it comes to forestry. And so do you in many ways. I will try to remember what else the honourable Member asked about. One thing I would like to mention is the voluntary provisions. If it is something we know about Sweden's foresters – and there are a lot of them – it is that you take care of your forest. Voluntary provisions are made. It is, of course, not the same form of protection, but it creates the biodiversity that the honourable Member is talking about. It also creates added value throughout the forest. I think that has served Sweden well. We have formal protection, but we also have voluntary provisions. I think it's a good order. I also believe that we simply have more protected forests because we have a system where voluntary provisions can be made. The aim of a forester is, of course, also to ensure that a really good and workable forest with the values that foresters want.
i-cvzt42ronUt8Xd2rQESEi	Madam President, I would like The Minister did not answer my question about Sveaskog, so now the Minister has to do it. This concerned new owner directives to Sveaskog on alternative methods of use and to steer Sveaskog towards more sustainable forestry. It is Sweden's largest forest owner we are talking about, so it is not unimportant how we control Sveaskog. Then, Madam President, I am a little worried when Anna-Anna-Caren Sätherberg talks about the fact that we have so much growth in the Swedish forest. That is true, but from a biodiversity perspective it is a bit irrelevant if what we have are long lines of monocultures of wood plantations. After all, we want living forests with great biodiversity, and we also want mixed forests so that there are not only long rows of spruce or pine. We want more deciduous forest. Then we are back again in forestry methods. The conventional practice consists of taking down the entire forest and replacing it with plantation. If we can have another, clean forestry, we can have much greater variation, which is good for biodiversity. We also allow more carbon and greenhouse gases to be bonded in the forest if we leave more trees standing. The policy for Sveaskog I think it is important that the Minister responds to. It is good that the Minister says that the state should take precedence, but there is a great deal left to do here. I would also like a clearer answer to what new methods of use the government is prepared to support. Is the government, for example, prepared to regulate or provide financial support for clean forestry for all forest owners?
i-UrADATiv1WyQ6RT5RBNP5b	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for your commitment to these issues! As I began with, the forest is the green gold. It has served us well and built our prosperity, while now it can make a major contribution in terms of climate change, both as a carbon sink and by enabling us to develop new products instead of being dependent on fossil products – and also building on wood. I have raised a motion in Åre municipal council, so now Åre is the first municipality in Sweden to have a Wood First Act, i.e. to choose wood first in constructions. As I also said, it is the government's clear view – it also says in the forest bill – that the state should of course take the lead in sustainable forestry. There are also several proposals in the forest bill to have advisory campaigns and help foresters to simply increase sustainable forest growth while at the same time being able to develop resilient and vital forest systems. This already contains the forestry bill, which I hope will receive positive treatment from the Riksdag. It is now on Parliament's table. But that is quite right: we must find the balance, and we have done so in our equal goals. We must also see the forest as the climate changer it is and use it in a good and climate-smart way.
i-Pm9Pccam5wMscQpHRAZj7N	Madam President, I would like Daniel Bäckström has asked me if the government intends to come back, after its analysis and dialogue with the agricultural industry, with concrete measures to meet the cost development of agricultural inputs. Mr Daniel has also asked me whether the government will take any steps to compensate for the increase in the costs of diesel agriculture suffered as a result of the politically decided increase in the reduction obligation. The profitability of agriculture has been challenged by cost increases as a result of increased prices of several inputs. Cost increases not only affect Swedish farmers but are mainly linked to changes in commodity prices and energy prices in general. At the same time, the prices of most agricultural products have increased, which can partly compensate for the increased costs. In line with the Swedish Food Strategy, the Government is actively working to strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish agriculture in the long term. Three food strategy action plans have therefore been decided. The Action Plan Part 1 included investments of more than SEK 1 billion through national funds and earmarked funds in the rural development programme. The action plan part 2 included investments of SEK 122 million annually in 2020 – 2025 and an additional strengthening in 2020 of SEK 114 million. The Action Plan part 3 includes additional investments of SEK 74 million annually in 2021 – 2023. The Government estimates that for the years 2024 to 2025, SEK 36 million annually and for the years 2026 onwards SEK 11 million per year. The action plans include investments in research and innovation, regulatory simplification and skills provision. In addition, a further strengthening of SEK 10 million was announced annually for 2022 – 2025 in the budget proposal for 2022 (prop. 2021/ 22:1) to the wild boar package, which is an action in the Action Plans. In addition, the Government has made major investments in the budget for 2022 to strengthen infrastructure and services in rural areas. The design of the EU's common agricultural policy is also an important tool for strengthening Swedish agriculture. A key starting point when Sweden's strategic plan for the common agricultural policy is designed is to strengthen the profitability of agriculture and facilitate the achievement of the objectives of the food strategy. The strategic plan covers just over SEK 60 billion in total during the period 2023 – 2027. In addition to this, it is estimated that around SEK 4.3 billion during the same period will be added to national measures meeting the objectives of the common agricultural policy. I have a close dialogue with the industry on these issues with a view to continuing to analyse and monitor the situation. Now on Thursday, 3 February, the National Board of Agriculture presents the sector calculation for 2021, which will show the current situation for agriculture. How the price development of inputs and agricultural products changes in the future will be an important factor in the profitability of agriculture together with the government's efforts to improve the profitability and competitiveness of Swedish agriculture in the long term.
i-ARm2A9xkJJ8xuxnwdusHaj	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for this answer to a question that is extremely urgent at this very time when Sweden and the other countries of the European Union and the region are facing a serious security policy crisis that affects us in many ways when it comes to inputs and risks, while Sweden's farmers are now bearing enormous cost increases. I submitted a question before Christmas in response to the LRF's report on increased costs of just over 4 billion. The Minister's response was that there was dialogue and analysis. I followed this up on the basis of the worsening situation. This has developed, and on the basis of calculations it continues to deteriorate – the LRF has in its reporting shown 5.7 billion currently. The answer we heard at the beginning of this debate was about analysis and continued dialogue. However, it is not only dialogue and analysis that is important, Madam President, but it is also important to show momentum and to take these issues very seriously. It is, of course, about our security of supply and security of supply and about the conditions for many entrepreneurs around the country who are now considering whether they can continue their activities at all. We know that this is a fact. The Minister wants to wait for the Ministry of Agriculture's sector calculation, which is presented later this week, but we see and hear from many agricultural representatives around the country that this is serious and that efforts are needed here and now. We in the Center Party have taken the initiative in the Riksdag Finance Committee about an emergency billion. In the budget for this year, we also added 1 billion to the rural development programme. This was not supported by the other parties. The Swedish Democrats, the Christian Democrats and the Moderates did not choose to add a single crown to agriculture in this difficult situation. We have gone further and presented a programme of measures for Sweden's rural areas with proposals for conversion, increased use of renewable fuels, compensation for the increased costs and tax incentives to manage pricing. This would make the conditions more reasonable both for agricultural entrepreneurs and for others as well as for rural thoughts. In addition to the emergency billion, we have proposed that the diesel tax credit that farmers are given the opportunity to make be doubled to SEK 4 per litre. This would provide an extremely important opportunity in the near future to improve the conditions for Swedish farms, which are now under tremendous pressure. How does the government view a double diesel refund in the near future? We have both regulations and technical possibilities to implement this very quickly. Does the government intend to return to the Swedish parliament with a proposal on this and follow the initiative of the Center Party on this issue too? Madam President, I would like There are many factors here that work together. However, the overall picture is very worrying, and we must take this very seriously.
i-8NZZnpT5o1yvF9rzHBj3sg	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by welcoming AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg as Minister for Rural Affairs. It was long awaited; we have waited for this for a long time. AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg's role is really needed in this difficult situation. I have heard the answer to Mr Bäckström's question, and unfortunately it breathes very great passivity. It describes much backwards but says a little about what the Social Democrats and the government want to do in the future. The normal situation in a cost crisis like this, when market prices are fluctuating, is not that policy meets this with political action. However, agriculture is certainly a major exception, and I think it can be shown. Agriculture is a low-wage sector; the average yield is somewhere around half a percent. This compares with many more percent in most other industries. Agriculture has extremely long lead times. If you shut down animal production... I've been a dairy farmer myself for 20 years... it'll take at least five years to rebuild it. The whole agricultural side has a lot of other side effects. Agriculture keeps the countryside alive, keeps an open landscape and contributes very actively to biodiversity. Of course, it also feeds us with food, food and supplies for biofuels and other things. Overall, this means that there is a real need to match up with government efforts in the agricultural sector when it is in crisis as it is now. According to the picture I have from Gotland, this is perhaps the worst crisis – worse than the crisis with the drought in 2018 and, on Gotland, also in 2019. Why is that? There are four factors that strike at the same time. It is about the price of feed – or essentially the price of soya – as well as the price of fertiliser, diesel and electricity. Above all, this is hitting animal production hard because it has costs on all these sides. One thing that worries me very much is that it is the younger farmers – the newlywed, who have just taken over the companies – who lose their appetite first. This means that we risk the younger generation losing faith in the future. This is largely because they have less margins when they start a business– they haven't had time to make that much money. Overall, it is a very ominous picture. Rapid action is extremely urgent. Whatever the government is up to, there must not be liquidity enhancements in one year's time or in the autumn, but this must actually happen in spring if it is to have a real effect. There are animal farms, for example in Vännäs in Västerbotten, which have already sent their animals away today because the efforts have not arrived in time. My question is: what do the government and the Social Democrats really want? After all, our entire food strategy is at stake. We want to increase, but now we risk cutting back.
i-QKJhJLzCAPamwuVNzFUTta	Madam President, I would like There is a crisis in Swedish agriculture. Not a day goes by without us seeing or hearing about the crisis in the media. What, then, is the heart of the matter, Madam President? Yes, the costs to farmers have completely exploded. The price of diesel, electricity, feed, commercial manure and, in principle, everything the farmer uses for food production has increased. This is very serious. We have had a negative development for quite a few years now. I am thinking of the milk crisis in 2014 and the years after. Then came the drought in 2018, and now we have this crisis. Many farmers with whom I speak say that they must never recover – there is no buffer to take off. For several years I have had discussions with various ministers. We have seen that about five dairy farmers have left each week for a few years. It's a little smaller than it's been. Today we have about 2,950 dairy businesses left in the country. Unfortunately, with this crisis, developments will not stop. More have already stopped or announced that they will stop. Why? Because the economy is so strained. The revenue is too small and the expenditure is too high. This is no wonder. How much does it cost today to buy a litre of diesel at a pump? It's 21, 37. A farmer said this to me: It's bad now, but think when spring use starts and we start driving tractor seriously. I don't even have the guts to think about that at the moment. We Christian Democrats have tabled a proposal in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture to reduce the burden of reduction. This would mean a reduction of the diesel price by 3 SEK. Today we had this in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture, but unfortunately we did not get a majority in favour of the proposal. The government and the Center said no to the proposal. My question to the Government is: Now the government says no to reduce the diesel price by 3 SEK, but what is the government's plan to reduce the cost of agriculture? The government cannot just say no, no, no, but there must be some proposals that can show that it actually rules and has something to do with agriculture. The government and the government cannot simply say that it is for reasoning, doing analyses and dealing with knowledge acquisition. When will we receive a response from the Government and the Government about what will happen?
i-K39qXHAEqQfG1oC5oXG2xy	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for being here listening to our urgent questions. I would also like to thank Daniel Bäckström from the Center Party, who wrote this important interpellation, and Magnus Oscarsson from the Christian Democrats, who took the initiative that the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture should discuss this issue with the Government, the Swedish Board of Agriculture and the LRF on Thursday. As we have heard here in the past, prices of agricultural intervention are increasing and this is partly indirectly related to the pandemic, but partly also to political decisions. It is about political decisions in other EU countries. This is about Swedish decisions. It is about EU adaptations that indirectly have effects in Sweden because of wrong policies in the EU. It is also a question of completely Swedish political decisions. The result is a crisis for agriculture. It is a crisis in which farms have started to close, and there will be many more abandoned farms if nothing is done. It is a crisis in which such an important belief in the future risks being eroded, a belief in the future that is so important for investment and for recruiting young farmers for the industry. It is also important for the development of the sustainability of agriculture. Of course, those political parties who did not see one or the other must learn their lesson about reality. It is about Europe, electricity supply, preparedness and the profitability of agriculture. It is important, but it does not help agriculture here and now. It is a homework that other parties have to think about in peace and quiet. Here and now, concrete measures are needed to facilitate agriculture, and it is urgent. If the government does not do this now, much of the good conditions that exist in agriculture will be thrown away to grow and to reduce the environmental footprint and carbon footprint. It seems like a crossroads, I think. We are either moving forward, and the world's best agriculture is getting even better and bigger, or we are going backwards, and agriculture is shrinking, losing momentum and entering a fatal, negative spiral. I now hope for a concrete commitment from the Minister to help specifically for agriculture. I also hope that the government is more open-minded than the minister's party colleagues were in committee today, where they rejected the Christian Democrats' and Sweden Democrats' initiative to reduce the reduction obligation, so that the diesel price would be just over SEK 3 lower by pump. It was about reducing the mandatory incorporation of mostly imported biofuels. That would mean SEK 750 million directly to agriculture. This would give Swedish haulage companies a more fair competitive position, and it would make forestry easier. This would make it easier to live in rural areas for many. Can the Minister promise these two things: specific aid for agriculture now and a reduction in the reduction requirement for diesel?
i-7r6G6jKvVL2xC1Gs4wuYCB	Madam President, I would like Thank you, gentlemen, for all the recordings! We've had this conversation before. No one should believe that the government does not see the seriousness of the situation in agriculture. No one should believe that the government is sitting on its hands either. During my first week as Minister, I called the Chairman of the National Federation of Farmers and had a meeting, where he presented to me the cost development as it looked in December. We jointly realised that we also had to develop the revenue side, or at least it was a request on my part. As one of the honourable Members said, the cost trend was just over EUR 4 billion. Instead, it is now showing a cost trend of 5 billion. It's hard just to put your finger up in the air if you can't see if there's something else that's happened. Has the settlement price been increased? Are there other things that have contributed to cost and revenue development, but not enough? This will now be presented on Thursday. Gentlemen! Now we will have the sectoral analysis on Thursday, and those of you who sit on the Committee on Environment and Agriculture will have it presented directly there. Then I would ask you to understand that promises cannot be made here and now. You have to find out what it looks like. You can't ignore the analysis. I'd like to say a few more things. If measures are needed, they should of course be simple and effective. It has to work here and now. That's absolutely right. I would like to raise a few more points that have been made in the debate. Of course, we need to see increased biofuel production in Sweden. After all, we cannot depend on Saudi Arabia, because then we do not control the development of inputs. There, the government invests both in biofuels and in the climate category of biogas. They will be increased next year to SEK 700 million. This is hugely important for agriculture. We can see that it does not look dark everywhere, even if it is so in many places. Where a change has been made and does not have this need for inputs, it does not look the same. But in many places, as Members describe, it is an incredibly tough situation, as we are well aware. Nevertheless, let me highlight something about Swedish agriculture that is positive. We see more Swedish food sold in grocery stores, which is hugely positive. If you choose Swedish and buy a bag for 100 SEK, 20 SEK goes to the farmer. If you choose to only trade as usual, it is 9 crowns that go to the farmer. More should therefore be encouraged to act in Swedish. We see exports of agricultural products increasing, which is also positive. So we see positive things, but we also see the situation that is here and now. On Thursday, the Swedish Board of Agriculture will present its sector analysis to several people here. Then I'll have it, too. What did it look like in 2021, and what is the forecast for 2022? It is a basis that I think we all need.
i-vRHg98VKr7VznSKJydYmH	Madam President, I would like After all, the Centre Party has been highly involved in several processes that underpin both the strategic plan and the transition year when it comes to the rural development programme. Without our efforts, the conditions would probably have been different. I suppose it's being analysed and we're waiting for a report. But what does the further planning look like? What is the planning for Friday and the coming weeks – when will the government come back with proposals on how to tackle the situation and draw conclusions based on what will be presented? I assume that the government can also know how conditions have deteriorated drastically and how hard this hits individual traders, who will continue to make decisions for spring use and planned operations on the husbandry side. They have not yet been able to obtain fertilisers because prices have skyrocketed so tremendously. Among other things, it has to do with the fact that Russian gas has become more expensive or less accessible. This affects production, and it is also a security policy link that is there. It is an addiction, on which the Minister is concerned, that forces us to relate to how inputs from other countries affect Swedish conditions for production. Let me say a few words about the Center Party's position on the reduction obligation. We are behind the reduction obligation. It is an important instrument for changing and achieving sustainability and reducing climate emissions. We need to do this. It is not at this time a question of cutting down on the reduction obligation. On the other hand, it is a question of taxing the content of each litre. It has an enormous effect, not least in the long term. Every deciliter that is mixed in by renewables, preferably produced in Sweden, not only strengthens the domestic economy. It also makes it more environmentally friendly. With a tax exemption, which the European Commission has proposed could apply from 1 January, it will have a huge effect on the price of pump. This, together with a doubling of diesel reductions, means that conditions can be improved quickly and that costs can be met. Madam President, I would like It is extremely important what signals the government sends to Swedish agriculture. There are parallels to other sectors. I've worked a lot on defence policy, and sometimes I think. Is it going to have to go so far as to lose our ability at home before we realize what the crisis is like and how serious it is and before we take action? I see great risks – that we are in a situation where there will be no action by the government, that we continue to analyse and buy time and that this actually has enormous consequences for Swedish production this year, completely contrary to the objective that we agree on within the framework of the food strategy. It is therefore very important that the Government and the Minister for Rural Development return immediately, after Thursday's presentation, with proposals for concrete measures.
i-4hGDotfW2HT5z452b63GRT	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer from the Government. According to estimates from the LRF that we have set t, it is very clear that we are moving up in the cost picture. That is 5.7 billion in the latest estimate, and it has risen quite quickly in just one month. It is said that it is a reduced profitability calculation by in the order of 1 billion in 2021 and that there will be another 1 billion in 2022. This will probably be seen by the Government on Thursday. Or perhaps there are even more powerful cases of profitability. We also know that there are quite a few branches in the agricultural sector that do not receive any compensation on the market at all. The pig industry is one of those. I think the egg industry is in exactly that position, too. I will give you a practical example to show how difficult this can be. I can tell you about an average Gotland farm – it's a real case – where they have 300 hectares of arable land and 500 cattle. There's a turnover of $5 million. Compared to the 5 million, they have a cost increase of 750 000. So it is 15% of turnover, straight up and down, on a board, in terms of the four factors. This beats incredibly fast. The answer given by the Government was that it should be simple and effective efforts. Yes, that's correct. But I really miss one thing: it's supposed to be quick action. That's almost the most important thing – that it goes fast. That is why the government must come back quickly. I also see that we must come back with efforts that will enable us to cope with Swedish competitiveness in the food industry but also with climate change. There can be no question of reducing the reduction obligation. If you remove the reduction obligation, you really walk away from the climate law, and that can never be a solution.
i-yHEQodbkndQCyndbgUuge	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. We adopted a food strategy – we have talked about this quite a few times – in June 2017. It was important that we adopted it and that we agreed politically, because it talks a lot about having a competitive agriculture, increasing profitability and increasing food readiness in the country. If you look at the results of the food strategy that we adopted in 2017, you will notice that it is actually exactly the opposite. With what is happening now, the pace will increase. Perhaps we agree on that. Nevertheless, I am pleased that the Government is saying that we are taking on board what we have now said and that the Minister is taking on board what is said on Thursday. I think it is now incredibly important that we see that the government is taking this very seriously. Speaking of the food strategy – I have said this before – I have met many farmers around the country. Still no one has said to me: Magnus! The food strategy you adopted was a good one. How much benefit I see from it at home on my farm! I haven't heard a single one say it. And it is quite a few years since we adopted the strategy. My question to the Minister is: what does the Minister say when she meets farmers and gets the same question?
i-BaAvfcCyJRgH33FyeuugJU	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Let's wait till Thursday! Maybe that's right. The timing of this interpellation may not be optimal, or it is completely optimal. Now it is clear what we expect from the government. We expect active action. I believe that the Minister will have to prepare for action, because there are already indications about income for agriculture today, whether or not they have increased. If one is to generalise, one might say that cereal prices have gone up quite well and milk prices are a little bit, and when it comes to meat it is worse. Thus, there are already indications that the price increase does not meet the cost increase. So the minister will have to prepare. We've been talking about biofuel incorporation. There is now a policy, for the sake of the climate, in which the blending of biofuels leads to the closure of farms – it is precisely in this situation. It cannot then be a good climate measure. This means that food production in Sweden is reduced. Since Swedish food production is among the best in the world in terms of climate pressure, reducing food production means an increased climate load. There'll be more imports. We don't want to eat less. Thus, efforts on the climate via reduction obligations and other climate requirements on agriculture lead to increased climate gas emissions in this situation. Needless to say, it also leads to a reduction in security in crisis and a deterioration in opportunities to live in rural areas. Lowering the climate impact of agriculture can be done later, provided we have viable industries left. We can follow what we are committed to in Europe – that is enough. We don't always have to be the best in the class.
i-3fGqoUattHpVdrmPCy7u7K	Madam President, I would like I would just like to remind the honourable Member that Swedish agriculture itself aims to be fossil-free in 2030. Of course, I and the government think that we should support it in many ways when the industry itself says that it is the model forward. The referral to the study on fossil-free agriculture is also coming this week, so this week is happening a lot. I think that Members, as I understand it, are also good to have with them the sectoral analysis of the Swedish Agriculture Agency, which is part of the analysis. I would also like to tell Members that the LRF's analysis came on Friday. So it is not that we are sitting on our hands. I hope no one thinks we do. We are fully aware of what is happening. But we also know that we wanted to see both the cost and revenue situation, and last Friday the LRF presented its analysis. I told you before, we'll buy more Swedish. Food exports are increasing. These are positive things and are also part of the food strategy. I do not know whether many farmers are talking about the food strategy, but I think that everyone thinks it is good when, for example, the price of milk is increased and there is a chain. I believe that it is the chain that is the strength of the food strategy, and I hope that the new common agricultural policy and the strategic plan that we have developed will also help to make it more active. As Members may know, the Energy Agency has also been tasked with making a control post for the reduction obligation to analyse whether we are right and what it looks like for both companies and citizens. They have that task right now. It goes without saying that we should change. We're going to have a climate transition, and we're going to have this right here and now. We will ensure that it also works in rural and sparsely populated areas, and we will ensure that it works in agriculture where the goal is a fossil-free agriculture in 2030. It's not many years away. We need to support this change, and we do so with, for example, the biogas initiative, what is in the climate range and other things. However, I would like to mention the exemption. That is something we are working on, and the government is soon sending an application for continued tax exemption for pure biofuels to the EU. In the event of the EU rejecting this application, we have also referred a memo to the effect that pure biofuels could be included in the reduction obligation. Our hope, of course, is that we can have that dialogue with the EU and that it will continue to say yes to that tax exemption. There I and the Center Party are in complete agreement, as we have been about quite a lot of things in recent years, but of course not everything.
i-H1mRcKMYeKj1ekQnKLHQqC	Madam President, I would like It is absolutely essential for the government to submit an application or to ensure that the tax exemption is extended in the case of highly mixed renewable fuels. In other words, there is a tax increase of 2 billion, which would have an enormous and serious impact on both continued demand and investment. Investors are now planning and planning to invest in renewable fuels in Sweden. These signals are extremely important, but we are also talking about the government taking the initiative at the end of the six-month period to free the tax-free low-interference of renewable fuels. It is nevertheless 30% of a litre that is renewable t, and we can see the effects of that now that costs run away. Such a tax exemption would be equivalent to SEK 1 and 10 øre per litre already this summer, which is extremely important effects in a situation where renewables will also increase by 2030. It also gives incentives for Sweden's farmers and forest owners to continue to invest and be able to make investments that change. Madam President, I would like I visited a farmer, a dairy farmer, in Fryksdalen on Friday. They have built solar cells, they have a chippan, they take advantage of the energy and they build wind farms. However, despite the large investments in renewable energy, this entrepreneur also mentions that the margins are currently on the wrong side. At the moment, clear action programmes are also needed on the part of the state, which balance the high costs. I still did not hear an answer to what the government's work looks like next week when it comes to returning with proposals that are sharp, that give effect in the near future and that also give a signal to Sweden's farmers to continue to invest.
i-HNxtCwTteREM7CogWexwEv	Madam President, I would like Thank you to all Members for your great commitment, which I share! Swedish farmers not only deliver the good food, they also ensure that we have rural development and create new green jobs. These are incredibly important companies that are needed for rural areas and society as a whole to function. The process ahead is that we get the analysis on Thursday. We must, of course, look at it and see what it says. The government is not unaware of what it looks like for many farmers right now, and after Thursday we will have a continued discussion. As Members say, this situation is under pressure. The government, like many of the Members of this House, wants to see increased food production. We had a discussion on the security situation when I was with the Environment and Agriculture Committee, as many have mentioned. Of course, we want to see increased production both in terms of total defence and in the food strategy that we have. We also want to see increased exports, and we want to see more buy the good products that agriculture and farmers make sure that we have in our shelves. With this, Madam President, I thank you very much for this evening.
i-WKwRyeaLRGw4ESRKuqiF3D	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me whether I and the government intend to act to ensure that residents in vulnerable areas receive a good postal service. The Swedish Post and Telecom Agency is the authority appointed by the Government to supervise compliance with the Postal Act and the regulations and permit conditions issued under the Act, which I also replied to Thomas Morell on his previous question on the same subject. The government thus operates in the postal sector through the designated authority, just as the government operates through the authorities in other policy areas. It is the supervisory authority's task to verify that Postnord meets the requirements of the postal regulations. The Swedish Post and Telecom Agency may give notice of any order required for compliance with the Postal Act, regulations or permit conditions issued pursuant to the Act. The order may be accompanied by a penalty payment. I have full confidence in the postal supervision of the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency and continue to follow this issue closely. When it comes to a company's communication and information to its customers, it is generally considered to be the company's operational activities. Postnord is a limited company with the Swedish and Danish State as owner and is subject to the Companies Act in a similar manner to privately owned companies. The Swedish Companies Act provides for a division of responsibilities between owners, board members and management. The company's board and management are responsible for the company's organisation and management of its affairs and the day-to-day management of the company's operational operations.
i-GnHBx8HKXa9tmzEsFkfy6W	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. This mail thing is important. In fact, sometimes it is vital for the mail to arrive, since there may be consignments containing equipment that a person needs for life - sustaining care at home. In the case I refer them to when I wrote the question and later the interpellation is about a television. It may not be so vital if it comes out or not. But that's the principle we're talking about. What happened was that Postnord said they did not drive into these vulnerable areas for health and safety reasons for the staff. I understand that people are protecting their staff so that they are not put at risk. But at the other end there is a customer who expects the package he is waiting for to arrive. Then Postnord, as well as other actors, must ensure that the package really comes forward. But when you don't even announce that the package is for pickup, the customer can't know. The same is true of packages that contain life support equipment for home care. Then it becomes even more difficult if the package does not arrive at the customer who is waiting for it. Law is not now on the table of the Government, but another minister has that area. But you need to have internal communication so that you can ensure that such an important function as the post office is, after all, working and important mail arrives. As far back as we can remember, the post office has been an important part of our society. Even the king sent people out on horseback to get the mail. It must work that way in our modern society as well. I'm not really happy with the answer I've got because it's been a little fuzzy in the edges. I do not really understand how the Government thinks it should solve the problem. There are a number of areas in Sweden that are so-called vulnerable areas. The vast majority of people who live there are ordinary honest people. They have only the bad luck of living in an area that others have taken as their area. In these areas, however, the functions of society must function all the way out. It's police, emergency services, ambulances and so on. But for the Government, it is important that the post office is provided so that those who live in these areas get what they should have. I look forward to an answer from the Government on this issue.
i-RrwMMo5xFR4FE7nt936r2c	Madam President, I would like It's important for the government – and I hear that it's also important for the interpellier – that there's a high-quality postal service across the country. That's where we all agree. The mail is supposed to work everywhere. There should be a postal service throughout the country, and everyone should be able to receive their letters and receive postal items as defined today, i.e. universal. The way in which the government governs activities, not only in this area but in all areas, is through authorities. There, the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency is the authority appointed by the Government to supervise and enforce the Postal Act and the regulations and permits granted under the Act. It is important to remember that in cases where there are health and safety problems in the distribution of personnel – it may be in vulnerable areas or in other areas – different societal functions must work together. This is already happening in our society. It may be the police who help in a matter or other social functions that cooperate. I was a little curious about what it was like during the active period. The area raised in the question was Gottsunda in Uppsala. During the period November – January, there were not much complaints to the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency that the post should not have arrived. I do not agree with the image that the post office is not working. In fact, during the period from 15 November to 10 January, not a single complaint had come to the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency regarding that postal area. Then, in fairness, I will say that not everyone gives their postal code when they make a complaint. However, when there is a complaint to be made for an area, this number tends to be given. Letters are distributed in the area in question, and the example that prompted the interpellier's question was a television that had not been driven to a household. Such a package cannot reasonably be regarded as falling within the scope of the universal postal service. And we also seem to agree on that. We also agree that it is clear that the post office will work throughout the country. I think it does, and I have good confidence in the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency, which monitors how the mail and other companies that deliver packages act in this area.
i-Vy2xQWPNUmwheeY8QXCez3	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. I am fully aware that the Government cannot stand and point with its whole hand and say what should be done. Nevertheless, the government has the full power to lay down guidelines for how things should work. There are parts in our society that don't really work together, and then you have to look at how they should work. Maybe it wasn't that dramatic with the TV set. But in any case, someone has paid for the transport of the TV from supplier to customer. If you have paid for it, it should be delivered. But it might as well have been medical equipment. It's the big hook here. A television set more or less doesn't kill people, but if they don't get the medicine they need, it's worse. It is therefore necessary to ensure that all consignments arrive. If there were no complaints in that area, it is fine. If so, it's great. But perhaps there were complaints in other areas. I know because I have relatives who drive – but not for Postnord but for another company – that it can be difficult to get there in these areas. There are restrictions on how to drive, and they must carry either security guards or police. It is sad that society is such that the mail cannot be delivered in the way it was done in the past. The mail car drove up and delivered the package. It's easy to say how hard it can be, but sometimes it's hard. We need to look at how this works and what social resources are needed for it to work. Those who are customers and recipients of a package also expect the package to arrive. If there were to be an obstacle along the way, the supplier would have to contact the recipient. It burst into the example I mentioned in my question. There's a lot to work with here. I did not really get an answer from the Government, but perhaps there will be an answer in the closing speech.
i-67Z6srfHLPr2kYZXdseneZ	Madam President, I would like In January 2018, the Swedish Parliament gave the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency the opportunity to provide regulations on the manner in which the delivery of postal items within the universal postal service is to be carried out. For some time now, the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency has been working to develop such regulations, and in May 2021 a consultation was carried out on draft regulations. I would also like to point out that there may be exceptional cases where something has fallen, but in essence the post office works just fine. Not only a single company, but the postal service as such, the postal service throughout Sweden, works well. The complaints are few, although every single complaint in itself is an improvement proposal that the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency follows up. The interpellant wondered how difficult it could be to do as in the old days when you drove up. I can see that in the past a television was a capital commodity that you might buy once in your lifetime, but nowadays we buy quite often large packages. It is not uncommon for the packages to be delivered to a point where we collect the package ourselves. That's what it looks like. There are also guidelines that the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency is working on how far away from such a point packages should be delivered. Nevertheless, I have good confidence that the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency will follow up on the notification of the point to which the package is delivered so that the person receiving the mail can retrieve the package. I understand, however, that this works essentially well, although I am aware that there may be isolated examples where something has fallen. But if you follow up the statistics in a structural way you can see that the post office in Sweden works well. I have full confidence that the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency is following up the issues in a good way.
i-YJDxS2hTp3uhgBdB3ZEnxC	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. I live in an area where you can choose whether you want the package home or to the office and get it there. Most people can, but at least that's how it works at home. I can choose if I want the package to go home or not. I do not live in such an area that is classified as a vulnerable area, but rather calm. The worst thing that can happen is that a deer runs over you when you go out. The problem is the areas where you cannot drive the car in, but where there is a threat. That is where the problem arises, and it is also where a problem arises if the goods are not a television but medical equipment that someone very well needs. If it doesn't get there, it's really bad. I hope that after this interpellation debate, the Government will follow up and engage in a dialogue on how we can improve and ensure that postal items also arrive in vulnerable areas and, if necessary, that other social functions are provided to support delivery so that they do not just miss and do not even notify the customer. I hope that there will be an improvement in this area.
i-PDQSQP1qoW19117j47LkH2	Madam President, I would like I have explained how the Swedish Government works and how the government, through the authorities, monitors activities such as the post office. I hope that the basic structure that we have in society will continue to work. I have no other opinion than that of the interpeller on the smooth operation of postal services in the country – and throughout the country, of course. My view is that it essentially does. Then I note that, apart from the case of a television, the interpellant raises many theoretical questions – in case there would be an area where mail distribution does not take place and in case it would be medical equipment. I have great confidence that the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency is following up the regulations in a structured way so that we have a well-functioning postal service in Sweden. This is, of course, something that we constantly follow up – how our authorities work and how they should ensure that the companies operating within their areas of responsibility do their best for the Swedish people.
i-Xoi9cuRWXPc5sqWMSzhrUT	Madam President, I would like Larry Söder has asked the Minister for Climate and Environment three questions. The first question is whether the Minister intends to clarify the conditions for technology choices at the highest voltage levels and, if so, how. The second question is whether the Minister intends to act to help permit processes take into account the system and preparedness perspective. The third question is whether the Minister believes that the electricity grids have a significant role to play in achieving the climate objectives and whether she intends to take any action within her area of responsibility on the basis of her position. The interpellation has been handed over to me. As Larry Söder points out, the climate justice investigation is in its second phase. In its interim report A climate-friendly environmental code for the present and the future, the study highlights the role of electricity grids in the climate transition. The study mentions, among other things, the issues that Larry Söder specifically mentions, namely that it should review whether it is possible to clarify the conditions for technology choices at the highest voltage levels and how system and preparedness perspectives should be taken into account in the concession testing and other environmental assessment. As the investigation is still ongoing, I cannot go into what it has come up with or what proposals may be made, but I have confidence that the investigator will do his utmost to come up with proposals that will have an impact on the lead times for the roll-out of electricity networks. Sweden faces significant electrification in order to phase out its dependence on fossil combustion and thereby achieve net zero emissions by 2045. In this transition, the electricity grid plays an essential role, and the government is therefore working for halved lead times for electricity grid expansion. At the same time, it is important that legal certainty and a high level of environmental protection are maintained.
i-13CidTby2XZZZpx5dxMwZo	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. It breathes that we see the same problem and that you work in the direction we want. But that Sweden's electricity grid is important for Swedish industry and Swedish citizens appears here and now, when the establishment of companies is denied due to the fact that the electricity grids are not being expanded at a sufficiently rapid pace while the construction of new housing in some cases stops for the same reason. In my view, processing times are crucial in such a situation as the one we are in. The Minister says in his reply that they work for halved lead times for power grid deployment. I note, however, that this work has not yet had an impact on the length of proceedings. According to the information I have on the evolution of the time for processing, this is not a good thing. The Swedish Energy Market Authority follows this and reports it in its annual report. In 2017, the processing time for new applications for network concession was 12 months. In 2018, it was 14 months. In 2019 it was also 14 months, and in 2020 it was 18 months. The processing time is thus increasing in this part. It gets longer and longer processing times when we would really need shorter and shorter. We know that Sweden's electricity grid is facing an armament process that will require sacrifices from all sides in order for this to be resolved. The government's satisfaction with the work done does not make me calm, unfortunately. Permit processes must be speeded up. It is a clear fact that the networks are crowded, and that is something that has become even clearer in recent years. Electricity networks should now not only deal with the expansion of housing and industry, which is important, but also with the future fleet of vehicles and new electric processes in industry and to connect new electricity generation. This is crucial not only for climate change but also for Sweden's future as a competitive nation. Compilations from bodies such as the Swedish Energy Agency, Energy Companies and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise point to a doubling of the demand for clean electricity to 2045. Sweden will build 500 km of new electricity line in the main grid, which will require sacrifices from many quarters. The choice of technology is crucial from the point of view of how fast the permit process can go, but also economically and in some cases in terms of results. Airline is both cheaper and faster and is assessed by the industry as a better option than burying the lines in terms of the higher voltage levels of the tribal and regional networks. Hence my question. One concrete example is SSAB's investment in Oxelösund, which the Minister probably knows well. It is currently stuck in a network concession test where ground or air pipeline is a crucial issue. In this respect, the strengthening of the electricity grid that needs to have been greatly facilitated by clearer legislation on technology choices would probably have been greatly facilitated. Hence my question about technology choices. I would therefore like to ask the Minister once again what the plan is for reducing lead times, which is crucial for us to make this roll and actually work until 2045. And is there any thought or idea from the Minister in terms of technology choices to facilitate and speed up? The existence of an investigation does not help us at present. In fact, we need the electricity as soon as possible.
i-YSzEZ6ynbkJZBUh7RAptax	Madam President, I would like When I got the confidence to become a Member of Parliament after the 2018 elections, I was also given the task of working in the Committee on Economic Affairs. In the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, we are dealing with energy policy issues, which have become increasingly topical in the last parliamentary term. One of the first questions I focused on was how the electricity system works and what will be needed in the future. I could already say then that in the future we will need more, not less, electricity if we are to reach the climate targets. Madam President, I would like Sweden was one of the countries in Europe that was first electrified. We expanded our electricity grid and have long benefited greatly from the decisions that meant that we could use cheap and almost fossil-free electricity. So water and nuclear power have served us well. What is happening now is no wonder. Sweden needs to maintain existing networks and expand the networks and capacity. It would have had to be done even more, especially since the nuclear power plants in southern Sweden have been closed down. The electricity network is basic infrastructure that I believe most citizens and companies in Sweden expect to continue to be. When the state-owned company Vattenfall chose to take two reactors out of operation, Ringhals 1 and 2, we Christian Democrats made it clear and on a number of occasions that impact assessments should have been carried out on what it would mean in particular for southern Sweden and that one should have looked at the issue of being able to give a ownership directive on having them in operation until other things were in place. With such an assignment, the power grid expansion from north to south had also been given. It has taken an incredibly long time to build the Southwest link, which was planned already in 2005 after the closure of Barsebäck. Now that it has been put into operation, we know that it is also not a solution to the problems we face today, precisely because it takes an incredible amount of time to build. Is it not in these situations extremely urgent to turn over every stone? What is the answer to all the companies that want to establish themselves or work to achieve growth in their companies, especially in southern Sweden? I don't think it's enough at this point to say we're going to investigate a little more. Why did the government not take the warning signals sent seriously?
i-NMkKmwFmmiNm4M555GBm5R	Madam President, I would like Interesting figures are presented here, not least by the interpellier. This House adopted this summer's bill on modern state-of-the-art processes. During the autumn of 2021 we have aimed to halve the permit processes to 2024. It is extremely urgent. I think everyone is aware that we are entering a historically large electrification of Sweden. We are looking forward to green new industrialisation across Sweden. Right now it is very much driven in the north, but we see ahead that it will also happen in Central Sweden and southern Sweden in the future. Then we must have electricity grids that match this. It is important to be able to transport electricity northwards but also southwards. Therefore, Swedish power networks now have three times more money to invest in grid upgrades. They have presented a series of measures to increase network capacity in the short term, i.e. this year, but also in the long term. There is considerably more money than before to speed up and build up the electricity grid. The work with modern condition processes takes place on several fronts. One is the modernisation of work on the processes. A digitalised work process is faster and smarter. Authorities can also work in parallel instead of sequentially to speed up. But I am extremely impatient and in a hurry. I am glad that the interpellier and the honourable Member have too. On this point, we agree. This is going to go faster. I respect the fact that this was decided in autumn 2021 and that work is ongoing with the objective of 2024. But believe me! I and the government would like to see this coming into place much faster. With regard to the concrete issue of ground and air cables, there are several technical reasons why air cables are generally considered more appropriate for the transfer. There are several physical reasons, such as phase displacements and heat dissipation, and that it does not need to be built as powerful structures or rough wires to compensate for difficulties that arise when digging down the cables. There's an investigation going on right now where experts are looking at that. Although I, the interpellant and several others may think that, for example, air cables are generally considered better than ground cables, I have respect for the expertise to look at it and make suggestions. I think we agree on that. That is why I look forward to this work continuing. The Swedish Power Network has initiated a work to review how their processes can be improved when it comes to speed, but also when it comes to monitoring the work in the investigation that is ongoing.
i-Aqkgz4ntezPnT2YYnZ9icv	Madam President, I would like It is interesting to hear from the Minister, who has the same commitment to the issues as myself. My interpellation was about how the government views these issues and what it thinks of in the future. I know what the situation is, that is, there is an investigation going on. But my question was, in fact, how the government views this and what it thinks of the future. I don't get an answer to that. I'm just getting the answer that there's an investigation going on. I mean, maybe we can't passively wait for it. Perhaps we should be forward-looking, just as the Minister is in his speech. We must be forward-looking and say that we need this in order to be able to change, that we need this in order to build new homes and that we need this in order to be an industrial nation with the necessary skills. I think that we would need that forward slope in order to move forward on the issues. There are a number of measures that can be taken and which there is a window to take. You don't have to wait all the time for the investigation. But my question was about how the government views this. The government can clarify how they view the technology choices. If it is the Minister's words here that apply, it sounds pretty good. It can be developed in a fairly clear way that it is the technology choice that is best at the moment, right there, that applies and that it is not other complications that make you have to look at whether it should be ground cables. I think, for example, that we need to look at cost reasons, efficiency and what is best. In fact, it is the industry that knows the most about it. I mean, maybe that's where we're going to land. Maybe it's the industry itself that knows best. Perhaps we should remove the obstacles that exist in order for the industry itself to be able to choose. I also believe that much of the problem of expanding the network is due to the fact that there are other obstacles, i.e. other interests which in one way or another resist this. Perhaps you should make this a national interest so that it is on the same stable basis as other interests. Politics sometimes tends to mean that everything should be national interests, but I think it is of interest to the kingdom that we have electricity that can be delivered to the industries and homes that exist. The Minister also referred to digitalisation. I cannot emphasize enough the possibility that is there. Of course, this also applies to processes in this part. I'm more used to talking about building processes, and in those processes digitalisation is extremely important. I think the two parts can go hand in hand for Sweden to be digitised in a clear and good way. I am still examining the possibility of getting the Minister to give the government answers to the questions I have asked – not that there is an investigation going on. Does it think that the choice of technology to be made needs to be concretised? In what way could it be possible to shorten the processing times so that we can move forward on the issues? These are two of the three questions that I asked and which I think are most important.
i-KSqK9cAsVTF5QmprC1q9wV	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the answer, which was a bit of a non-answer precisely in relation to the questions I asked. One of my cane horses since I became a Member of Parliament has been that Sweden needs to have a planning goal and a goal of delivery security. There also needs to be a designated responsibility for this. Just over three years ago, that is, in the autumn of 2018, I said that we need to plan for at least 200 terawatt hours per year in the future. Then I was almost laughed at by the government parties. The argument I heard at the time was that the electricity was enough, that we exported on an annual basis and that there was no significant increase in electricity demand in the future. Three years later, scenario after scenario has been presented. Almost all parties agree that by 2040 Sweden should aim to double its electricity production to about 300 terawatt hours if climate targets are to be reached. It is therefore a good thing that the government has changed its mind and that the authorities have also become aware of the issue. The electricity grid issue is incredibly important throughout this system. As the Minister mentioned earlier, the Riksdag has put through a proposal for more modern permit processes. The electricity grid is crucial for how we manage electricity supply in the future, but faster electricity grid expansion must be one of the key issues. In this connection, we also need to raise security of supply and have a stated target for it. This is, by the way, an issue that the House put through spring 2019, that is, almost three years ago. But so far we have not seen any result. How is work going in the Government Office to produce answers to what the House decided three years ago?
i-3jpxzDoc6EpTLCWoYcL7HP	Madam President, I would like Let me start with the interpellier's question. Lantmäteriet and the county administrative boards already received, in September 2021, an assignment to the authorities to coordinate their processes and develop new ways of working to shorten lead times. We also intend to present shortly a national electrification strategy where the issues of lead times obviously have a role to play. As many people here have said, we are moving towards a massive increase in the use of electricity. In addition to electricity generation, electricity grid capacity plays a crucial role. We agree on this. From what I understand, the interpeller would like the government to set specific technology choices in advance even before the expertise has finished looking at this. I think I'll have to disappoint the interpellier there. We'll wait for the expertise. But be assured: Our ambition is that the way forward should be fast and that for every opportunity we should have the best solution. However, the best solution is multifaceted, for there are many considerations to be taken into account. The intervener was concerned with financial and technical considerations. There may be environmental considerations and other things. For example, in the case of airborne lines, tree streets may sometimes need to be taken into account. There may be a need for a larger tree-free street. If, instead, the pipes were to be buried, it could possibly mean that one had to blow up and permanently devastate nature. There are therefore climate and environmental considerations that must be taken on such occasions. They may also need to be opposed to each other in order to get the best solution at every opportunity. Let me be so far ahead that I say that we both, and also the entire government, are keen that the network deployment should proceed very quickly. We will move from the management phase of the electricity grids that we have been in for the last 30 years to an expansive phase. I and the government see before us that we are moving towards the perhaps fastest expansion of the electricity grid that Sweden has had in modern times. We're entering an enormous expansive phase. Then it must be quick. On this point, we agree. I would like to return to Camilla Brodin's question because I need to look into how the work is going. I had not prepared this for this interpellation debate.
i-T91AGkPyMf1JxTa5BJBXYg	Madam President, I would like We seem to be touchingly agreed that the use of electricity will increase due to the climate change. The electricity expansion cannot go from zero to 100 in five seconds. I realize that, too. But the expansion should take place in line with the increased attractiveness of electricity use so that we do not incur excessive hump costs. We need to expand at the necessary pace while keeping down the costs for the consumer. This is what I see as a problem, that is to say that we are not getting started because of the state processes. They're taking so long that maybe we don't really know what it's gonna be like. If a permit for an extension takes ten to twelve years, that means that we must be able to see ten to twelve years into the future. It would have been much easier if it were enough to look five or six years ahead of time and be able to expand on what we actually need. It is in this respect that I think it is important to be forward-looking and say: we should manage this in a shorter time. We shall be able to supply the electricity needed for the industry. We will be able to supply electricity so that people can move to their homes and so that we get housing for all people. We must also realise that we do not always make the right decisions the first time, but that we sometimes need to supplement the decisions. As I understood it, the proposal on modern state-of-the-art processes did not include all the suggestions contained in the investigation itself. Perhaps you should go back and see if there are further proposals that need to be added in order to speed things up. That would be a good way to be forward-looking. You don't have to think that everything should be right from the beginning, but you can constantly put things on so that you get this out as soon as possible.
i-Csc3M8FC8BWYqDqYeykXWH	Madam President, I would like I thank Larry Söder for the interpellation. We seem to agree on the ambitions ahead. For the government, I can say that there is no prestige in not constantly doing our utmost and making improvements. If there are elements that need to be improved and that allow us to speed things up further, we are absolutely prepared to move in that direction. Soon we will be presenting an electrification strategy with some seventy measures that will move us in that direction. Hopefully Larry Söder and also other many ways forward in the strategy. It is very rare for network concessions to be rejected. On the other hand, we agree that time needs to be shortened. Nevertheless, I have some respect for the fact that the decision taken last autumn, less than six months ago, may not have had the full effect yet, although I would have liked to have done so. As a former entrepreneur, I am extremely impatient and anxious that things go quickly. But I still have some respect that it may take longer than six months to get this in place. The aim is to halve the permit process by 2024, but I very much hope that we will get to the finish point earlier. I can tell interpellant Larry Söder that he can be calm because at least I – and I have the entire government in my back – will not sit and wait for this to happen. We'll be hunting. I hope we can agree on a lot of things along the way when it comes to how the upgrading of the electricity grids should go faster.
i-QQ2st9yC7vyiLgJEoTkX8A	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me whether the government intends to take steps to balance the high fuel price so that we end up at the same level as comparable countries in Europe. Fuel prices rose a lot in the second half of 2021, which was mainly explained by a higher oil price. As regards the price of HVO, it depends on supply and demand on the world market for both the raw materials used for its production and the fuel itself. Diesel used in agriculture has a fixed tax reduction but is also affected by price increases. It is worth noting that no part of the price increase in the past year is due to increased fuel taxes. The last time an active decision was made to change fuel taxes was when the so-called bnp indexation was paused for 2021 and 2022, which means a lower energy tax. The Government has recently commissioned the Swedish Energy Agency to carry out a control station of the so-called reduction obligation. Within the control station, the Authority shall, inter alia, analyse the reduction levels in relation to the transport sector's climate targets, the costs of the reduction obligation for fuel buyers and the effects on households and industry. The Authority shall, if necessary, propose changes. That assignment shall be reported to the Government Office no later than 15 December 2022.
i-F48XoVJhCtpieN5UTbufoG	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I want to put my finger on the last sentence. A reply shall be presented on 15 December. The question then has to be asked: how many farmers and road hauliers will go bankrupt before there is any change? So today we have the world's highest diesel price. I sat and listened to the debate that was earlier. It was precisely about agriculture and the problems they face with the high costs. I myself come from the haulage industry. I have received numerous calls from hauliers and their drivers about the totally unsustainable situation that exists. If you looked at Aktuellt yesterday you got to see Gunvor and Göran in Ösiktnäs who had to close their farm. They had been farmers their whole lives, but now it was no longer possible. Today, the animal car was there, picking up all the animals and driving them to the slaughterhouse. They laid down their farm. The costs were too high. I couldn't do it anymore. Well, here's what we've got pretty much every day. Farms are closing down. Farmers are closing down. The government says it is setting up an investigation that may present a proposal on 15 December. Two fingers are not crossed to help entrepreneurs in this country who are facing a cost development that is historic. We've never seen anything like it before. You ask yourself, what do you think? We have to change, they say. Well, we're gonna pick up freight from road to rail. If we go out of this house and walk Drottninggatan up, we come to a department store called Åhléns. It has no railway connection. How do you get the goods from the grocery store into the basement and up to the top of that house? They're coming by truck. The prerequisite for the companies in that house to be able to operate is that there are trucks that come there with the goods. You're about to kill that business. You don't even listen to the signals that come from Sweden's Åkeri companies, Transport companies and other industry organisations. I met with the forest contractors about a week ago. A debate article has been written. I'm going to read what's going on in this report.The background to these death attacks against all fuel-dependent companies in the country is about the so-called reduction obligation – where the state gradually forces the fuel companies to increase the amount of fossil-free interference. In January, the lower limit was raised to 30.5 per cent – and in a few years' time it will be up to 66 per cent! ..................................................... We differ in Sweden. The rest of Europe has a target of 14% by 2030. We are just over 2% of Europe's population. But we collectively commit suicide when we cannot compete on equal terms. It's amazing how to handle this situation. M a n does not lift a finger to change the position. It's troubling. I sincerely hope that the Minister will give me a good and straight answer. What are you going to do? This is not going to last any longer.
i-NSsUiSo8eZZr6v2GqcH8XH	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by saying that the government has a very good understanding and is following this situation closely. But listening, following, and looking at the situation do not help. It's not just what we do. We are, of course, keen to act and ensure that people and the whole of Sweden have good opportunities to move forward. Let me take the discussion back to why we have a reduction obligation at all. Climate aspects are often highlighted. These are good aspects. The reduction obligation is an important part of reducing emissions and reaching Sweden's emission targets. But we should also be clear about saying that it is Sweden's opportunity to get rid of the dependence on the oil heikhs in the Middle East and Putin in Russia. It is about that we are not fossil-dependent and can switch to fuels that we can produce ourselves. The reduction obligation means that there is a clear signal to the producers of biofuels. Here there is a market for them to sell so that we can increase production and push down prices. That is one of the main reasons why we are doing this. It is quite important to remember that our children and grandchildren should be happy not just for what we do for the climate. They should also be happy and grateful that we have made sure that Sweden is not dependent on oil c hejker in the Middle East or Putin in Russia. It's pretty important. Apart from that, we have here and now a situation where the price is very high for many, just as the interpellier is at. That's where we've taken information. We're following this. Even before Christmas, the government gave a mission. It's about following up to see what you can do systemically in case the prices run away. Today, the Minister of Finance has confirmed that increasing the distance limits and the level of compensation for the travel allowance is a possibility that is being reviewed. It can make it easier for many people in rural areas and ensure that they can have better opportunities financially. There is also a specific reduction in vehicle tax for cars owned by private individuals in sparsely populated areas. As far as agriculture is concerned, there is a permanent reduction in diesel tax. Although I understand that there are currently high prices, I do not share the view that the government is doing nothing. On the contrary, we are doing a great deal. But we are not prepared to continue on a road where Sweden is dependent for a long time on the oil c heucs and Putin in Russia to improve a temporary situation here and now. We do both. We make ourselves independent in terms of fuel and also ensure that people have better living conditions. We need to be able to keep these two thoughts in our heads at the same time and work on it. I hope that more parties will be able to stand on that line.
i-D2N9eNdbwtWkn4PKgWbw7s	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I have the ability to hold several balls in the air. I also have the ambition that we should achieve environmental objectives. But the difference between me and the government is that I've lived out in the real world. I've been working on these questions pretty much my entire adult life. I see what's about to happen. We run backwards into the future. It's kind of funny that the government says we shouldn't make ourselves dependent on Putin. That's exactly what we're doing. If we look at what is happening out there, we see that mobile workshops, mobile tyre workshops and mobile filling stations are being built. Russian diesel is smuggled in. I was looking at what you'd have to pay for that diesel today. That's six crowns per litre. This is what the cars are driven on that is driving illegally in Sweden. The Swedish riders are being competed out. They have no chance in the world to compete with the diesel price that is. What happens is that the Swedish haulage companies fail. It is not possible to conduct the business. Instead, the goods are transferred on illegal traffic that smuggles in fuel for six gallons. Then the government says: We are thinking about the environment. You can't be anything but upset. Don't you have better control of what's going on? We can look at how our competitor countries are doing. There is the price of somewhere between $1 and $1 (U.S.) and $1 (U.S.). We're at 21, 52. The daily price in Norway this morning was 15.91. How are we supposed to compete when we have a fuel price that shoots out so completely against the prices in our world? You will investigate the consequences of this. I can tell you here and now what the consequences are. I don't need to investigate. We're going to have haulage companies going bankrupt. The skaters aren't out on the road because they think it's so nice to drive. They make sure that we have food in the stores, that there are clothes that we can wear on the body, that we have houses to live in, that there are medicines in the pharmacies and that our industry works. That's what the haulage industry does. And you're about to kill it, just like agriculture. The chairman of LRF in Dalarna says: It is the worst crisis I have experienced. Glanshammars Åkeri in Örebro says: We cannot afford to drive. They can't afford to drive. What are the consequences for other industries? The farmers say that they have had a cost increase of 750 million on an annual basis. And the government will investigate and possibly come up with an answer on December 15th. No one questions protecting the environment. But if you watched TV a week ago, you heard that they were talking about electric trucks for the change. The sale's gone down. The salesman who was in the story said: We will probably sell a car this year. They'll probably sell a car this year! Why? Because there's no financial resources in the haulage industry. What about the conversion? I'd like an answer, please.
i-TfnE6hTJLvaKSHZEK9qWoP	Madam President, I would like I note that in order to get anywhere with what you intend to do, you have to have a real and really workable proposal. I have presented a number of measures that the government intends to take in the short term and which we are looking at. As I explained, the Minister of Finance was out today and confirmed that raising the distance limit for the travel allowance is an option. We are talking about lower taxes on rural vehicles and that, for example, agriculture, which the interpellier mentioned, has lower petrol and diesel prices. But long-term dependence on oil sheiks must be avoided. That's what you have to do. And you have to get away from the addiction to Putin. Then you can't keep saying, but not right now, but next year. Maybe in a year! At some point you have to do this. I note that the interpeller is annoyed that the government is investigating to see what to do. As an entrepreneur, who, after all, has lived most of my professional life in the business world and not in politics, I can agree that investigations can take time. But I have some respect that the result is likely to be much better. If we look at the proposal made by the interpellier's party, we see that there is probably a big blow in the air. It is highly uncertain whether lowering the level of interference during the year will have any effect on the price of the pump at all. The fuel industry buys fuel for a whole year in advance. What you're thinking now has already been paid for last fall. Too hastily lowering the reduction levels in the middle of a year does not guarantee a price reduction for those who are thinking their car today. Then the interpeller wonders why we're investigating this. That's what we're doing so we don't do things that will be a blow to the air. You can talk about this in the media, but when you're in government, you have to do things that can actually have an effect. There I think that I and the interpellier differ, possibly because the interpellier has the possibility of not having to answer for the actions carried out in a rash way without any result. That is why, Madam President, I would like to insist that the government is following the situation closely, listening and acting. We have a clear picture that we should not be dependent on the oil sheiks in the Middle East and on Putin in Russia, but at the same time ensure that the industries in Sweden are doing well through other measures, not least those that we have announced that we are watching today.
i-SChV17shr9yLAQ8v7cBg5h	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I know that there is a large number of hauliers watching this debate. I would be surprised if there were not an invitation to the Government to come out in reality so that he could see on the ground what it is like. The Government will then see what environmental work the Swedish haulage companies are doing. They are expected to carry out transports for our industry so that we can go to the store and buy food and clothing. But when you get rid of the conditions for them, you don't have to investigate. Let's face it, this isn't gonna work. You shouldn't be addicted to oil sheiks. No, but you make yourself dependent on Russian smuggled diesel that the cars run on. We've taken samples of the fuel. It's Russian industrial diesel. It's as far away from NQF diesel as you can get. It destroys the Swedish haulage companies. That is the reality we have, and the government will investigate. You get annoyed. How difficult can it be to absorb what is happening out there, among hauliers, among farmers and, above all, even among private individuals? They don't have an alternative, they have to refuel their car to get to work. They have no alternative, but they have to fill the truck with diesel to transport the food we are going to eat. Show some respect for these people and for the battle they are fighting right now. Show respect!
i-BrsfnSkBUH2eiQqG41XykV	Madam President, I would like I'd love to come visit. I can tell you right now if anyone from the haulage industry is watching this. I am happy to come to visit, talk and find constructive solutions to the future – precisely because I show respect and respect the needs and interests of the haulage industry. I am doing this precisely because the government respects the fact that the haulage industry must be able to compete on good terms. And I mean not only fuel prices, but we must ensure that the illegal hauliers in our country are not able to compete out of the haulage industry. Precisely because of this respect, the government is developing effective measures instead of populist blows in the air that would not change the existence of the haulage industry. precisely because of this respect, the Minister of Finance has today confirmed that he is prepared to look at the travel allowance to see if improvements can be made for rural areas. precisely because of this respect, we have reduced diesel tax on those who work in agriculture. It is precisely because of this respect that there is less tax on the vehicles in rural areas. It is precisely out of respect that one has to be realistic and not come up with placard politics. That's what I call real respect.
i-Hk5ynqEcKKqC7TV3nHhK9Y	Madam President, I would like Johan Hultberg has asked me if I and the government have done any analysis of how many start-ups, investments and jobs have been lost in Sweden due to insecure electricity supply. If not, he wonders whether I am prepared to commission the Energy Authority, or any other appropriate authority, to carry out a survey of the consequences of the electricity crisis with a particular focus on the impact on industry in general and industry in particular. Johan Hultberg has also asked me if I and the government are prepared to review current legislation so that it will be possible to build new nuclear power elsewhere than at Forsmark, Oskarshamn and Ringhals. As Johan Hultberg rightly points out, recent times have been characterised by exceptionally high electricity prices. The main reason for the current situation is the very high prices of natural gas, which, due to the central role of natural gas in European electricity production, also have a major impact on the Swedish electricity price. In order to limit the impact of high electricity prices, the Government has announced its intention to allocate about SEK 7 billion to electricity price compensation for households affected by high electricity prices. The electricity price compensation will be made retroactively for the months of December 2021, January 2022 and February 2022. The proposal meets around 2 million households and applies throughout Sweden. When it comes to the impact of electricity prices on industrial competitiveness, it is obviously unfortunate when traders are affected by changing market conditions. However, it may be worth mentioning that the VAT on electricity is not usually a decisive cost for companies and that the entire cost of electricity is deductible. In addition, electricity prices in Sweden are relatively low with prices on the continent. They have also been in the autumn and winter, and the Swedish wholesale price of electricity is among the lowest in the EU. The nuclear legislation mentioned by Johan Hultberg is contained in the Environmental Code and was developed in 2010 by the alliance government led by Fredrik Reinfeldt. In 2017, the Government appointed a special investigator to review the Nuclear Activities Act, and in 2019 this report presented New Nuclear Technology Act – with clarified responsibilities. The report has been referred to and implemented in some parts. The remaining proposals are now being prepared in the Government Office. Apart from this, no legislative changes are currently foreseen.
i-ES6Td44Ki83Bc6HBZmL7Ji	Madam President, I would like How did Sweden become rich? An important part of the declaration is that we as a country have succeeded in coining our natural resources. We have refined the forest and ore and built a strong industry in a wide range of areas through trade with our surrounding world. Despite our geographical location on the edge of Europe, we have been able to be a competitive industry, largely thanks to a stable electricity supply. Hydropower, later in combination with nuclear power, has given the industry climate-smart electricity at competitive prices – around the clock, year-round, year-by-year. It has built our prosperity. However, Madam President, we are now in a serious situation. Because of an irresponsible energy policy, Sweden no longer has the secure and competitive electricity supply that has been a cornerstone of Sweden's journey from being one of Europe's poorest countries in the early 1800s to actually becoming one of the world's richest. Six of Sweden's former twelve nuclear reactors have been decommissioned. Since 2014, four fully operational nuclear reactors have been shut down prematurely, corresponding to 13% of all Swedish electricity. Now comes the bill for the decommissioning of nuclear power. Now comes the bill for the failed red-green energy policy. The bill comes in the form of redundancies and foregone investments and establishment. It costs jobs and businesses. The bill comes in the form of record high electricity prices for ordinary households. When electricity costs the shirt, the holiday fund or the small buffer in the household economy may be used to pay the electricity bill. The bill also comes in the form of evasive climate emissions and a brake on the extensive climate shift of both our industry and our transport sector, which is essential if we are to achieve our high climate targets. Madam President, I am very concerned about Sweden's electricity supply. We have an electric crisis whose consequences this interpellation is about. I was no less concerned when I heard the Minister for Energy's answer to my interpellation and questions. From the answer, I wonder whether the Government fully understands the seriousness and extent of the current energy crisis. The Government devoted most of its first intervention to commenting on the high electricity prices. The running electricity prices are extremely problematic, but at the same time the crisis is bigger and the problems deeper than that. Prices are the consequence of a lack of electricity supply. They are an expression of the lack of capacity in the electricity grid. They are an expression of insufficient planned electricity generation. Our electrical system has a lack of power. When the wind does not blow and the sun does not shine, electricity simply is not enough. It drives up prices and puts an end to business start-ups. A gloomy picture emerges from the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise's electric barometer. 40 per cent of the business managers who responded to the survey reported that they had problems with electricity supply in their municipality. Unless that figure concerns the Minister for Energy, the figure may be 43 percent. It is the number of people who stated in the survey that they had little or no confidence in the government's energy policy. The government may say that the electricity barometer is just a small survey that should not be overdrawn. I'm inclined to agree with that. We need more sound evidence, and that is exactly what I am asking for in my interpellation. Madam President, I would like I want to identify the consequences of the electricity crisis in general and its consequences for jobs and entrepreneurship in particular. Why does the Minister of Energy say no to that?
i-2NYFmodT8LQKY9u3B42UWY	Madam President, I would like I thank the interpellant for the interpellation. Let me start at the end where the interpellier started. How did Sweden become a rich nation? Yes, electricity supply was absolutely an important part. A large part was also something that the interpellier's party has never been up to: a good equality in this country so that as many as possible have good conditions to contribute to Sweden's growth, and also a technology optimism that does not get stuck in yesterday's nostalgia, but looks at what is happening here and now and how we can improve the situation. These have been crucial elements in building our prosperity. Let's switch now. From the last 30 years having consumed the same amount of energy per year – 140 terawatt hours of electricity per year, Sweden has used the last 30 years – we are now changing to the biggest expansion we are looking at. Over the next 30 years, we expect to consume considerably more energy, especially electricity, than we have done in the past. We do this because the industry, transport and machines will switch from fossil fuels, push them out and start using electricity. It is an important part of the future we are now building. Today we have a secure electricity supply in Sweden. Currently, we have temporarily very high electricity prices, which the interpeller himself says are temporary right now. Despite this temporary electricity price crisis, which exists throughout Europe, Sweden has shown significantly lower prices of electricity than the rest of Europe thanks to responsible energy policy. It's still no fun comfort for the households that have been affected. This is not a solution for those industries that have seen higher electricity prices. That's not what I'm saying. I say: let us be realists and instead of blacking out Sweden's successful position, which has led us to continue to build on this success even in Europe's deepest electricity price crisis. We see how we will build a new electricity system, a total energy system, which will be, as this House has also decided, renewable to 100% by 2040. I know that the interpellete is turning, not least for nuclear power, and I can reassure the interpeller that this House's decision is a goal, not a stop date that prohibits nuclear power thereafter. With regard to the nuclear power plants that have been shut down, there is a misconception that is often raised, namely that it would have been premature for political purposes. I, who have a background in business, can say that there is also a profitability argument. When devices built at the time when the only way to transport music was with cassette tapes and Walkman Walkman is getting to years come, they become expensive to entertain. If, through political decisions, the House or the government had forced operators to keep these power plants, there would have been a risk that the maintenance cost would have been so high that prices for Swedish electricity consumers would have been pushed up permanently, not just in the few months that we have seen in this winter. So let us look at the future. I see before me, and the government looks forward to it, a huge expansion of electricity grid capacity and a power generation that will come quickly into place, provide a lot of electricity and deliver cheap electricity to the electricity consumers.
i-8ySYHki6c5k21xvPTWEQU3	Madam President, I would like The Government confirms what I was concerned about in my first speech, namely that he and the Government do not fully see the breadth, breadth and depth of the crisis we are experiencing. It is much larger than the record high electricity prices we currently have. I don't think they'll be temporary. Unfortunately, I believe that our industry and our households will have to get used to paying a considerably higher electricity bill than they have historically done, because of the fact that the energy policy represented by the Government and represented by his party has made us dependent on European coal power and Russian gas. My interpellation is at least as much about the fact that electricity and its effect are not enough and that companies are therefore unable to establish themselves and that municipalities are losing important jobs and that investments in new industrial production are not made because they are not connected to the network. In Malmö we have seen how Pågen could not bake more loaves because the electricity was not enough. In my own municipality of birth, Uddevalla, an estimated 1,500 jobs have been lost only in recent years due to a lack of electricity supply. Madam President, I would like Uddevalla is unfortunately not unique. The alarm reports of halted industrial investments and foregone business start-ups are coming up close, now combined with reports of notice, closures and shutdowns of industrial production because electricity prices, which have historically been a competitive advantage for Sweden, have now left and made, for example, Angry Klippans Bruk announced personnel during the autumn. The CEO is now alarming and warning that you can actually be forced to shut down. These are just a few examples of the consequences of the electricity crisis. I asked the Minister if the government has done any analysis of how many start-ups, investments and jobs have been lost in Sweden due to the electricity crisis. The government ducked the question, Madam President. The government simply doesn't know. This is bad, one might think, but worse is that the government does not seem to want to find out the answer. You don't want to know. The Government also ducked for the second part of my question, which was whether the Government is prepared to instruct the Energy Authority or any other appropriate authority to carry out a survey of the consequences of the electricity crisis with a particular focus on the impact on industry in general and industry in particular. I think, Madam President, that this would have been an important basis for debates such as the one we have this evening and for important decisions in the future on how to equip our electricity system and manage our energy supply, on what investments are needed in electricity grids and transmission capacity and on how to build a better functioning electricity market. For example, the Moderates believe that it is necessary for us to price not only the production of kilowatt hours in the future, but also the delivery of important system benefits and actually pay for effect. It is one of the reasons why, in the view of the Government, it would be market decisions that are behind the decommissioning of nuclear power. This is, of course, due to the fact that nuclear energy has been subject to penalties while subsidising renewable electricity production and not providing long-term conditions for nuclear power. It is politically motivated decisions that have pushed forward the fact that we have lost six of the previous twelve Swedish nuclear reactors. We would have really needed them now, and we will need more nuclear power in the future.
i-ChyrwpkZrfESrPsmdAES5	Madam President, I would like I note that the government is fully aware of the extent of the electricity situation in Europe – also in Sweden. We fully believe that even during Europe's biggest electricity price crisis, Sweden has among Europe's lowest prices and a secure supply of electricity. We see the extent of this. We are not satisfied with that, but unlike the interpellier's party, we do have a solution to this. In northern Sweden, for example, companies are currently in line to establish themselves because there is good access to electricity. Both electricity generation and capacity are at a good level. We're not happy with that. Swedish power networks have three times more money to speed up the upgrading of electricity grid capacity. This House adopted last autumn a government proposal to shorten processing times for the establishment of new electricity networks through smarter or faster licensing processes. In the near future, we will also present a major electrification strategy with some seventy measures to point the way forward. In southern Sweden there is enormous potential. Today, the whole of Sweden uses 140 terawatt hours of electricity. Only in southern Sweden, and only at sea, there are applications corresponding to 350 terawatt hours. This is about two and a half times what the whole of Sweden consumes, only at sea and only in southern Sweden, from offshore wind power. There is enormous potential for Swedish industry. There is a huge potential for Sweden as a successful nation to maintain and expand its head start towards the rest of the world. I believe, however, that the interpellant and I agree that it does not always blow. Sometimes it doesn't actually blow. But I do not believe, unlike what the interpellier seems to think, that planning and stability is an energy type. They thought so in the 80s, during the time Walkman Walkman was in. Nowadays we know that planning in the electricity system is actually a function of the electricity system. If you combine the wind with, for example, fuel storage, such as hydrogen storage, you get a planning functionality in the system where you can produce hydrogen. When you produce hydrogen you get oxygen, which can be pushed back into the Baltic Sea – this is one of the biggest environmental measures in view of the lack of oxygen in the Baltic Sea. The hydrogen can also be used to produce both heat and electricity. This opportunity to so powerfully improve and supply electricity to Swedish households and industries is extremely important. It is true that today we are subsidising the transmission network for offshore wind power. It's true, and we're proud of it. Similarly, the state fully subsidised the expansion of the transmission network in the nuclear power plants once upon a time, but I have not heard the interpeller complain about this. Of course we did it then, because it was the solution that was the mother then. Now we see another solution that can deliver a lot of electricity to Sweden in a short time. Two weeks ago it was decided that offshore wind power equivalent to two nuclear reactors should be in place outside Sölvesborg within eight years. The tax on nuclear power was introduced in 2000. Two bourgeois governments under Fredrik Reinfeldt did not touch it. It was when Stefan Löfven, in connection with the 2016 budget bill, came to this House that the specific excise duty on nuclear power was abolished.
i-RRU8fFTALCq6c7rkDnWqzL	Madam President, I would like I find it fascinating how pleased the Minister for Energy seems to be at today's situation. It is good that companies can establish themselves in northern Sweden and that there is enough electricity there to be able to build new industry and establish new operations. But, Madam President, me and the Moderates are not content with that. In fact, we think it should be possible to conduct industry and establish new production also in southern Sweden. I think, for example, that the 1,500 jobs that Uddevalla municipality has lost are something very serious. These jobs would certainly have been needed. The unemployment rate in Uddevalla is still too high and should be pushed down. I think it would have been good if the new hybrid ferry that runs between the Norwegian Sandefjord and Strömstad had not only charged in Norway and if there had been enough power also in Sweden to be able to charge it in Strömstad harbour. But if it were to be done today, it would have been dark in Strömstad. Madam President, I would like We need more planned electricity generation. The offshore wind power does not deliver what Sweden desperately needs here and now, namely planned electricity generation. It is not electricity production here and now, on an annual basis, that is Sweden's problem, but it is the lack of top load power. When it's as cold as cold – when the energy demand is greatest – it's not enough. Then, because of the energy policy that the red-greens have brought, we have become dependent on dirty coal and Russian gas. We need more nuclear power, which is why we need to review the legislation. We need to open up so that new nuclear power can be built in more locations and so that we can invest in future nuclear power – the fourth generation with small modular reactors. We need to price power, and we need to speed up licensing processes. All of this we run in the Moderates. We're running the government ahead of us.
i-WVoAB79iR1ZvDaVxD3zcXv	Madam President, I would like The interpellant should not mistake my technology optimism and my concern because I am satisfied, because I am not. I want much more and that it will go much faster. I am anxious that things should go quickly, and I have an optimism as to what technology brings. Unlike the interpellier, we actually have a plan that works. I heard the interpellant talking about right now. Yes, what is the fastest way to get more electricity in Sweden quickly and cheaply? It's not nuclear. Our neighbour Finland tested it. 16 years it took to get a reactor in place – the world's second most expensive building. And then it must be said that the interpellant party, the Moderates, is quite used to such buildings, not least with regard to Karolinska in Stockholm. It generates electricity that is two to three times more expensive than our wind power. I fully agree that it does not always blow. Wind power alone is not planned. But along with system benefits, which we seem to agree on, need to be graduated, and fuel storage will provide a planned energy system. This is precisely what has happened over the years since nuclear power was seen as the only solution, in the 1980s, until now. A planability has been found not only for a type of energy but for an energy system. Nevertheless, I note that there is much that we in the government and the Moderates agree on in terms of energy policy. Perhaps we are not always as much hugger of nuclear power, but overall we agree on large parts of energy policy. I think that Sweden benefits from us taking care of everything we agree on later. I look forward to doing it with the Moderates.
i-V8C6mBL6ZgfHmKt8U35Y6L	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked the Minister for Infrastructure v ilka initiative he intends to take in order for Sweden to have a simple and uniform system with a clear transparency about prices for charging electric vehicles at public charging points. Jens Holm has also asked the Minister for Infrastructure for initiatives he intends to take to ensure that such a system can also be coordinated with charging systems in other countries in the Nordic countries and the rest of Europe, for example in the form of an international roaming system. In addition, Jens Holm has asked the Minister for Infrastructure h from many public charging points he considers necessary by 2025 and 2030 respectively and what measures the Minister intends to take to achieve the necessary number. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. It should be easy to drive an electric car. Access to charging infrastructure shall not be an obstacle to electrification of the fleet of vehicles. It can often be difficult to charge an electric car because of the many different payment solutions used, and it is therefore important that we find solutions that make it easier for electric car users. This is particularly important now that electrification goes faster than we expected. The government has been in dialogue with the industry between 2020 and 2021 on uniform payment solutions to achieve industry-wide solutions and avoid regulation. A first solution was presented by Eon and Vattenfall in June 2021. The government is also developing a national electrification strategy that takes a holistic approach to the conditions in the energy sector to enable increased electrification, including of the transport sector, throughout the country. The preparation of the strategy is now in its final phase. I also agree with Jens Holm on the importance of close cooperation on this issue with other countries in the Nordic countries and in the rest of Europe. The European Commission's proposal for a Regulation on alternative fuel infrastructure, AFIR, includes proposals for uniform payment solutions. Sweden also participates in a collaboration within the Nordic Council of Ministers on uniform payment solutions. The Electrification Commission's action plan states that the number of new charging points that will be needed depends, among other things, on the speed of electrification of the vehicle fleet, the degree of use of each charging point, the proportion of vehicles charged at home or at depot, the scope of the vehicles, the speed at which the vehicles can be charged, the proportion of chargeable vehicles that are chargeable hybrids and the charging effects that charging points can offer. The government has not established a figure on how many charging points will be needed but is closely following the issue on the basis that the roll-out of charging infrastructure should take place at such a rate that it does not become an obstacle to electrification of the transport sector. The uvud part of the charge takes place at home and at the workplace. In January 2021, in order to increase access to home charging for housing in various forms of housing, the Government commissioned the Swedish Energy Agency to propose measures, together with Boverket and Lantmäteriet, to improve access to charging at home. The assignment was presented on 1 November 2021. The proposals are prepared within the Government Office. There are also several different support to apply for installation of charging points, for example in the climate category and through a cat reduction for individuals for the installation of green technology, where the latter allows individuals to make tax deductions for the installation of charging points to electric vehicles. Up to now, the Climate Centre has funded more than 65 000 charging points. To further increase accessibility, SEK 50 million is added for 2022 to support public stations for fast charging electric vehicles along major roads. The government has also recently decided on amendments to the regulation(2007:215) exempting the network concession requirement under the Electricity Act(1997:857) to make the lighting network available for electric car charging.
i-Py2aVV58X87CgEe5DrdDVK	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Energy for the answer to my interpellation. It's supposed to be easy to do the right thing. I think we agree on this, and nothing is more important in the climate transition than that it should be easy for people to do the right thing? But it is not easy to do the right thing when it comes to electric vehicles. Anyone who today wants to charge their electric car or hybrid on a public charging station must be prepared to bring a variety of flash washers, to have downloaded different apps and registered to sync with different payment systems and so on. It is simply very complicated, and it is unpredictable for the electric motorist to charge on a public charging station. It is not like when you fill the car with a fossil fuel, that you know that it costs about 20 bucks the liter and that it can distinguish some bean between different sandwiches. But when it comes to public charging stations, the price may differ by several hundred percent between different charging points. There is simply a lot of charging hassle, a lot that is difficult and very much uncertainty for those who want to do the right thing as an electric motorist. I have discussed this a number of times with the government, and the government's representatives have been fairly agreed that we need to overcome the charging problem. In September 2020, I stood in this speaker's chair and debated with the then energy minister Anders Ygeman. He then promised, in September 2020, that within six months we would have a simple and uniform payment system for the public charging stations in Sweden. I followed up that question in April of the following year, i.e. 2021, and then it was obvious that from Anders Ygeman there would be no proposal on how to make it easy for electric motorists to charge at public charging stations. We still do not have a uniform payment system for public charging stations. I think there is a political responsibility to demand here. We just heard from the Minister for Energy that we have gone in with large government subsidies to finance the public charging stations. No less than 65 000 charging poles have been set up with public funds. Has the government made any counter-claims for usability and that it should not be allowed to set the price in any way? No, you haven't done that, but it's a very sprawling and unpredictable system. Madam President, I would like I had a great hope for the report Electric Transport on the way from the Government's Energy Commission. It is precisely part of how we are to roll out the electrification of the vehicle fleet in Sweden. But there is not a single concrete proposal here on how to make it easier to charge at public charging stations. Therefore, I have to ask the Minister: does the Minister not think that the government has any responsibility for the usability, simplicity, predictability and transparency of public charging stations? If the Minister thinks it has, I wonder: when will the Minister present a concrete uniform national system to activate the public charging stations? It cannot be that the Minister thinks that the proposal put forward by Eon and Vattenfall is a comprehensive, good and simple national system to be used at the public charging stations. I think the government is aiming higher than that. At least I hope so.
i-QMaM8crVZssf8wGmcce9pz	Madam President, I would like Thank you, interpellant, for good questions and fellow mail! The development of payment solutions is very rapid. As the interpellant mentioned, a few years ago it was physical trays and various cards that applied in all places. Now almost all operators have switched to some kind of app solution. Nevertheless, different apps are to be downloaded and used. Already there are a number of roaming options that work for these apps. In the future, it is likely to become more common for the payment to be handled directly when a vehicle connects to the charging point without the user having to do anything special. It is the number of the vehicle directly registered at the charging point. However, if the government comes to the House with a proposal and points out with all its hands how it should be, there is a great risk that technological developments have already found another solution. If we had done this in the past, there would have been a risk that we would have locked the market in a flash option. Now we see, instead, that we are moving towards a system where we will probably soon have cars registered automatically and then drive on. We share the ambition of the simplicity of this – I would really like to emphasise that we do. But there is an intellectual sense in waiting a little bit and seeing how this market develops and how we can find a common good solution. Having said that, this market should not be completely free to do as it wishes, but the guideline must be that it should move towards greater uniformity. I will also say that the business model is not completely trivial and simple either. The charging points are used differently depending on the city in which they are located and depending on where they are. Sometimes the charging points are also used as parking spaces. It is not easy to start separating how long you get to stand there and how much of the price you pay is parking fee and how much is about buying the electricity itself. In some places you cannot stand longer than during the time that an active charge is going on. All of this makes it a rather complex system. Again, I do not want to say that there is in any way no political will for us to move towards uniformity. However, I would like to point out that, when the market is as fresh as it is and when solutions are still being developed, we must have some respect for the fact that this must be designed so that we can land in something that will be good. There is a risk that we will regulate in advance a situation that then turns out to be a passé. It may be that you do not know how to handle parking spaces that are also charging places, for example, or that you want to leave the washers or apps and move to an on-board registration. At the same time, new demands come from the EU. Last year, in July, the Commission presented proposals for the development of infrastructure for alternative modes of transport. It proposes, among other things, that the operator of a public charging point should ensure that charging can take place on a single occasion without the need to enter into any major contract over a longer period of time. This in itself would point out that we are once again moving towards the situation where cars are automatically registered. The charge price shall be clear, reasonable, transparent, comparable and non-discriminatory. The government welcomes the fact that the Commission has put forward this proposal aimed at facilitating. Before we point with the whole hand and say what the solution should look like, we need to work in that direction to get on the right side.
i-AUn5Gu2hc5efYuZJ1YEvXA	Madam President, I would like I think the problem of charging is part of something bigger. I think we also hear that in the Minister's reply to me. The Minister talks about this being a new market and a little understanding of it. Perhaps that is the problem: that there has been such a one-sided focus on building a market for payment solutions for electric cars. When I talk to the industry, everyone agrees that there is not much market out there. There is not much money to be gained by selling a few kilowatts to someone who buys a lunch at a gas station and who can charge for 20 minutes or so. This is not a big market. Madam President, I would like The optimal would probably have been if we had seen the charging infrastructure as part of the ordinary state infrastructure and the Swedish Transport Administration had been commissioned to expand the charging infrastructure along the state roads. It had solved a large part of the problem. We also heard in the Minister's reply that the government now has to add 50 million extra, to be channelled through the Finnish Transport Agency, to cover up the white spots on the charging map, where the market simply does not want to expand. But now we have the system that we have, and you have to fix it according to location. I also believe that we are moving towards a future where it is an automatic sensing of the car. When we drive on Essingeleden, no one thinks that there is a congestion tax – it just happens. It goes without saying that this is where we have to end up. But what is a bit frustrating, Madam President, is that I do not really think that the government is taking on its responsibilities in this matter. As I said: A year and a half ago, Anders Ygeman stood in this speaker's chair and promised that we would have a uniform, simple and understandable activation system for the public charging stations. We never did. Now we're hearing that there's been some business talks going on. What does the minister say at those industry talks? What counter-requirements does the Minister place on the industry? Are there really any such conversations going on? When, for example, was the last industry conversation, where the usability of public charging stations was discussed? We also see, as I said, that it is part of something larger. The government is making contributions to everyone who is going to set up charging poles. Last week Swedish Radio reported on the great injustice that exists when it comes to setting up charging poles at home. In a municipality like Danderyd you have been able to set up more charging poles than you have done in the entire county of Västernorrland, although there are seven times as many in Västernorrland as it lives in Danderyd. So there does not seem to be much interest from the government in directing the payments of these contributions generally and fairly across the country. I sometimes think about one thing when I'm in Norrland, for example when I go to the hospital or the university in Umeå. What do you see in the parking spaces? Well, you see engine heater sockets. Every parking lot has an engine heater outlet. Actually, it doesn't have to be harder than that. Okay, there must be a fuse of a little more than six amperes in the socket. But do we need to build up complex payment systems that still do not go around for either the state or the committed stakeholders who set up charging poles? There is a great deal of commitment, and it is not the fault of stakeholders. But can we make it a little easier, Khashayar Farmanbar? What's the government doing?
i-WJFKkDkbztQVu7kLHQsoJ5	Madam President, I would like I and the interpellant agree that the market does not always succeed. We can fully agree on that. We also fully agree that the system must be general and fair. I listed a number of points for what general and justice means. There should be no need to conclude longer contracts, the price should be clear and reasonable and it should be transparent, comparable and non-discriminatory. These are guidelines to be followed by all those who act, and we welcome the initiative of the Commission. There we also see an opportunity for a cross-border solution that also includes the other EU countries. Having said that, it is not generally and fairly in my world and in the world of government that we necessarily plan the economy and the market in more detail. Soon we will present an electrification strategy where charging is an important part of the whole. This is an opportunity for our entire transport sector, which is one of the major sectors in need of electrification, to move forward. I was asked what happens at the round table. Then I'll tell you that today I've been to this job almost in the day two months. Nevertheless, there have been wise, smart and driven representatives before me on this job. During the first month of this year, there has not yet been a conversation, but I know that at the roundtables held in 2020 and 2021, they talked about how to facilitate just uniform and simple payment solutions, how to make it the first and important step for the industry and how to design a solution. Having said that, the government has not indicated a certain solution, but we have gone back to the functions. I listed a number of functions that we want in this system: it should be transparency, it should be comparable and non-discriminatory and the price of charging should be clear.
i-LJaSnTThCzkvDjTb6UzgzN	Madam President, I would like That the market does not always succeed I think was tonight's understatement! Unfortunately, it happens quite often that we see the result of market failures. This is not just a market failure but some kind of hybrid that is a bit difficult to grasp. Clearly, the government has entered several billions of dollars into this system. The construction of 65 000 public charging points has been financed, and I think it is perfectly reasonable to make some kind of counter-claim. I do not think it is appropriate for us to draw up a law on which the Minister was concerned and which he did not want to do. It can be a little too rigid solution, and it also takes a long time. Nevertheless, the government must be able to impose some kind of counterclaim on the money that is being paid out, and I think that usability and transparency are very important. It should be easy to use these systems, and there should be no price difference of hundreds of percent. The minister listed a number of criteria for how this public charging system should work, and I think that sounded good. My specific question is: is the Minister going to include these criteria in the benefit system? Are you planning to change the climate category, which is the largest source of payments for charging poles? Do you intend to impose backlogs on payments for the financing of charging infrastructure? I also wonder when the next industry meeting will take place. What will the Minister say to the industry? What reports will he collect so that we can find out how it is going to be possible to get a simple and uniform payment system for the public charging stations? It's necessary now. It cannot wait for any EU regulation to come into force in five years' time. It's too long.
i-Cxk4Y2ohBgPoHd4jyefr9q	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm and I share the ambition that this should be done quickly. The fact that the market has not fully succeeded would not be tantamount to a complete failure of the market. I certainly would not say that Sweden has failed electrification or that we have failed with the charging poles. There are a lot of charging poles out there, but of course more are needed. There is also a need for a better distribution across Sweden. Jens Holm looked at the requirements for the charging poles set up with state aid. Indeed, the biggest support goes through the climate category. There are certain requirements for technical standards and that the poles should be prepared for uniform measurement and billing. A key word that can be useful to know is that they should be prepared for uniform measurement and debiting. The reason why there have been requirements for preparation and not other requirements has to do with the technical development of vehicles and the service life of the charging poles. This could simply lead to the charging poles being at risk of being equipped with expensive technology that vehicles are not yet able to handle, and that cost in itself could be passed on to the price of those charging the car. There is, of course, reason to review this over time, but so far the assessment has been that it is too early to go in with that regulation before the technology has really sat down. The next industry meeting I must ask to return to Jens Holm. But be so sure that both Jens Holm and I share the ambition that this should go quickly and that we should not have to wait too long for this.
i-MS9rbgrzxpwTFya2aSeGcw	Madam President, I would like Johan Hultberg has asked me if I am prepared to take the initiative to investigate whether it would be possible to be resident and taxable in more than one municipality and when I and the government will have the municipal financial compensation system investigated in accordance with Parliament's announcement. Heavy fluctuations in the number of people living and staying in the municipality, as it is for popular holiday municipalities, present challenges. However, as the interpellier points out, there would be potential problems with the introduction of a system where people pay municipal tax in several municipalities. There is no work going on within the Government Office to review the rules on the municipality of residence, i.e. to which municipality a person should pay municipal income tax. However, I would like to highlight a couple of factors that are relevant when we discuss the economic conditions for municipalities with many semi-annual residences. In 2011, the division of responsibilities between the municipality of residence and the municipality of residence was clarified in the Social Services Act and the Act on Support and Service to Certain Disabled Persons, LSS. This moved the primary responsibility for the individual's support and assistance under the Social Services Act and LSS from the stay to the municipality of residence, even when visiting, for example, a free-time residence in another municipality. Thus, the municipality of residence was liable for compensation for the n enforcement which the municipality of residence assists. In an evaluation carried out in 2014, the National Board of Health and Welfare considered that the new rules on the division of responsibilities between municipalities in the event of temporary stay in a holiday home, for example, were clear and, above all, more fair than before, when the whole responsibility was in the municipality of residence, and that the dialogue between municipalities has improved. Tax revenues and general government grants account for good 80 per cent of municipal income. In addition to these revenues, municipalities have other revenues, for example from tariffs and fees, as well as from the municipal property fee. In this context, the property fee constitutes a smaller revenue item, a total of SEK 19 billion, which corresponds to approximately 3 per cent of the municipal income. The income from the property fee is almost twice as high for the visitor industry municipalities as for the average of municipalities, which is due not least to increased rates for free-time residences. There are therefore also positive municipal economic effects of being a tourist municipality. A fair and accurate municipal economic levelling system is a fundamental element for municipalities and regions with different conditions to have good and equal economic conditions. The system needs to be developed in line with the development of society. Changes in cost compensation came into force in 2020, which meant that the system took greater account of socio-economic factors and a sparse structure. The changes meant that the economic conditions for municipalities were more equal. However, as the Riksdag points out in its announcement, it was a long time ago that the equalisation system as a whole was reviewed. The Government considers it important that the system of equalisation be reviewed with some regularity and intends to return to Parliament with regard to the announcement.
i-4fvo56YRupaHkj5Kt88D87	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for the answer to my interpellation. In my constituency, Fyrbodal, the tourism industry is a real basic industry, one might say. Especially the smaller municipalities along the Bohus coast live on visitors and on tourism. In particular, the many semi-annual residences are important for municipalities, local businesses and the local economy. They create the basis for a large number of companies, businesses and services that would hardly have been able to do so. Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that there are positive upsides to having many interim residents in one municipality. But this interaction is also about the fact that there are significant challenges, not least economic ones, for municipalities that have many interim residents in relation to the permanent population. It is challenging for municipalities with a very large proportion of interim residents to dimension public services, public infrastructure and municipal services. Much of the costs are certainly covered, as was the case with the Government, by tariffs, but this is far from all. In practice, municipalities with many visitors during the season and with many semi-annual residents are forced to oversize, for example, roads, infrastructure and leisure facilities and adapt them to a population that is temporarily, usually for a short period of the year, skyrocketing. Let me mention my own municipality of residence, Tanum. We have a permanent population of about 13 000 inhabitants. In the summertime, we are suddenly well over 50,000. It is clear that it poses significant challenges for the municipality to dimension everything from sanitation to infrastructure. The bill for the over-dimension required lands on the 13 000 people who are registered in the municipality and subject to tax in the municipality. The income of the many visitors largely lands outside the municipality. It is the state that collects VAT revenue, and the many seasonal workers who work in the coastal municipalities usually live elsewhere. They are registered in another municipality and are therefore taxed there. This is a challenge. We also see a development so that semi-annual housing becomes increasingly part-yearly housing. They used to talk about summer guests who came to their cottages and were there for a few weeks during the summer. Today, it is not uncommon for those who live almost as much in their holiday home as in their apartment in the city – as is often the case. This creates a strange situation. In practice, a person shares his or her time fairly equally between two municipalities but pays tax only to one of them. This is the background to why I have raised motions in the Riksdag to investigate the possibility of being a resident and thus being taxable in two municipalities. That exercise, like other exercises on the same theme, has been rejected over the years. I understand that because it is complicated what such a system would look like in practice. But then I think that the option should be to look at the possibility of screwing this into the cost equalisation system. I would like to repeat my question to the Minister for Civil Affairs. When should the inquiry requested by the Riksdag be filled? I would also like to highlight the issue of home care for semi-annual residents and other contributions under the LSS, which the Government raised. The compensation for enforcement shall be paid according to the level of compensation applied by the municipality of residence. That's the rule of the day. What does the Minister think is the practical effect of this principle?
i-6PmjLLft6CCpaveFTx4Mzb	Madam President, I would like I thank the interpellant for the very important interpellation. Several municipalities are struggling with the issue of interim housing. Several municipalities share the challenge. In this context, it is acceptable to state in particular that the economic situation of tourist municipalities has benefited from a couple of regulatory changes in the 21st century. Their income from the municipal property fee exceeds by far the average municipality's while the municipality of residence's liability for the care of the elderly in another municipality has also been clarified, which has led to reduced costs for holiday guests who are registered in another municipality. Although it is as the Member of Parliament describes it, namely that some municipalities have to bear costs for people who do not pay taxes in the municipality of residence, it is not that they are completely without income or are completely disadvantaged by this. Let's look at Tanum's municipality as an example. Tanum is among the 15 municipalities in Sweden that receive the most income from the property fee. Tanum ends up in a total of five places in Sweden with SEK 3,690 per inhabitant in 2020, which corresponds to approximately 1.71 per cent of the tax rate. It may also be worth adding that the changes in cost compensation introduced in 2020 meant that the MP's own municipality of residence received an additional contribution of SEK 948 per inhabitant in 2020. I stated in my opening statement that the Government intends to return to Parliament with regard to the announcement of the cost compensation and the compensation system as a whole.
i-2j6Vuo541zbN86gNoR66Tc	Madam President, I would like Let me return to the issue of home help to semi-annual housing. This may also involve other interventions according to LSS, but home care or security alarms are common in the interim home. It was indeed a welcome and important change that was made in 2011 when it was clarified that cost liability cannot, of course, only be placed on the municipality of stay, but the reasonable thing is that it is the municipality of residence, which has the tax revenue, where the individual pays a fee for home care, which has a cost liability. Finally, in my first speech, I asked what the Government believes the practical consequences of the principle that compensation for enforcement should be paid according to the level of compensation applied by the municipality of residence. I did not get an answer to the question, but I am happy to give an answer to the Government. The consequence is that in many cases the municipality of stay simply does not receive the cost recovery for the actions that need to be carried out. To do home care during the holiday period for quite suddenly a lot more care recipients is a great challenge. The regular staff must have a holiday, and at the same time the need for care measures in the municipality increases. At the same time, there are plenty of jobs in the municipality during this period. Let me look at my neighboring municipality of Sotenäs with only 9 000 inhabitants. That municipality has had enforcement on home care services in recent years corresponding to 8 full-time positions. It should be made in relation to that municipality's regular staffing with 60 nurses. If we scale it up to Stockholm standards, 800 extra full-time jobs would be needed. It is a huge challenge in practical terms for the municipality, but it also involves significant costs for the municipality. It has to pay additional compensation to its regular staff in order for it to postpone its holiday and to bring in hire staff to cope with the manning. It drives up costs while, unfortunately, reducing the quality of municipal care, as more temporary staff are required and may not be able to maintain the same staffing as before. I really think that there is reason to question the principle. Is it really the cost of the municipality of residence that should apply? Is it not more reasonable for the municipality of residence to pay for the actual cost? It would have been a step that could have been taken to create a fairer economic environment for municipalities of residence. Then I guess I'll have to repeat my question about when the investigation comes. When an almost unanimous parliament issued an announcement in 2020 and the government's own party Social Democrats agreed that it was urgent to make this comprehensive investigation of the cost compensation system, I think it is important that it also comes into place. I think it is very possible that it is a more accessible way to adjust the cost compensation system than to look at the possibility of opening up to population accounts in several municipalities. I am interested in the solution, that this will have a solution, not exactly what it looks like. But one important step would be for this investigation to be set up.
i-W5hKy9k7SejLaqjHeDGvyZ	Madam President, I would like I thank Johan Hultberg for his speech. As far as home care and compensation are concerned, it is true that no system is perfect. As in all systems, we need to evaluate and see if it works well. If it doesn't, we need to screw it up. That's what you have to do with all the systems. The compensation of municipalities in the cost equalisation system and in other economic systems is not a simple matter to deal with either. If you screw in one place, things happen at the other end. But, as I said, development should always be monitored and evaluated. I agree with the honourable Member's view that there is a recurring need to review the municipal economic equalisation system. In the light of what the honourable Member highlights in today's interpellation, it is also worth pointing out that certain things today are not part of the equalisation system. One such thing is the property tax, which we have already discussed, where the municipalities actually retain the entire revenue. Similarly, it is with, for example, income from land sales, which has also increased in municipalities that are popular to visit. It is worth mentioning in the debate on interim housing. As the Member of Parliament is aware, it is also the case that matters and investigations should be prepared in the usual way in the Government Office. We will of course look at the announcement and prepare it in the usual way, and we will return to the Riksdag when it is up to date.
i-A63UzZaYw82DLqhRu8fPsA	Madam President, I would like I have been a Member of Parliament long enough to know that the mills of bureaucracy are slow and that it may take time to prepare various matters. However, I believe that from the time the Parliament made its decision on the 2020 announcement, it would have been able to complete the investigation directives and set up an investigation. I do not think that would have had to be stressed out in the department if I were to put it that way, Madam President. When it comes to the issues raised by the Government about the benefits for holiday municipalities or municipalities with many semi-annual residences, this is largely correct. At the same time, one must be aware that municipalities such as my municipality of residence Tanum – I take it again as an example – and the neighbouring municipality Sotenäs are municipalities where the semi-annual residences are probably more than the full-year residences. This creates major challenges for municipalities. It also creates other challenges – the high assessment values, for example. They make it expensive for people to buy a dwelling if they want to live in the municipality. We have prices that are more similar to those here in the capital, but unfortunately the wages are not quite in line with them here in Stockholm. It is also a challenge for municipalities to attract and retain residents who can be stable residents and pay taxes. Precisely that you should be registered and pay taxes is, as I said, the basis for the municipal economy. As the Government said in its reply, 80 per cent of municipal income comes from taxes, general state subsidies and tax revenues. This is why it is so important to look at the municipal levelling system – if you do not choose to look at the possibility of being registered in several municipalities.
i-MGJsmMY8e5Pbdk6uMCmUDY	Madam President, I would like I thank Johan Hultberg for his speech. In conclusion, I would like to say that it is important that we highlight the finances of municipalities and debate the economic conditions for both municipalities and regions, and although perhaps I and the Member of Parliament do not fully agree on everything in today's debate, I nevertheless think it is good that Johan Hultberg has highlighted these issues in his interpellation. As I said, there is no work going on in the Government Office to look at just double censuses and tax liability. On the other hand, the Government sees a need to review the municipal economic compensation system with some regularity. As I said, we intend to return to Parliament with more detailed information on the announcement. The last thing I want to say is that, for me as a social democrat, it is important to safeguard and ensure good welfare of high quality throughout the country. Then it is important that we also have a distribution of financial resources that reflects the needs and conditions around Sweden. It also provides a good basis for taking back control of welfare, turning on every stone to break segregation and contributing to a green transition that provides more jobs.
