i-TzQCKNwWNQnR9TYQz4hncf	Madam President, I would like Amineh Kakabaverh has asked me whether the government will come up with proposals to ban visible religious symbols for children in preschool and school. Let me begin by saying that it is totally unacceptable for preschool staff to consider controlling and forcing children to wear a veil. Children and students should be given the opportunity to shape their own beliefs about religion or other beliefs. According to the Education Act(2020:800), education must convey and anchor respect for human rights and the fundamental democratic values on which Swedish society is founded. According to the curricula, schools and preschools should actively and consciously promote pupils' equal rights and opportunities, regardless of gender. This together forms the basis for the Swedish school system. Freedom of religion is constitutionally protected in the form of government, and children and students should therefore be able to express their beliefs as well as refrain from participating in secular elements of education. Participation in secular elements is also regulated in the first chapter of the Education Act. The right to freedom of religion is also protected by the European Convention and the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which applies as Swedish law. The child's right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion shall be respected. At the same time, children have the right to be protected against all forms of violence and exploitation, even when cared for by their parents. Freedom of religion can never be used as a reason for exerting oppression and violence against a child. It also follows from the Convention on the Rights of the Child that the child should be given the opportunity to express his or her views on religious issues. The views of the child shall be taken into account in relation to the age and maturity of the child. It should also mention the importance of safeguarding freedom of expression, one of the cornerstones of democracy. Therefore, I do not believe that a ban on religious symbols or dress in school or preschool is the right way to go. With this said about the individual's rights and freedoms, the government wants to increase the control of secular elements in the school system and therefore left in March 2022 the bill Clearer demands for independent preschools, schools and recreation centres with a confessional focus. The proposal includes, among other things, proposals for amendments to the School Act that define relevant concepts such as secular elements and secular orientation, in order to clarify the concepts. The proposals safeguard and clarify the right of children and pupils to refrain from religious practice in preschool, school and recreation centres as well as their right to exercise their beliefs. Let me also make it clear that domestic violence and oppression and its various forms of expression that violate the freedom of the individual are serious social problems that should not occur in preschool and school. The Government has therefore commissioned the Swedish National Agency for Education to provide school staff with expertise to promote gender equality and combat honour-related violence and repression. The Swedish National Agency for Education has also produced material to support the school's work with honor-related violence based on the revised curricula that will be applied in autumn 2022. In February 2022, the Swedish National Agency for Education also presented a government commission on strengthened systematic work against honour-related violence and oppression within the school system, including preschool. I am convinced that the improvements we are now proposing in the regulatory framework are an important step towards making it easier for students to refrain from religious influence while maintaining their right to exercise their beliefs.
i-MyHSYENbvYUARuxfmpEUxP	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of School, for your answer! But it is really a statement of something quite different from the question itself. I meet every day in the business Neither whore nor hive, and as Amineh with her own experiences, young girls of school age but also older women who are forced to wear the veil. One of them is Jasmine, who participated a couple of weeks ago in Hederspodden, where she told us that she was seven years old when she came to Sweden together with her family from Iraq. However, the mother does not wear a veil in Iraq, but here in a Stockholm suburb she wears it because her husband and his family want it. Eventually, Jasmine is affected hard to wear a veil. At the age of nine, a giant ceremony is held. When the girl wears a veil, you have this ceremony, and she can't say no. This means that she suddenly comes to school as a completely different person. This shapes the life of Jasmines and her sisters until they are 30 years old. Now that she's 30 years old, she's taken off her veil, but everyone's disassociated from her. This is not voluntary, and it is not religious practice. This is not a voluntary matter, as it is claimed in the fine words here, in our laws and in the Convention on the Rights of the Child – unfortunately. I've worn a veil. I did it until I was 13 years old. You have your own family, your surroundings, laws, the mosque and the area. The description is exactly the same for immigrant women and immigrant girls – we are talking about girls – in school and preschool. Why should international conventions apply only to Sweden? France is an EU country, and they should have the same responsibility for the European Convention on Human Rights. But France has done this, and they have not been labeled for racism or Islamophobia. Rather, after a few years there have been some studies showing that it has benefited integration and that girls' confidence has increased, because if you dare to be in school and preschool and swim in school without veils and without extra clothes you can also be the person you are outside of school. I mean, we can do this, can't we? We cannot leave this issue to individual school leaders or staff in order for them to take a stand. Children are faithful to their families, and school staff are also very keen to have a good relationship with their parents. On the one hand, we argue that the school law should apply, that changes are now taking place in the curricula and that we should fight against honorary oppression, but on the other hand we allow religious schools to reprimand and say that they have other laws to take into account. Does the School Act apply to equality, does everyone's equal value apply to all women and children in Sweden or not? Unfortunately, my answer is no, it does not apply to the religious, no matter who they are. My question is: why should we not be clear?
i-UmY8MD2oeUUFpN2zBdM6wr	Madam President, I would like I agree with Amineh Kakabaveh on the problem and on the fact that the culture of the home can be an honour-related oppression. There could be violence. There could be a lot of things there. What I think about that is important is that we can sometimes think that there is a kind of in-house right to run schools in Sweden and to influence others when running schools and that in this way you can use tax funds to influence and so on. These are two similar types of problems, but in two different areas. I find it equally reprehensible that it exists in both areas. What I was going to limit myself to today is mainly about what is in school. Children and students should not be forced to wear veils against their will in preschool or school, but girls and women should decide for themselves what they are wearing. I am very aware, as Amineh Kakabaveh pointed out here, that we are taking the culture with us from home. Controlling and limiting children's and pupils' choice of clothing can be an expression of honour-related violence and oppression. That is why we are strengthening the demands on school leaders for how this is applied. We clarify the freedoms you should have, and we also introduce in the curriculum several areas that are about having an in-depth discussion in each classroom with the students and that there are resources and knowledge in the school around these areas. School is a very important part of the lives of students and children, and preschool as well. It is therefore important that the school pays attention to whether it exists at home and that there is knowledge and that the school can offer perspectives on the fundamental rights and freedoms of all children and pupils. It is ultimately a matter of choosing yourself, thinking for yourself and expressing yourself. The position we have taken now is that there are rights to be yourself and to express your convictions, but you should never be forced into anything. Therefore, it is important that we look at the opportunities available to conduct, for example, a school where one has a religious orientation that makes it virtually impossible not to participate in the religious expressions that exist. This is where we need to think. Finally, it is tax money that is used, it is the school that everyone has to go to and it is the guardians who choose school for their children. Here it is important that we keep the school clean of such influences that are not permitted.
i-EmxJWNKk4rmGczXGAY8tWq	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the clarification! It is clear that the responsibility lies with us politicians, decision-makers and authorities to protect and save children. But it is also, in fact, a human right not to practice a religion, and it should be self-evident in secular, feminist Sweden and for all parties, almost, who claim the same thing. But at the same time we say that no matter how good laws we have today against honorary oppression, something quite different really applies. Every day I meet people who tell me. When I was on my way here, two girls called-- they knew I was going to debate this-- which is 18 and 22 years old, and they said: Amineh, the only one who dares raise his voice is you. Why don't others dare? Why do we leave this issue to xenophobia or to religious leaders and moral police in the suburbs? I know a mother who moved from Sörmland to a suburb here in Stockholm and whose daughters do not wear a veil. Everyone else does. They get pinched and you ask why, and you come and knock on her door and ask why her girls come to school without a veil. Crying, she says: Amineh, what am I supposed to do as a single woman who works in health care to move out of the area? I'm saying no, I don't want anyone moving out of any neighborhood. I want us to have laws and rules that also apply to people from other parts of the world, regardless of religion or background. This is also about gender. This does not apply to men, it does not apply to Orthodox, Muslim or Christian men, but only to women and girls. Are we on the barricades for their rights? That's not true. The bodies and hair of the floccups are sexualized from childhood. They say, "You're unclean. I've heard that. I was called for when I refused to veil, for example. You are a bad girl, and according to laws in many countries such as Saudi Arabia, Iran, Afghanistan and Qatar you create disorder in society if you do so, because it is believed that when the girls show their hairs, men can get excited. It's about the view of men, of women, of society and of children – it's disgusting things that lie behind the ethics and morals behind these symbols. That is why I believe that we must take this seriously. I am contacted during the Ramadan by many of my friends who are school counselors and other things, and they say that the children who are six seven years old fast and cannot concentrate. They ask: What are you doing, Amineh? Then I say that via interpellations I try to tell you about this. In their own countries, they do not have these rules for young children. Nevertheless, Turkey is a Muslim country, but in law they actually protect children under the age of 18. In the feminist and secular Sweden I want to protect the children. I want them to be able to veil themselves on the way to school, but then, when they come to school and preschool, they should be able to lock their religious signs in a cupboard and then put them back on when they go home. Can't we stand for it? Can't we stand for these girls to make their own choice?
i-9iKVQr8n9HUQJQQYDFeh4z	Madam President, I would like I agree with Amineh Kakabaveh that this is a difficult and complex problem. Sometimes in the Social Democrats we talk about taking back democratic control, and when we talk about this, it is actually about taking back school as a platform from people who think they have a human right to pursue school with a specific purpose. The aim may be to influence religiously, to take cultural insight or belief with it and to confuse it with the curriculum and to choose and choose and do so with our tax resources. Others practice it because they want to make money. Then they may not want girls who have some length on their skirts, and then there are other expressions. We in Sweden have to push the idea that school is sometimes a stronger right than to express one's religious feeling and so on. I think we have a problem in Sweden because we do not have democratic control of the school. It should be clear what the purpose of the school is. Finally: In Swedish school you should start in preschool and school. You're supposed to be a young adult and be able to get your first job with a psyche. If you are going to have a psyche and be a young person who has tried his own thoughts, understands the rights and opportunities of democracy, has the opportunity to also be a religious individual, if you wish, it is important that we uphold the right not to be influenced but also the right to be able to express things. But of course it should be about age and maturity, and you should never be subject to influence. Therefore, it is important that we have a curriculum that raises the aspects that it means being human, being a believer, perhaps being religious or being nonreligious. What is the place in society of religion and other cultural expressions? And what place does this not have in society? What is acceptable and not acceptable? This must be discussed so that all children develop a sense for themselves, their own life and their own decisions. It is therefore important to talk about sexuality, consent and relationships during sex and cohabitation education at school. Relationships also have to do with other things, such as the relationship to oneself, their own culture and their own sexual orientation. However, I also think it is important that there is room for personal expression, some of which may be religious. But here it is important that we have staff who can listen in and that there is a social service that can go in when there is illegal influence. I also think it is very important that there is a good dialogue between the school and everyone who has children in school about what the school stands for, what Sweden stands for, what we do not want to see in Swedish school and what we might not want to see outside the school. I think we should dare to say that and stand up for it. I am therefore very pleased that Amineh Kakabaveh has asked me these questions, because we are not going to stop discussing them. The more we discuss them, the more we must dare to take a stand and the more people we inform both about rights and opportunities and about things we do not want to see.
i-FztAHCm6nSZFPRStAteVbp	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of School, for the clarity! It is important to be able to stand up without being afraid of so-called sensitive issues. In Sweden you hardly dare to talk about what is a problem. There are some noisy men in all religions. As soon as you talk about this, they write and say, "Oh, oh, oh, oh. It's just men. It's rarely women. Look at the words of life or Islamic and religious schools! It is rarely women who are on us; it is usually men. This is also an aspect. It is we women or girls who should pay the price. The men get the honor of writing debate articles in the newspapers and exerting influence, while we should be silent because these are sensitive issues. No, we have to stand up now that the school plan changes and new laws are in place. All parties and, above all, the government have now invested so much money against the oppression of honour. Then we cannot, with one hand, contribute this and with the other hand maintain sexual oppression and mechanisms that push down girls' and young people's lives. According to the reports that have come – among other things, researcher Devin Rexvid has investigated this – most of those cared for under LVU have fled, such as Jasmine as I mentioned, because of religious influences or because they refuse to wear a veil. The Malmö report gives a clear and clear picture of how parents tell their little girls in preschool that they should not sit on the knee of a man. We must stop this.
i-StiVQpEr7pR3JrW3cJjYg4	Madam President, I would like I fully agree with Amineh Kakabaveh that we should continue to talk about these issues. This is not just about school but also about other areas. We are trying to put forward proposals in my area of responsibility, educational care. We also have the segregation issue and how we use school queues. But we also get into other things related to housing segregation. We can talk about the labour market and opportunities to learn a language and get a job. Finally, it is perhaps a question of women's ability to live an independent life, to make their decisions and be able to do so in an independent system. If we have a society in which men rule, it will be easy on men's terms, and we shall not accept this but counter it. It is therefore important that we have a school that does not slow down housing segregation and that at school it is not about who your mother and father are but what you want. You should succeed whether you have an NPF diagnosis or if you have parents who cannot help you with homework. It should be possible for everyone to succeed in school and get into high school. Passing upper secondary school is a ticket to being able to make independent decisions. I would like to thank Amineh Kakabaverh and hope that we will meet again in interpellation debates, because we shall continue to debate this issue.
i-2GuAkRrbwqrACGhcF2vrEn	Madam President, I would like Angelica Lundberg has asked me how I intend to act to prevent children from being adversely affected, for example by homelessness, due to the indebtedness of guardians. It takes very seriously the fact that the number of children affected by eviction increased in 2021 and is therefore closely following developments. The absolute majority of evictions in families with children – 87 per cent – were due to rental debts. In particular, single parents and families with long-standing financial problems are affected. Over a period of years, the number of children affected by eviction has decreased, m one since 2018, unfortunately, we see an increase. The Swedish Enforcement Authority argues that a likely explanation for the increase is that landlords wait for eviction in 2020 due to the pandemic, instead of applying for eviction in 2021. Being evicted has serious consequences, for individuals, for relatives and for society, and not least for the children affected. The goal must be not to evict children. Therefore, in February this year, the Government commissioned the Swedish Enforcement Authority to work towards establishing eviction prevention cooperation with social services and landlords in all municipalities. The work shall focus in particular on the prevention of evictions involving children. The Government has also commissioned the county boards to support the municipalities in their efforts to prevent and counteract evictions. The government has for many years taken measures to strengthen households with weak finances and to combat over-indebtedness and homelessness. Most recently in the spring amending budget, the government proposed that the housing allowance be increased temporarily for families with children in order to protect households with a weak economy in particular from strong price rises. The government has also taken other measures against these price increases, such as reduced taxes on fuel and petrol. Other actions in recent years include increased child support and maintenance support, as well as temporary financial reinforcements related to the pandemic. The government is also working long-term to make it easier for the financially weak families with children. In January 2022, the inquiry into housing allowance and maintenance support – reduced indebtedness and increased accuracy(BUMS) submitted its final report. The report is now being referred to 30 June, and the government looks forward to receiving comments on the proposal. A number of measures have been implemented to reverse developments and help people who are in an economically vulnerable situation. These include interest and cost ceilings for high-cost credits, a requirement that the marketing of all credits should be moderate, that credit purchases should not be the first or the default option for online purchases and a new debt restructuring law that made it easier to apply for and obtain debt restructuring. In November 2021, the Government also decided to give a special investigator a mandate to counteract risky lending and over-indebtedness. The investigator shall, inter alia, look at the possibility of introducing a central debt register. The assignment will be presented in May 2023. More specifically, with regard to homelessness, the National Board of Health and Welfare has analysed and made proposals for measures to prevent and combat homelessness within the responsibility and area of social services. The Government intends to develop a national homelessness strategy for the period 2022 – 2026 and expects to allocate 40 million per year during the strategy period.
i-HrwQBLXYceGGTQJNy9WW4m	Madam President, I would like About 162,000 children currently live in over-indebted households in Sweden. These are children who are not responsible for their own situation, but who still suffer very badly. The number of evictions of families with children has increased and is the largest since 2011. During the first half of 2021, 273 children lost their home when both or one of the children's parents were evicted. Of course, the pandemic and the resulting economic problems have not improved the situation. The government is pursuing a policy that has led to a sharp rise in electricity and fuel costs, which has created a domino effect on the rest of society. And it is not just coffee and tomatoes that have become more expensive. Everything produced with electricity and supplied with fuel has risen in price. It is therefore a very large part of what ordinary Swedes buy that has become more expensive. As long as the government's electricity and fuel costs continue to drive inflation, which is now at the highest level since the 1990s, more and more people will find it difficult to reconcile their everyday lives. This affects the children, not least. Now that we have this situation in the country, it is not good enough to come up with half-time proposals that have no effect on action or to wait for the next European directive. Nor can we issue directives to the authorities that take more years before they are finished. We need to act here and now. The Swedish Democrats want to prevent the problems and discourage indebtedness before it happens so that more children are not affected by the insecurity of homelessness. We have therefore put forward a strong action programme against over-indebtedness with 20 points on Parliament's table. The Social Democrats have voted against all of these points. The proposals include improved credit testing so that only those who are able to repay a loan can borrow, stricter rules for high-cost credits, reduced interest rates on the most expensive loans, more education and better municipal support. This is because over-indebtedness is a serious, large and growing problem. But we also do so that more children will not be affected when parents are in debt. We need to stop the negative spiral. If one has problems managing one's finances, consumes over one's ability to pay and finds it difficult to save money, it is more difficult for children in those families to learn sound financial management. But none of these proposals think the Social Democrats are good, because they have voted against them. My question is therefore whether Max Elger intends to act to prevent more children from getting hurt, and what he intends to do concretely here and now.
i-15WVy1RX1erD2ijsfJ8D72	Madam President, I would like In my introductory speech, I outlined things that we are doing here and now. We have given the Swedish Enforcement Authority a mission to work with eviction prevention efforts. We have commissioned the county boards to assist the municipalities in preventing and counteracting evictions. We also propose in our amending budget a temporary increase in housing allowance to enable financially vulnerable families with children to cope with the difficult times in which we live. Angelica Lundberg describes well the price increases we see in Sweden. She relates it to the government's efforts. I think that's a little too important for the government. We see exactly the same development in all countries across Europe. We see it in America. There is, of course, an explanation for this. This is the conflict that we are now experiencing in our neighbourhood where electricity, gas and oil prices have gone away as a result of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. I noted within the parantes that Angelica Lundberg's party leader could not make a clear statement about that week before, when he could not choose between Putin and Biden. But perhaps it is a side matter in this context. We are in complete agreement that we should not see evictions of children. That is why we have taken important steps. We have also put forward proposals that would directly help families with children to fund their housing. In the autumn budget, we proposed increasing investment support for cost-effective and cheap rentals. There, the Swedish Democrats chose to oppose that proposal when they implemented their budget with Moderates and Christian Democrats. I note that the Swedish Democrats themselves sometimes talk about raising the housing allowance. But once they negotiate with the Moderates, those proposals disappear. It's a famous manners. This also applies to actions on consumer guidance, which we have discussed in the past. At the moment, the government has put forward a proposal for an increase in housing allowance for families with children. I have not yet heard the Swedish Democrats comment on this. It is somewhat up to you this time whether the Swedish Democrats will support the Government's proposal to increase housing allowance for vulnerable families with children. I am excited to see the proposals of the Swedish Democrats and a possible joint proposal from the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats in this respect. In conclusion, the government is doing a huge number of things here and now and is making progressive proposals to counter the problems we perceive. We have often seen that the Swedish Democrats have opposed such distribution proposals. This was particularly true of the proposal to reduce taxes on economically vulnerable, disabled and long-term ills which we tabled last autumn and which the Swedish Democrats chose not to implement. Finally, Angelica Lundberg, can you tell me: Will you support our proposal to increase the housing allowance for vulnerable families with children who are currently on Parliament's table and where the Swedish democrats are set to behave in a moment?
i-T5MXzninKsFj5o1EXTZecM	Madam President, I would like Let us look a little at what the government says it has done to ease the situation for children in over-indebted households. In February 2022 it was written in the regulation letter that the Swedish Enforcement Authority should work for eviction prevention cooperation. That's great. Then you talk a lot about the contributions that you want to introduce. It's symptomatic of government policy. It continues to keep taxes and costs at high levels so that ordinary people cannot afford, and then it is compensated by paying subsidies. In this situation, whether the Swedish Democrats will support an increase in housing allowance or child allowance is something we will have to wait until the budget is put forward and see. But the fact is that we have to relate to the situation that this government has created. The fact is, Madam President, that the government represented by Max Elger has been in power for almost eight years. That's quite a long time. Thus, during that time, the number of children evicted has increased. The price of electricity has gone up. Fuel prices are at insanely high levels. Inflation is the highest in 30 years. Insecure is spreading in our country. Shooting, gang violence, riots, and riots are things we have become accustomed to. The debt mountain is increasing, and people are getting harder and harder in their everyday lives. Without ralliing, Madam President, I cannot, in fact, come up with a single area in which this government has succeeded. The Swedish Democrats have put forward many proposals that could really make a difference. When it comes to over-indebtedness and children's situation in indebted households, we want, among other things, to strengthen young people's knowledge of private finances. We want to strengthen and develop consumer guidance in the best way so that all citizens, regardless of where they live, are given the opportunity for local consumer guidance. We want to investigate how a complete debt register can be introduced so that those who are to grant a credit can get an overview of the consumer's entire economy. We want to improve and extend the creditworthiness test. We want credits that mainly relate to credit purchases, i.e. purchases linked to a good or service, to be covered by the Act on High Cost Credits. The same applies to purchases where payment is converted from invoice to partial payment – we want them also to be covered by the rules on high-cost credits. We want to limit the number of high-cost credits and further tighten the regulation on the marketing of credit. We have also proposed measures to increase the construction of apartments that people can afford to live in. The fact that the investment aid would provide more rents is not true; it is stated. At the same time, we want to reduce the price of fuel and electricity – for real and not like the government, which gives with one hand and brings the other. This, Madam President, is just a sample of all the measures that we have proposed and to which the Social Democrats have said no. The fact that the vast majority of the families that are being evicted have rent debts and that the pandemic is a major reason is surely me and the Government agree. But this situation could reasonably be predicted. Why didn't the government act earlier? Didn't you see it coming?
i-LZd5Uz4obbV7QBybSCKy4s	Madam President, I would like I was asked a few questions that I have to deal with, but let us start with Mr Lundberg's opening words on the fact that the measures taken by the government are excellent. We are in complete agreement there, and that is a pleasure. In addition, Member Lundberg had difficulty finding something that is good in life. I can make some minor observations to help her. Employment in Sweden is currently the highest we have seen since the early 1990s. It's not bad. It's good when people have jobs and can make a living. Unemployment is falling, and the economy is growing. I would say that is not insignificant observation when trying to evaluate what the situation really is in the country. Having said that, Mr Lundberg mentions several proposals in the area of indebtedness. It is precisely these proposals we are investigating now – proposals for a central debt register that will allow for a better credit assessment, about moderation in marketing, about lowering the interest rate ceiling on high-cost credits, etc. Then we have the fact that we are not only able to put forward proposals in any case, but they must be properly investigated and examined. That is the work that is going on, so even in that part we seem to be in complete agreement. Where we do not agree is when you get to the bottom of problems such as the lack of cheap rentals. There, the government proposed that we increase investment aid for rental apartments, which have given rise to a very large number of rental apartments. This opposed the Swedish Democrats, whereupon there will of course be fewer rents that ordinary people can fund. I can only regret that. I also note that the Swedish Democrats are opposed to other efforts to help economically vulnerable, not least long-term ill and disabled people, with a special tax that is commonly referred to as the functional tax. I look forward with excitement to the draft budget of the Swedish Democrats, and I look forward with just as much to seeing what may emanate from a discussion with the Moderates. We have learned by now that the Swedish Democrats may speak of sympathetic proposals, but when it comes to it, there are no resources there. My question to Mr Lundberg remains: In this vulnerable situation for families with children, as illustrated by Mr Lundberg in an excellent way, we therefore have a proposal on the table of Parliament which is to increase housing allowances for these families with children. My question is simply why the Swedish Democrats do not just support it. After all, it is a good proposal to remedy evictions and homelessness for children.
i-8YEH9fhrskpmRzdt9nnYBz	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Now it's like this: things don't become more true, lies don't become more true, the more you repeat them. This funkis tax has been dealt with quite a few times before. There is no such concept, and it is not something the Swedish Democrats have introduced, so I hope we can put a blanket over it. It is also a bit comical when the Government deals with employment. I do not know – are we the worst in Europe now, or have we jumped up any placements? What about employment? The Government is happy to report on its progress. Of course, children who are evicted, who are allowed to move around with relatives or live in a hostel and who lack a fixed point of existence, suffer ill. It creates a precarious everyday life that can lead to problems in school, problems with friends and mental illness. Of course, it is good that Kronofogden cooperates with the social services to prevent evictions of families with children. But the fact that this was something that did not happen before but that the government commissioned the Swedish Enforcement Authority only in February this year is telling how issues of indebtedness and other issues are dealt with by this government. You wait until something happens instead of thinking ahead. Only when the problem is a fact does the government act. Then it may many times be too late. You're reactive instead of proactive. Our proposals aim to stop over-indebtedness before it happens, while the government focuses on putting plasters on already open wounds. You just don't see it coming. I hope that, with this debate, the Council of State will be aware of the problem, and that he will act quickly and concisely so that we can avoid further child harm in the future.
i-QXWCe9YFQXx9U7DHTpyCcQ	Madam President, I would like I draw attention to the fact that Angelica Lundberg has paid attention to what the government is now doing to counteract the eviction of families with children and thinks that these are good efforts. That is what we are doing here and now, and I think we are looking at the problem the same way. I was asked about employment – this is more of an educational nature. Employment in Sweden is the second highest in Europe. We're not really the highest, but second highest. It's all right. I sincerely hope that in this way I have provided a more adequate statement of reality as we continue this discussion in a different context. I also got a question about the funkis tax that the Swedish Democrats chose to introduce last autumn. It is the fact that we live with. If the Swedish Democrats had not chosen to settle the budget with the Moderates, the disabled, long-term ills and others who live on sickness and activity benefits would have paid less tax than is the case today. Of course, it would have been favorable in the times in which we live. So I can only regret that the Swedish Democrats are in any way talking about financial vulnerability, which can even sound quite well in my ears at times, but when it comes down to it, they make up with the Moderates. Then the result will be zero crowns on these efforts. There will be higher taxes for disabled people and other vulnerable people who live on sickness and activity benefits. I thank you for all the kind words about the good efforts that the government is making. There we are in complete agreement. I am pleased that I have been told that Sweden is actually experiencing a fairly good general economic condition and hope that this is the starting point for our continued interactions. But I regret that it is the Moderates who rule when the Swedish Democrats formulate their economic policy.
