i-6rGKWEZvYMy86hkGBvmjRY	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth, Minister for Defence Peter Hultqvist, Minister Anders Ygeman and Minister Ida Karkiainen. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-E9TtuS4aJwFhdp62H3c6z5	Madam President, I would like I would like to address my question to Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. Europe is in the most serious international security situation for decades. Russia has mobilized over 100 000 soldiers in the immediate vicinity of Ukraine and has made quite unreasonable demands that would restrict Sweden's ability to become a member of NATO and restrict Sweden's ability to conduct international training activities. As the ÖB has said, Russian demands threaten to destroy the very foundations of our defence policy. Madam President, I would like That is also why six out of eight parties have now called on the government to activate the Defence Committee, so that we can analyse in broad political consensus the crisis that has arisen and take measures to strengthen the total defence. My question to the Minister for Defence is, therefore, when the government will return with a statement as to whether it will activate the Committee on Defence.
i-W9n9YXks9PWXu2nurLEhJn	Madam President, I would like There are many ways to deal with this kind of difficult situation. One way that is extremely important is the markings that we now make on Gotland and in other places around Sweden's borders. This is about both visible and hidden activities. It is about that with the resources we have, we move equipment and soldiers and in this way mark the defence of Sweden. It is also the case that we have an existing defence decision, which means that we add EUR 5 billion a year – a total of EUR 27 1⁄2 billion until 2025. It should be seen that this is going on gradually. It's being delivered, and we're strengthening military capabilities. Consideration could be given to taking different types of measures, such as those related to the Defence Committee. However, I would like to say that there are many things that matter a lot right now.
i-13wfZYG9J8sztrirpo3J2x	Madam President, I would like It is clear that we are in a different and significantly worse security policy situation than just a few months ago. After all, the defence committee is the government's forum for designing the long-term security and defence policy together with the parties in the Riksdag. It has delivered before – that is where we agreed on the Swedish declaration of solidarity, that is where we laid the foundations for the total defence decision and that is where we have shaped much of our security and defence policy. If we were to activate our defence preparation now, it would be a strong signal to our surrounding world about Swedish unity in a troubled world.
i-YTbYR9RNtER2h6Tgv2gKR7	Madam President, I would like What is now delivered in the form of a wide range of activities is based on the defence decisions we took in 2015 and 2020. These defence decisions included reinforcements that are now being used in an offensive and clear manner. I want to make it clear that what we do and have done means something. The time for any information regarding a possible defence preparation will come back to when we have prepared this issue in the Government Office.
i-Wx54g88yGqLNqMUL1xBmwf	Madam President, I would like In a debate with Jimmie Åkesson in Aktuellt last Monday, Minister Ygeman said: When you get a no on your asylum application, it's people who deviate. That is why we need reception centres where we have a comprehensive asylum management system, so that we can avoid people leaving when they get a no. This is, as the Government is probably aware, a proposal that has been put forward by the Swedish Democrats for many years. However, Minister Ygeman said in another interview the other week that asylum seekers will continue to be allowed to settle wherever they want in Sweden. This sounds, to say the least, rather inconsistent. Should we be in control, or should the government continue with the same laxity as in the last seven years? The question is: Does the Government, like the Swedish Democrats, want asylum seekers only to be able to live in reception centres, or should it continue to be free to live wherever they want in the country without control?
i-RsV6bgRUB6Bj9wmmftfsH5	Madam President, I would like I thank Jonas Andersson for the question, although it may be said to be politicised and leading, to say the least. The answer is quite simple. We have been pushing the issue of reception centres for a long time, and there is an investigation going on. As the government is now abolishing the EBO reform that the planned coalition parties of the Swedish Democrats were implementing, it is precisely about the fact that vulnerable areas should not be replenished with more asylum seekers. That's why we're going to have an orderly reception, which is why we're going to have reception centres, and that's why we're going to abolish the EBO Act.
i-BfecQ4EqvNny7hRjMQXwnW	Madam President, I would like If I understand the proposal that the government has previously made right, we want to have control in the early days, but all asylum seekers should still be able to move anywhere they want in the country. Only financial incentives should govern – people can live wherever they want, but they have to provide for themselves illegally. My supplementary question is: in what way would that solution prevent people from leaving when they get a no?
i-S4PWmodR3MaGr6h1sD2xDQ	Madam President, I would like No, Jonas Andersson has completely misunderstood the state of things. The idea is that we will get an arranged reception. As Jonas Andersson probably knows, this is currently under investigation. The financial incentives are one of the things the investigation has to look at. There may be quite different methods, instruments and instruments as well. I look forward to the debate that will follow when the investigation has submitted its report.
i-8EQHPyHdh17u6Daxdcw8y2	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Mr Eneroth a question. Denmark is currently using Öresund as a landfill. Over 40 000 containers of contaminated sludge are dumped two kilometres from Falsterbo's Natura 2000 site. Öresund is the world's busiest water and is directly connected to the Baltic Sea, which is the world's most dead sea. From the Danish side, it has been claimed that Sweden has been satisfied with the information obtained during discussions. But the Environmental Protection Agency and the National Board of Justice are clear that this is not the case. Both Danish and Swedish authorities, organisations and not least citizens criticise the ongoing work. However, special legislation has been adopted to prevent Danish organisations, municipalities and citizens from complaining. I, the media and organisations are asking for input from the Swedish Government, which takes hold of the Danish Government and says that this is not accepted. But the Swedish government is not acting. If Finland were to dump two million cubic metres of contaminated sludge outside the Stockholm archipelago, would the government remain silent even then? You might wonder.
i-JxLWGdjk4SkPmVoBSDaPcE	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Paarup-Petersen-Petersen for his commitment. It's incredibly important. We have very good relations with our neighbour Denmark and a well-functioning cooperation. This is a well-integrated region, which, moreover, as Minister for Infrastructure, I want to integrate further through fixed relations and a common labour market. It also means that we do not take any government in the ear, or as Niels Paarup-Petersen-Petersen put it. But we are very keen to have good information exchange through our authorities, through our respective ministries and when necessary between ministers to ensure that we do not end up in situations where, for example, we have a disagreement on how to deal with environmental waste. I can assure Mr Paarup-Petersen-Petersen that there is a well-functioning dialogue with Denmark. Of course, this is one of the issues that can sometimes occur in the inter-country dialogue.
i-U36vzHm3DJ1U41EDMCNmr1	Madam President, I would like The Minister for the Environment has been actively asked whether she intends to act on the matter. She's told me she's going to follow it. It's kind of passive. The County Administrative Board has talked about the illegal spread of contaminated sludge into Swedish Natura 2000 sites. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency says that it is a very inappropriate dumping site that does not meet the requirements of Sweden. There will be changes in the water flow through Öresund. The billions that we have spent many years trying to clean up the Sound risk being in vain. The government wants to make Öresund a biosphere area. This counteracts it. Why can the government not tell the Danish Government that it is dissatisfied?
i-JbBRJfxQKMPGYvADeuU2bd	Madam President, I would like I think the important thing is that we have a well-functioning dialogue where we are clear and mark what is Swedish interests, not least the Swedish ambition to both develop the biosphere and ensure that we have clean and safe water on our coasts. At the same time, respect must also be given to what is managed by the authorities and to the examination of existing authorisations by the authorities. It is not always possible for the government or the government to intervene there. I know that Niels Paarup-Petersen-Petersen also understands that.
i-JBCDR6chAY6Nyyv37rk539	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister of Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth. Swedish Radio has reviewed the government's contribution to charging poles for electric cars. Of the SEK 1.7 billion that has been paid out in the last six years, the clear majority has gone to households in metropolitan areas. For example, Danderyd municipality has received more money for charging poles than the entire county of Västernorrland, despite the fact that Västernorrland has seven times as many inhabitants as Danderyd. There is an obvious charging injustice in this benefit system. Electric cars and rechargeable vehicles are the right way to go. There will be no emissions, and we will be independent of fossil fuels. But the whole country must be able to take part in this transformation. Tomas Eneroth! How do you get to grips with this charge-out justice? How to ensure that we get charging infrastructure throughout the country, even in sparsely populated areas and for low income earners?
i-AEo3e8aW8P3rTL2Tvyhemk	Madam President, I would like I thank Jens Holm for the question. I share his view. This is support going all over the country. However, I can note that in application procedures there has been a concentration in municipalities and regions that have been very active. This is one of the reasons why, for example, we have commissioned the Swedish Transport Administration to identify white spots and make special government efforts in those areas where there is no expanded charging infrastructure. Within the framework of the Electrification Commission's work, a survey of where the most efficient and fastest can come charging possibilities for not least heavy-duty vehicles is now underway. I can assure Jens Holm that there are a number of initiatives going on to ensure that we are expanding the charging infrastructure throughout the country. Nevertheless, I believe that we are one of the best in the European Union. We have over 65 000 agreed charging points with public funds, and we also have a variety of private initiatives. The charging infrastructure is now growing in Sweden, and it will do so throughout Sweden.
i-E6wCwv6uhV1zcXeiryZkFm	Madam President, I would like I think the problem is about both the cars and the charging poles themselves. An electric car is very expensive. It would therefore be good if the government could develop a climate bonus system for new electric cars to promote smaller and cheap electric cars. For example, roofs should be used for large expensive electric cars, for those who buy them may not need much funding. I also believe that we need targeted support for rural areas and low-income households. Is the Minister prepared to work for it?
i-PD5Bt1wAi18MG9fE5pz1b4	Madam President, I would like Much of what Jens Holm is calling for is what the government is already doing. Both bonus malus and various forms of electricity premiums when buying an electric car already exist. Let us evaluate this and see if there is any reason to change governance! But there is no doubt that we have been successful. In December, 63 per cent, if I remember correctly, of new car sales in Sweden related to rechargeable cars. We are at the forefront of the whole of Europe. That is also why I think it is important to focus now on not least the expansion of charging infrastructure.
i-5PSZzMhwLYPH6kWgsdfvUE	Madam President, I would like The Government has presented a proposal for electricity price subsidies based on the number of kilowatt hours spent per month. But we now see that there are many households that may have had very large increases in electricity bills, even if they had a relatively low consumption compared to others. Many of these households already live with small margins but will miss out on government funding. At the same time, there are examples of households that can get more in grants than the cost increase justifies. That's how twisted the government's proposal is. Against this background, I wonder whether the proposal for a grant did not go a little too fast to push for the government. Were customers supposed to go plus the government's proposal?
i-BjJKfcHoVqJkS6r4VYx8Zp	Madam President, I would like I thank Camilla Brodin for the question. A recurring criticism from the opposition is usually that it is too little and too late. Now it was obviously too much and too early. Let's talk about that. I think it was very important that we could give this clear signal with the sharply rising electricity prices that we could see, so that very many households did not have to worry. The proposal has now been presented. Let us make a proper evaluation and follow-up too! I think there is reason to welcome the fact that we from the government were able to act quickly and forcefully with the proposal that now goes out with over 6 billion in direct support to those who are affected by the sharp rise in electricity prices.
i-YAGXYPbEkiGmXnmgis1mpH	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. Let's get back to it if time has been good. We have proposed a reduction in electricity tax to make it easier for households. It's more fair to everyone. However, the government has stated that this is in principle impossible to implement, despite the fact that the Energy Market Inspectorate has clearly stated that it is possible. Is the government, however, prepared to reconsider its proposal for a model and lower taxes for everyone rather than to give subsidies to some so that they make a plus deal?
i-F3PWiPHK9FirwNmcLcb5VB	Madam President, I would like I thank Camilla Brodin for the question. It is not surprising that, for example, the Christian Democrats are proposing a tax reduction as a solution to this. We are used to the fact that major tax cuts are always seen from the bourgeois side as the best solutions to most problems. We have been keen to be clear and swift in directing aid that does not need to be investigated for a long time, which can provide security to households as to which rules apply and which makes a welcome contribution to the situation we are now in.
i-91d53hfKJwmMrZnr9j3bYA	Madam President, I would like In its report on cost control in infrastructure investments, the Swedish National Audit Office notes that there are serious deficiencies in cost control at Trafikverket. For example, the current proposals for national plan projects with cost increases of 30 billion over four years, as part of the high-speed rail network. This pushes away acute projects, such as the Gothenburg – Alingsås section with Sweden's worst capacity shortage. The Swedish National Audit Office also notes that the government has acted passively and that it is very rare for the government to stop a project with high cost increases. My question to Minister Eneroth is therefore: Is the Government prepared to prioritise in Trafikverket's documentation to create space for more socially viable projects?
i-UzQRwkZbNFyjRngXBkPYgE	Madam President, I would like I thank Helena Gellerman for the question. It is of course very important that a clear priority is made, and when the Finnish Transport Administration has presented its proposal for a national plan, I have made it clear that there will be changes in relation to that proposal. Let us back off a little and note that it is almost SEK 900 billion that is now included in the infrastructure bill approved by Parliament. It is about record investment in infrastructure, because it needs to be invested not least in the railways. The construction of new main roads is an important part of this. The routes Gothenburg– Borås, Lund– Hässleholm and Ostlinken are investments that have strong roots in these regions, like the business community and are definitely needed because it is too crowded today. If we do not make these investments, we will have major problems throughout the Swedish transport system, which is why we have created a space to invest in these parts of new main roads.
i-L9qXRAq29N6K6pQQgPJKdB	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. For the Liberals it is important that projects financed by the state are given priority on a socio-economic basis. Gothenburg – Alingsås is the stretch in Sweden with the greatest capacity shortage. This affects the possibilities of the Port of Gothenburg and limits both long-distance traffic and commuting.
i-XgVBxFfqojUQ5Ms43MNfhK	Madam President, I would like I can assure Helena Gellerman that I am currently being courted from all over the country, and you pick up various objects and point out how urgent they are. Often it is important efforts with local, regional and national benefits, which makes the priority quite tough in the future. It is gratifying to see that almost 900 billion are spent on infrastructure thanks to a government that chooses to invest in infrastructure instead of unilateral tax cuts.
i-MRmp3CDU8vLRSjSbwitgiD	Madam President, I would like My question also goes to Minister Eneroth. Let me quote the Prime Minister: is it easy for travellers to make good and smart climate choices?That is why we are now making climate declarations for air travel? In this way, we make the climate impact of aviation visible, reward the airlines that take greater climate responsibility and accelerate the transition. ..................................................... I couldn't have said it better myself. The quote is from last autumn when the government presented its proposal on climate declarations for air travel. When the present government presented proposals to Parliament, this proposal was not included. Why?
i-RxfLXXrF3L2g6GzZ1EXYYY	Madam President, I would like I thank Margareta Fransson for both praise and question. I share the view that it is important to provide a good basis for clear choices for those who want to travel climate smart, and, as I said, we have had a process with a basis that applies precisely to climate declarations for aviation. It has been out for consultation, but during the consultation period there were a number of major objections to the proposal, which means that it will not be submitted before June. This is why it is not on the bill list. The question needs further consideration.
i-B4nuqu9Jgk64FgYKAfyaxV	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. I believe that the government has had plenty of time, and I therefore suspect that the delay is due to the lack of the party that is passionate about the climate change of transport in the government.
i-CPs784XF6gqB7vK2bekXXJ	Madam President, I would like I can assure Margareta Fransson that this commitment is probably not only in the Green Party but also in the Social Democrats and in many other parties that want Sweden to change and have good tools for this. I would like to make sure, however, that when the Government makes proposals, they should be well worked out and be able to go through in the Riksdag. This is an important starting point. I am convinced that the issue of climate declarations will come back.
i-PXej53Kd1K7XfizieCmoys	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Anders Ygeman about the law on own living, EBO. Breaking segregation is one of the government's most important priorities, and as the Government has previously said, the investigation An arranged initial reception of asylum seekers has been given as an additional direct examination of what can be done to achieve this. Already two years ago, the government limited the possibility for asylum seekers to live in their own homes in areas with socio-economic challenges. Moving on now and phasing out EBO completely means a major contribution to reducing segregation. My questions to the Government are: What effects did the previous decision have, and does the Government know today how many people chose to live in municipalities other than those with socio-economic challenges?
i-Qb44eRzrJdUh8K67Aob9hb	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Bjellqvist for the question. The previous reform was a step along the way but had far too little effect. Too many chose to live in socially vulnerable areas. This suggests that the incentives were too weak, and therefore we want to test other incentives, measures and rules to definitively end EBO. Our idea is that we should have a controlled asylum reception where you come to a reception centre and know within a reasonable time whether you can stay or not. If you are not entitled to asylum, you should return. However, if you have the right to asylum, you should be placed in a municipality and have access to language education, work and housing in order to enter Swedish society and contribute to the Swedish household.
i-7eUXAvjzrSYmypzhqDAiGx	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. My supplementary questions are: What will it be like? Where do you go? We know that there are municipalities that do not want to receive, and what incentives can we have for the municipalities to receive more asylum seekers?
i-RNnd78sq1vtH9V9CP9BYp5	Madam President, I would like It is quite easy, because we have binding legislation in place that municipalities should receive according to their conditions. We also know from the Swedish National Audit Office's report that this is a functioning system that gives an introduction to Swedish society that makes you enter society in a better way than if you are forced to live on a mattress with a relative in a socially vulnerable residential area.
i-HPvJMf3eS8zqcKHWv7z49u	Madam President, I would like Some day ago, Socialist MEPs Fritzon and Bergkvist declared that greenwashing nuclear energy does not belong in the EU's most important toolbox for sustainable investment. It's like backing into the future. And the new Minister for Energy says that it may be justified in other countries but not in Sweden. In yesterday's EU debate, Hans Dahlgren stated that S has now turned and that nuclear power should be classified as sustainable in the EU. Government of Tomas Eneroth! Now that the Green Party has left the government, do the Social Democrats have a line of their own in the field of nuclear energy at all? Is it sustainable or not?
i-KCja5wBxbTVEMPa1sPHoPA	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Helena Bouveng, for the question! The government has always said that fossil-free technologies that can contribute to climate change while meeting strict safety and environmental requirements are needed. That's why they should be able to be part of taxonomics. This also applies to nuclear energy, and that is what the Minister for Finance raised at the European Council in December. However, I do not think it can be called sustainable. How can one term something that will be preserved for hundreds of thousands of years as sustainable? It doesn't make any sense. I think it is important to distinguish between the concepts, and that is the starting point when we now assess how nuclear energy can be included in taxonomy.
i-9roWc1xe1rViUop7nAHJsi	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Energy further points out that our hydropower is the most important source of energy. Yet the testing of all our power plants continues, which risks leading to the disappearance of much-needed terawatt hours. Is this reasonable when our households and businesses get on their knees because of sky-high electricity bills?
i-C1DbRbQwtBeuxkLwvX25Du	Madam President, I would like I am a little unsure whether I understood the question correctly, but of course it is obvious that there will also be a test for the expansion of hydropower. It is an important reserve that we have in Sweden and an important part of the Swedish energy system, but in case of changes it will be environmentally tested just like many other businesses. It's obvious. Sweden stands strongly in that we have an incredibly large access to renewable energy. We have a good and well-functioning energy mix, and we have also created a space where we have been able to export renewable electricity to the outside world. Compared to the outside world, we have an enviable situation.
i-GFZCEEr5uEj5VExdijuR97	Madam President, I would like There is evidence that 300 to 400 Russian mercenaries from the Wagner Group are in Mali. This is also the case for approximately 350 Swedish soldiers and officers sent by the Riksdag. Much has changed in Mali, and promises by the military regime of free and fair presidential and parliamentary elections by February 2022 will not be fulfilled. Last weekend there were two grenade attacks on military bases in Mali, where a French soldier was killed and nine soldiers injured. It's bases where Swedish soldiers work. This is just one in a series of many attacks that take place where Swedish personnel are in place. A majority in the Riksdag considers it unacceptable that Swedish military forces should continue to operate in Mali if the Malian government hires mercenaries like the Wagner Group. Information on the presence of the Wagner Group has been available since December and has been confirmed for some time. However, the government wants further time to consider the consequences. Is the Minister of Defence prepared to continue to risk Swedish lives in Mali for a military regime that clearly rejected democracy with the support of Russian mercenaries?
i-HL4fkeaDtUwCVWKuRsSf7g	Madam President, I would like One day ago, I was standing at the very spot where the grenades had come down. I visited the units in O peration Takuba and in Minusma and met the Swedish soldiers. I also gave them a special speech. The UN operation involves more than 15 000 soldiers. The Russian representation down there is now said to be 300 - 400, although there are also data of up to 1,000. A long series of discussions are now taking place, almost tomorrow, on how to proceed and how to act, for example, within the framework of the coalition for Operation Takuba. I believe that it is important to work together in the coalition, that the various countries that contribute are in step with each other and that this dimension is strong when taking the decisive steps.
i-WFaZ8RmTveES8FxqxfrEaV	Madam President, I would like I'll keep it short. My question to the Minister for Defence is: when can we expect an answer?
i-6idGNjpGsX8FujPHGt3Hnr	Madam President, I would like As we have explained earlier at a joint meeting of the Committee on Defence and Foreign Affairs, we want another month to work on these issues. It's not at all as simple as just saying, this is exactly how we do it. It must go together with how to work together in a broad coalition so that we do not cause a relationship that is comparable to Afghanistan.
i-9XSHGUmdjdh11adQmhPiFn	Madam President, I would like A Swedish airline has thrown in the towel this week. There is a smaller airline in the country, and this confirms something that we have known for quite some time, namely that the ice is becoming thin throughout the country's accessibility and the Swedish aviation industry. Yesterday, the Swedish Transport Agency announced that it intends to increase and, within a period of time, double the so-called infrastructure charges for safety and passenger control. I have previously asked the Minister for Infrastructure what he intends to do with the built-up financial deficits in what finances the air transport infrastructure, i.e. air traffic management and traffic control, and has received answers that are very much about historical efforts. Now we are facing a huge deficit of fees accumulated during the pandemic. I therefore take this opportunity to ask Minister Eneroth: what does the government intend to do with these?
i-HByncSsbhkzEGXQmPUJuot	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anders Åkesson, for a good question! That is quite right – aviation is severely affected by the pandemic. During these years, we have had to make great efforts to maintain socially important flights in Sweden, ranging from aid to regional and state airports to the establishment of a public service obligation to ensure air transport but also direct aid to aviation and, not least, to the aviation industry. An important requirement there is that at the same time we see that there is a change, and that is the flight in Sweden on its way to do. However, the very charges we are now talking about are not something that Sweden itself has at its disposal, but it is a discussion within the EU community about how we should relate to the charging system that exists and that affects aviation. That is why it is important that we act in a way that is in harmony with other European countries so that we do not have major differences and different drivers for airlines when it comes to where they establish the routes.
i-HFGYc1VZvBRKhqJR1iVV38	Madam President, I would like The historic efforts we have made together in this House, and the ambition to change aviation is also a very great common ambition in Swedish politics. But the question was about the infrastructure charges which are now accumulated into significant deficits at national and European level and which threaten to impair accessibility in the country and between our country and the rest of the countries. What is the government's strategy to deal with this? After all, we are members of the European Union.
i-Fi5Ws3BQEB8RUH6q4kPhXH	Madam President, I would like We are having a discussion with the other European countries on how to deal with the huge mountain of charges that has not been able to be charged. Taking them out now at the same time would have major consequences for all flights within the EU. Then there are some different approaches between the EU Member States, and that is why it is important for us to have a discussion in the EU community about the timing of dealing with this. We will have to come back, not least in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, to have a dialogue on this.
i-FoSFy6LiUydn7Gimkw3zDn	Madam President, I would like SJ has changed personnel planning systems without the new system being completed and without knowing whether it would work, this despite warnings. This has meant considerable delays, cancellations of trains, uncertainty and trouble for travellers, but above all a completely unsustainable working life for employees, who do not get their schedules on time and who get tours that do not match their skills and extreme working hours. They break, and sick leave shone, not just because of corona, but because of exhaustion. This is not the first time the staff has been hit hard. The government refers to the fact that SJ is a limited liability company, but I believe that the state as owner has a fundamental responsibility for the business. Now I wonder: What measures does the government plan to take to ensure that SJ staff are properly employed?
i-Ko7mj3vTGwo2hF8c2u7nr3	Madam President, I would like This is an issue that lies under the responsibility of Minister for Enterprise Karl-Petter-Petter Thorwaldsson, since SJ is a state-owned company. And it is clear that he has had a dialogue with SJ as owner to ensure that the company makes the necessary efforts to overcome the problems that have arisen as a result of SJ's personnel system. I think that SJ has been very unhappy about this with the consequences it has had for the working environment and also for travellers who have suffered from this. It is the company's responsibility to deal with this, and I assume that it does. The government has to maintain a regulatory framework that applies to all operators, not only SJ but MTR, Norrtåg and others. It is important that we also act in a way that is general. But of course, in an ownership dialogue there has been a discussion where SJ has had to explain what efforts should be made to address the problems in the state company.
i-TCRYz4cYah2WK3bB781dZw	Madam President, I would like I just want a clarification. Does the government therefore consider that the owner of a limited liability company is not responsible for the situation of its staff? This is a situation for which it was warned. How informed is the government of such changes? And do you think the yield requirement can affect how you handle your staff at SJ?
i-WsMB1VZecPjTQgLouajBk6	Madam President, I would like I do not believe that the return requirement is crucial for which personnel management system is implemented within SJ or within any other company. Here was certainly the starting point from the company to find a well-functioning system that could mean better planning. It did not go well; I think everyone has been able to say that. It is the company that has this responsibility. We cannot have a system in which it is the government that should govern in detail how a state company manages its personnel systems.
i-JGXJpHi19pSmhsfZ6or3CL	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Ygeman. The Olympic Games are about to begin, and we keep our fingers crossed because we get a clean game without doping. Doping is usually linked to sport but is mainly used by others than our athletes. A police officer recently observed: You can commit serious violent crimes without feeling anxious, and you get an increased aggressiveness. It will make it easier to carry out shootings, robberies or assaults. The police also often find doping drugs along with weapons and drugs in search of homes. Then the question is asked: Why and to what extent? There are many questions, but unfortunately there are few answers. I think one explanation for this is that we do not give priority to preventive doping.
i-DSBbauR7kA2waL7GGAyJYn	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Eklind for the question. We all bear a responsibility for clean sport, clean games and a clean society. We must therefore combat doping, both for the sake of pure sport and because of the negative social effects that Mr Eklind very well highlights. The government, together with the sports movement, is actively working against doping within the sports movement. It will, of course, continue. We also have an active job where the police are doing anti-doping work. Like Hans Eklind, doping drugs are found together with narcotics and with weapons. Although it is usually the narcotics that act debilitating, these preparations are also part of the gang shootings and the violence that we see in society.
i-FWJFoj8fL3vpgze9Ryzg5Q	Madam President, I would like One reason why this prevention is not a priority is seen when you start looking at what are called indicators to be able to follow the extent of doping in our society. When these indicators are both disadvantaged and inadequate, the strategies also become substandard, giving priority to this work on doping. That's the definite picture I get from those who work close to the problem. We don't even know how extensive doping is, but we're actually guessing.
i-GNondHNDvcAW427awrjtdc	Madam President, I would like This applies to most illegal substances. The extent that we can obtain through user surveys, wastewater studies and the like is and remains estimated. It must not cause us to give up work against either doping drugs or narcotics. I look forward to working with Hans Eklind and others committed to doping and for a clean sport and a clean society.
i-8srdjCZWHL9W61aJWzyvfX	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Ida Karkiainen. A large part of Swedish welfare is carried out in Sweden's municipalities and regions. And the Social Democratically led government contributed large amounts of state aid to increase the quality of Swedish welfare, both before and during the pandemic. Now we also know that we will have a demographic challenge in the future as we get fewer and fewer people to support more and more people.
i-B4ayCnE7YTsdaPm8pLNbq8	Madam President, I would like I thank Åsa Westlund for the question. This is a very urgent issue. As the honourable Member describes, the most central aspect of welfare – childcare, health care, school, social services and care for the elderly – is implemented by municipalities and regions. Therefore, since 2014, the Social Democratic-led government has ensured that municipalities will receive stronger general support and that the state will back them up so that you can deliver the welfare needed to all Swedish municipalities and regions. It has also been important, not least in view of the pandemic, to provide these general supplements. Since 2019, the government has contributed SEK 22 1⁄2 billion to the municipalities and regions to cope with, among other things, the pandemic.
i-MUamHfuyBt79aiqRBpi1c4	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, and I have a supplementary question. There are high expectations of equal welfare throughout the country. At the same time, the conditions for municipalities to be able to deliver such an equal welfare look very different. Would the Government be able to develop how the Government works to support those municipalities that have a particularly tough time living up to citizens' expectations of good and functioning welfare?
i-94yWAWU2Czq4DtW5Ym8Edm	Madam President, I would like I thank Åsa Westlund for the supplementary question. In addition to this historical investment in municipalities and regions through the general support for, among other things, welfare, we have also made a special investment of SEK 300 million per year to 2024 for municipalities that are in a particularly vulnerable situation. We have also established a municipal delegation that will distribute approximately SEK 750 million to municipalities that are struggling with specific challenges. The government is therefore doing a lot in this area.
i-Q2siXCafdi1kFyi2KvkvXt	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister Ygeman. It is about the problems that we see with lack of integration that make themselves known in different ways. One factor is exclusion, where Swedish society is bad at making demands. Parallel societies with their own jurisdiction, a customary law that is foreign to traditional Swedish values, are noticeable. Yesterday we could see Mission review on SVT from my home town of Borlänge, where the sossarna have been running since 1944. There, the municipal councillor has no other answer to what is to be done but to wear it on. Just continuing along the same path without change is no improvement. We see major socio-economic problems where the work line is not maintained and psychosocial factors where addiction and mental illness are allowed to increase. Finally, normative influence systems in the form of criminal networks and clan thinking are allowed to grow.
i-CdC1DMg6HaMqaUXn3ffwNX	Madam President, I would like It is a little unclear what Ulrik Bergman's question was, but I can assure Ulrik Bergman that we will turn over every stone to break the segregation and break the gangs. It is also about things that were initiated under the moderate-led government. Initiatives were taken for the world's most liberal labour migration, which has led people to come here and live under slave-like conditions. During the moderate-led government, initiatives were also taken to EBO, which leads to people being crowded and living in crowded housing – for example in Tjärna meadows in Borlänge. Now we are changing what the moderate-led government introduced. Now the segregation in Borlänge will decline, not thanks to the Moderates, but despite the Moderates.
i-XpHwsrNfEVWRAmADeHkdzM	Madam President, I would like The breakdown of immigration policy has now been going on for almost eight years with Social Democratic governments. The other day the news came that in the previous year alone, more than 10,000 cases were reported where foreigners to be expelled have been able to depart and go underground. The problem is not new, and the government has repeatedly expressed its wish to give priority to the issue. However, the astonishingly poor results remain: after eight years of social democratic governments, there are still not enough detention places or a political consensus on how to use them. The fact that the police are experiencing shortcomings in carrying out internal checks on aliens in a satisfactory way is not something that the government has addressed either. Can Minister Ygeman today announce that the Government intends to reconsider any previous resistance to the use of detention places or to how internal foreigner controls may take place and to what extent? It is about the deportation of those who are to be expelled from our country.
i-HG8WauCBcRCj3ApUPVkkgb	Madam President, I would like Let me just say at the outset that what Adam Marttinen calls astoundingly bad results is still better than in most countries where Adam Marttinen's fellow party members rule. Compare with Hungary! Compare with what it was like in Denmark! You can also compare with Finland, even if Adam Marttinen's party colleagues no longer rule there either. Compare the results, Adam Marttinen! I think the results in Sweden are too bad, but we are still fairly well off if we compare with other colleagues. You asked two questions, Adam Marttinen, and you will get answers to them: I am prepared to reconsider everything in order to achieve results. I'm ready to turn every stone around. I am prepared to say as it is, and I am prepared to do what is necessary to reverse developments. This also applies to the forms of internal foreign controls, and we have reformed them. We have increased the powers of the police. We have also doubled the number of detention centres, Adam Marttinen – since 2016 we have doubled the number of detention centres. We have also given an assignment to the Migration Agency to return with a plan for more places.
i-5z15NSfNrerqk4CkhbFwoZ	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Eneroth. We see not only an increase in electricity prices, but also an increase in fuel prices. One of the reasons for this is the political decision on reduction that we took last year. From a Christian Democrat point of view, we feel a great deal of concern when we look at how hauliers, farms and individuals who depend on cars are affected by the new price picture that has emerged. We have put forward a proposal to reduce interference, which would mean a reduction of SEK 3. The important thing here, however, is that, when the decision was taken, a notice was sent to the government that an evaluation should be made in 2022. My question to the Government is therefore: how quickly and how early are you prepared to come up with the evaluation? It is clear that we are being hit hard at the moment.
i-QwccBEcWcr6Jiu8sHGEV7E	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Magnus Jacobsson! Let me first of all state that there was a broad consensus in the House behind the reduction obligation; I believe that the Christian Democrats were also in favour of it. It is one of the tools we have to bring more biofuels into vehicles and reduce the climate impact of the transport sector. Together with the electrification that is now underway and where Sweden is the world leader, this obviously means that we have good opportunities to reduce emissions from the transport sector, and that is important. Of course, we are now taking forward what Parliament has requested, namely a reduction in taxes on fuel. The bill has been tabled. Of course, there will also be reasons to follow up, but in what order it takes place we will have to come back to.
i-XLW94knyPu5y5TcvavTDiZ	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister of Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth. For many, holding a driving licence means the freedom not to depend on anyone else and to be able to move from point A to point B. It also means freedom to be able to plan your own day and to have the opportunity to take a job elsewhere. Unfortunately, it has been discovered that there is fraud in driving tests and also that illegal training activities have increased. Cheating at driver tests is a criminal offence, and these people are a traffic hazard on our roads. Training without a permit is illegal, and people are being fooled by money, and they are beating the bones of serious companies. On 1 December 2021, the Government's new measures to stop black driving schools came into force. This decision was welcomed by many, especially the serious choir schools and the Swedish Transport Education Association. At the same time, we see that people and companies are still trying to circumvent the rules. My question is this: what steps will the government take in the further work to stop fraud?
i-3dXPF4WnNBpqJSFJZt9n4X	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a very good question, Abraham Halef! Black driving schools have been a scourge for the established driving schools, STR and others who want to conduct a good driver training course with trained staff that will give us a safe driving environment. Moreover, it is an activity that has often been associated with other crimes. That is why, in a number of measures, we have now tried to overcome black driving schools, and the fact is that we have decided today on further efforts: we can now turn off those who cheat at the tests, and we are increasing the penalties and tightening up the rules for those who practice illegal driving school activities. It is important to have a driving licence – and we have opened up for CSN loans and the like so that more people can get it – but it should be taken in a way that allows you to get a well-functioning education. Now we are tightening up the penalties and making sure to have tougher rules to stop the black driving schools.
i-M6MgYPJjmbWUzUPtWULSQz	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Secretary of Defense. Where Wagner is, there's not Sweden. There were quite a few parties that had a common position before the last bill, which also became the committee's, that it would have decisive consequences if Mali chose to bring the Wagner group into the country. We shall have an orderly withdrawal, as the Minister has said earlier today. But just how driving is the government in these groupings? The Minister would agree that we should not have Swedish soldiers fighting side by side with Russian mercenaries? Nor should we have Swedish soldiers who train a military junta's soldiers – a military junta who governs the country where no democratic elections can be seen in the foreseeable future.
i-8gXLFkCkMkQq4EZAE4Pp8c	Madam President, I would like There will never be a speech or a question of Swedish soldiers fighting side by side with the Wagner Group. It is a completely unreasonable statement, and I think it is most provocative to put that kind of point of view to me. In the framework of the coalition, we were among the first to react strongly to this situation. From the very beginning, at a meeting here in Stockholm, we raised these issues with the others in the area of o peration Takuba. On the other hand, Mali is a very large country with a large land area and various sectors. Just to leave in chaotic conditions – now I have not said that anyone has advocated it – would lead to huge crises. We are there to fight crime and terrorism. Currently, various scenarios for policy options are being developed in this difficult situation, and in this work Sweden is actively contributing.
i-X4oUi1nUwtG6v1zNRw7fta	Madam President, I would like Many people wonder what the stands will look like when the Swedish Cup in football starts in a few weeks. The season ended with a bitter atmosphere between parts of Football Sweden and the police. Clubs and supporters felt themselves subjected to collective punishment and unfair treatment. Stokes and fights do not belong in sport; that is what most people sign. The question is what the government is doing to ensure that the police remain within the framework of their activities and regulations. How is the safety of the stands ensured in 2022? Madam President, I would like What does Minister Ygeman, who is responsible for sport, do to ensure that we get a fresh start in the gallery and supporter culture?
i-HJ74BQHvN8jxbdMhazj2th	Madam President, I would like First, I want to say that I think we have one of the finest supporter and gallery cultures in the world. In few other places you can enjoy football matches, at least before the pandemic, with such singing and atmosphere in the stands as in Sweden. This is something we should take care of, and it is also something that we should not allow a few bad eggs to throw bangers or engage in violence in our stands to destroy. But for us to be able to have a good development, we need to have a better dialogue between the police, organizers and supporters. I only had yesterday a meeting with Svensk Elitsboll. I intend to have a corresponding dialogue with police representatives even if they do not fall under my responsibility in the government. My hope is that the 2022 season can be a fresh start for such a dialogue and such mutual responsibility for a good atmosphere in the stands and a nice Swedish gallery culture.
i-Y5hHKQfoFN9o6PBQHwHqQ3	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the best civilian minister Ida Karkiainen. Over the past few weeks, we have been told that the government will turn every stone around, that the Minister for Economic Affairs loves mines and that the Minister for Civil Affairs himself wants to see more sweaty councillors. With all this combined – stone, sweat and mines – how does the Minister of Civil Affairs ensure that more permit officers on county boards are also getting a little extra sweaty?
i-MS7VGNDm7jT35b7MypA9N4	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mrs Emilia, for an important and urgent question. Like the honourable Member lifts, I recently said, when I took office as Minister of Civil Affairs, that I want to see more sweaty councillors around the country. It is, of course, about the massive transformation and the massive planning of the establishment of the green jobs of the future that are taking place in northern Sweden. Several municipalities are now facing a huge change, including fossil-free steel production, battery factories and electric heavy trucks. This will reduce emissions and provide thousands of new jobs throughout the country. Here the county administrative boards play a key role, and there are many sweaty administrators already today. In their regulatory letter, the county administrative boards have been tasked with enabling the green transition at an even faster pace and therefore received a higher grant and been tasked with working with a more efficient supervisory process and for a uniform review.
i-7LcWuxNimHcjyJ4wYkD6cU	Madam President, I would like Since a few years back, Sweden has had military special units in place in Mali in the so-called Task Force Takuba. On Monday, Denmark announced that it also had about 90 soldiers in place to join the Task Force Takuba under Swedish command. However, on the same evening that Denmark announced this, the Malian military junta also announced that the Danes should go home and are undesirable in Mali.
i-Vam4Ezuy5GBiAPtS2qZHNq	Madam President, I would like A clear distinction has already been made with regard to the Malian Government, from the Takuba coalition, as far as the absurdity of this action is concerned. Then it may be that, when such events occur, it is also due to a broader scenario that has its explanation beyond Mali's borders. I shall not go further in any further reflection on that point. As far as Denmark's role is concerned, they are invited by the Malian Government. They have handled this entirely according to the regulations that exist, and it is deeply remarkable what is happening now. We don't accept it. This is, of course, part of the impact assessment that is now taking place and that we will come back with further information about in the not too distant future.
i-EKQRpxjwHt8jxFDA9BR98c	Madam President, I would like At last week's interpellation debate between Thomas Morell and Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth, the Minister argued that winter road maintenance is modern and efficient. The day after the debate, traffic stopped on the E20 at Finnerödja for about twelve hours. According to the media, the line with trucks was several miles long. The reason for the E20 stop was slipped. On the spot, professional drivers described it as sick. The infrastructure minister's description of the anti-slip approach is not consistent with the image that professional drivers gave of the situation. Madam President, I would like What measures does the Government intend to take in order for the Finnish Transport Administration to change its working methods and thereby ensure a good standard on the winter roads?
i-Gv7CsjsTR8XoFiyyKN294X	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jimmy Ståhl, for the commitment to winter maintenance! Let me say, for those who did not follow the interpellation debate, that it was in a context where the representative of the Swedish Democrats felt that the most important way to cope with winter road maintenance was to go out and inspect the roads on the ground to a greater extent. This was done in the 70's, and so do they to some extent even today, but now they also use modern technology with thousands of readers who sense and can give digital signals about how the temperature is on the roads. I think it's good that Trafikverket develops its methods of knowing which winter road maintenance efforts should be done, not least now that you have a collaboration with Scania, I think it is, where the vehicles report in real time how the conditions are on the road. Then the cars can communicate with each other, and you can get out faster with the right efforts. Then there will always be times when it is black and black, and then it is very difficult. The advice in such situations is to take it very carefully.
i-MXHR3xRcwWgtykB3nKNFcH	Madam President, I would like My question is to Minister of Defence Hultqvist, who was one of the first to point out, in 2013, here in Parliament, as chairman of the Committee on Defence, the safety risks of Russian nuclear fuel supplies to Sweden. Since then, a lot has happened, and we now have a further tightening up of the situation, in the words of the Prime Minister. It is known that Russia uses various means of power for pressure, including energy policy, energy supplies and strategic information on critical infrastructure. As Peter Hultqvist said in 2013: In Russia, foreign and security policy is often linked to energy policy. Rosatom is part of this arrangement. My question is how the Minister for Defence assesses this defence and security policy link to energy policy in today's sharpened situation, especially in the light of Sweden's increasing energy dependence on Russia with the trend break that Russian nuclear fuel was bought into Swedish reactors and we are thus giving out strategic information about critical infrastructure to Russia.
i-99zzxtf5KceNjYWeY1swEX	Madam President, I would like Of course, the entire Russian palette is connected to a whole, and this type of activity is also used for security policy purposes. This is what I wanted to highlight already in 2013. This is formally a matter for the company's management and board of directors, but Vattenfall has stated that they are currently purchasing fuel elements from several suppliers, and the company has a guiding principle not to commit to a supplier in order to secure the fuel supply. The company complies with existing regulations as well as the decisions made by Sweden and the EU to do business with other countries. I think it is good that this issue should come up and that it should be highlighted. There are many more areas that you can surely look at in this part. Everything is connected with the Russian strategy, and that is something that I think you should bring with you in the further work.
i-SnP3n8v8rEEG9PVLgfXN9n	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Infrastructure. Åkeriföretagen in Sweden is working to change. It is important that they feel that they have our support. To drive the smaller trucks, with which much of the transportation in our cities is handled, only a B driving licence is required. But the new fossil-free models have a higher weight because the batteries weigh more. Then all of a sudden you need a C driver's license. That's the kind of driver there's a shortage of. Three years ago there was an EU directive which allows for derogations if the truck is driven fossil-free. At the moment, there is a great deal of uncertainty on the part of the haulage companies, as the Swedish Transport Agency rejects the derogation, which many other countries have already put in place.
i-VZiMFo63iWJfVyKpoqDMGK	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Stockhaus, for the question. It is important because there is now a rapid conversion of the entire Swedish vehicle fleet. As I mentioned earlier, Sweden is one of the countries where most rechargeable cars and vehicles are sold. Even on the heavy vehicle side, a rapid development is taking place. It is clear that it is important that this can be done in the haulage industry as well. It has been a challenge when the weight of 3.5 tonne vehicles has increased as a result of the battery weight. This places other requirements on driver attestations because the vehicle is heavier and the risks are increased, for example in the event of accidents. We gave here a mission to the Swedish Transport Agency, which has refused to make such a change. The proposal is on the table, and we will continue to prepare it in the Government Office. I am keen that we should make a quick transition and that we should ensure that the Swedish vehicle fleet can be electrified. But, of course, it must be balanced against the preconditions of having a good and safe wagon fleet.
i-FvMSMGLSj9iVToCL9g1djZ	Madam President, I would like The train section Uppsala – Stockholm needs four tracks all the way. Every delay, every stop, is not only frustrating for us commuters but is also a smock against Sweden's economic development. This led to the agreement between the State and a number of municipalities and regions. Uppsala and Knivsta promised that the tracks would be in place in 2034 to build 48 500 homes, which is needed in the Swedish housing shortage. The Finnish Transport Agency has now presented its proposal for financing infrastructure up to 2033. There's not even a fifth of the money needed to make the four tracks fit. My question to Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth is therefore: How does the government act to ensure that Uppsala residents do not stand on the platform without these tracks coming into place?
i-RuDXTQ2WWggQBE794eH7S2	Madam President, I would like Gustaf Lantz! In fact, I had the privilege of presenting the four track project between Stockholm and Uppsala 18 years ago. It's an important bet. It is an important national initiative, but it is also important for the region, for the conditions for housing construction that it entails and for continued transport on Ostkustbanan and Norrbotniabanan. Now we are in a situation where we spend more money ever on infrastructure, not least on the extension of the rail system. The Finnish Transport Agency has made and presented a basis for the Government. I have made it clear that there will be changes on the part of the Government to the Swedish Transport Administration's proposal. Now we are in a situation where there are to be hearings and consultation procedures. In June, the government will come back and decide on the national plan.
i-MPhCovNLh16iUjWQJwAfuC	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Infrastructure. Jämtland County is one of three growth areas in Norrland with large migration and establishment of new, large companies. The strong tourism industry, combined with increased population and new business start-ups, places great demands on sustainable and viable transport infrastructure. However, the Finnish Transport Administration's proposal for the national plan does not propose a single new infrastructure object. That may seem very remarkable to you. It also runs counter to the intention of the infrastructure bill to make investments throughout the country. It does not seem to apply to the hinterland of Norrland and the growth region Jämtland Härjedalen. What is the Minister's comment on this and on the investments in the hinterland?
i-AaiaNWqcz23fsLBA9Lr7T7	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Saila Quicklund, for the question and commitment! As I said before, we are now spending more money than ever on infrastructure, nearly 900 billion. In addition, there are 437 billion in the so-called development allocation for new infrastructure, which allows for new investments on roads or railways. Among other things, the Moderates have proposed a saving and want to spend 30 billion less. The probability of getting investments in Jämtland, for example, would not increase if we were to have a moderate government, because you have chosen to prioritise less resources for infrastructure. As an independent authority, the Finnish Transport Agency has made its assessments and priorities. I have made it clear that there will be changes on the part of the Government to the Swedish Transport Administration's proposal. Consultation bodies and consultation procedures are now in place. In June, we will return with the Government's priorities in terms of continuing to properly strengthen the infrastructure throughout Sweden.
i-QKTu3KA2yqzbWcGkevBxdc	Madam President, I would like The climate crisis is real. Sea level elevations, species death and extreme weather are dramatic consequences. We need to do things in new ways to get rid of our oil addiction. In this transition, Sweden is far ahead. At the front is northern Sweden and my county of Norrbotten. Huge investments in new technologies have been announced. It provides both jobs and climate benefits. This would not have been the case if it were not because social-democratic politics has provided the conditions and indicated the direction. But now it is important that announced investments actually take place and that the positive spiral continues. The Government has commissioned the Finnish Transport Administration to analyse which infrastructure measures can be prioritised or added as a result of the establishment. In addition to earlier projects already included in the plan, the Finnish Transport Agency proposes additional investments on road and rail for over 9 billion.
i-P4c8HPrB4CdpABsSHVuAk4	Madam President, I would like Linus Sköld! That's absolutely right. It's a fantastic development. I remember when I once stood on the square in Trollhättan where worried car workers protested against the government's lack of effort for industry in Sweden. That was the starting point when we began to formulate what we called the new industrialisation strategy. The fruits of this we see now that we have a proper new industrialization, a green industrial revolution, in Sweden with large investments. If this development is to continue, with Hybrid, H2 Green Steel and Northvolt, we must follow up with infrastructure investments. That is the background to the fact that I commissioned the Swedish Transport Administration to specifically identify what more efforts need to be made in northern Sweden. Let's prepare those bases. When we decide on the national plan in June, we will also report on what further efforts can be made precisely to intensify infrastructure investments in northern Sweden. This is important, not just for northern Sweden. It is important for the whole of Sweden. It is a national priority that makes the whole country richer.
i-2vg2ULsD14RxQwPnHffvP9	Madam President, I would like My general political question goes to Tomas Eneroth. We are all proud of the Swedish labour market model. The fact that we have independent trade unions that can negotiate broad agreements for their members with employers has served the country well and has led to constructive contractual movements for many years. We are also proud that you can refrain from joining the union and negotiate your own agreements and salary. Something that makes me less proud is when I read that, according to the press, trade unions give direct orders on how a government should govern its policies. However, what I would like to ask is whether the government considers it compatible with Swedish labour market legislation that individuals may not be active in trade unions if they have the wrong party book, which I have also read in the press.
i-FkTF9wfAShEeNeSvjo6UCg	Madam President, I would like It is nevertheless gratifying to hear that Lotta Olsson thinks that the Swedish model and the trade union movement have been important in Sweden. You can't always believe that when you look at how the Moderates have acted. When they themselves were in government, they chose to make manslaughter against union organization, ranging from the abolition of the trade union fee to the deterioration of the unemployment fund or the social security system, which really damaged the degree of organization, the function and the ability of the trade union movement to operate. If this is a sobering up, we would welcome it. This government, and I hope not other governments either, will not go into the right of association or have views on how associations themselves choose to deal with their members. It is also a fundamental right and freedom that we have in Sweden.
i-TTC7ac9uYZxxVcPhLinzN8	Madam President, I would like Speaking of the Swedish model, we in Sweden will have a secure labour market where there is order and order. It is therefore very worried that we have virtually completely unregulated labour immigration. Unfortunately, we can see both work crime and poor working conditions for foreign workers. These can be very poor wages and inhumane living conditions, and human trafficking can also be suspected. This, of course, distorts competition between serious and rogue companies.
i-LqiZXwHrbbNmN6bK8ZHzG3	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Carina Ohlsson, for the question. The moderate-led government gave Sweden the world's most liberal labour migration. As a result, we have labour migration to sectors where there is no shortage or, on the contrary, there is a surplus of labour. Many who have come to Sweden in recent years may go unemployed. Many are forced to live in near-slavely conditions. Not only do we have a relative immigration to migrant workers, but there are no demands for livelihoods, thereby filling out the exclusion areas. We're gonna sort this mess out. We're going to make demands on binding employment contracts. We will also make demands for the livelihood of relatives. In addition, the Migration Agency will have tougher controls. We will develop the Act on Trafficking in Human Beings and Trafficking Crimes so that the sale of work permits becomes illegal.
i-8LCfQgCkBcYZGCTmMrmCWq	Madam President, I would like The Swedish automotive industry has a very clear ambition to reach the climate targets and to be climate neutral by 2040. Volvo Cars even has the ambition to be fully electrified by 2030. Now we hear serious rumors from Olofström in Blekinge, where Volvo Cars is southern Sweden's largest private employer. They claim to see a risk of having to leave the region but also Sweden if important infrastructure does not come into being so that companies can do their part in the important climate investment. They want to be able to take their transports from the road and move to the railway. It is therefore important for the previously promised South East Link to be in place. It is now missing from the Swedish Transport Administration's proposal for a national plan.
i-UwnUEzPLAC9BYfJKH5PYkX	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Åsa Coenraads, for the question! The effort on the South East Link is incredibly important. It was I, as Minister of Infrastructure, who chose to put the effort on the South East Link into the national plan. It was not included in the Swedish Transport Administration's original proposal to the government. Building railway from Älmhult via Olofström and down to Karlshamn is strategically right. It is important for Volvo in Olofström and for Ikea in Älmhult. It is important for the residents of the region but also for the prerequisite to be able to transfer more transport to the shipping from the port of Karlshamn. In addition, this means that it is possible to relieve traffic on the Southern Main Line. This is therefore an important national initiative. The Finnish Transport Agency is an authority that will make its own assessments and priorities, but I made it clear that the government will be able to make changes when we eventually decide on the national plan. Now I look forward to hearing several different proposals during the consultation procedure.
