i-VXsGyf1M46WT18CSHYeNPb	Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats requested this debate at the end of November last year. We saw a need to hold a debate on the elusive prices of electricity, which have recently meant excessive holes in people's wallets. We stressed in our request that the debate should deal with the government's management of energy supply, particularly as regards electricity prices, the root causes of development and the measures to be taken. Since we raised the issue, proposals to reduce energy taxes have been put forward in the Committee on Finance, while the government has presented an electricity price contribution based on the number of kilowatt hours spent per month. I think that the only responsible thing now is to pursue a realistic energy policy that can alleviate price shock in the short term. In the longer term, weather-dependent electricity generation must be matched with new planned production. I look forward to the debate.
i-BovQuhrqN9xmMevUrDVLF4	Madam President, I would like I thank you for the opportunity to come here and debate electricity prices. This is a topical issue that is of great importance to Sweden's citizens. For a long time, Sweden has had approximately the same electricity consumption. The market model we have had has also delivered about the same equivalent prices. Sweden's prices have been among the lowest in Europe, even in the exceptional months of this winter. But it is no consolation that we have among the lowest prices in Europe when households still suffer from very high prices, although it is important to remember what the world looks like. The electricity prices we have seen in the autumn and winter have been far too high. At those levels, we should not lie. Sweden has good and stable access to electricity. We've had that for many years. This is what has made up the fact that Sweden has consistently had lower prices than the rest of Europe. What, then, is the serious situation that we saw taking place in late autumn and winter throughout Europe? Of course, the European crisis that arose has many explanations. Many have called it a perfect storm, a mixture of several interrelated reasons. There has been a little lower water in the warehouses in the hydroelectric power plants, and it has blown slightly less. At the same time, economic recovery has caused many people in Europe to return to work and thus increased the use of electricity. But above all, it depends on Russia's action with the gas supply to Europe. This has led to an increase in prices in Europe. It's a market. When prices increase in a commodity, they increase in several parts of the market. As you all know, this is how it works in a market. I understand people are worried about their finances. We cannot accept the fact that a single parent or pensioner is greatly increased in electricity bills because Europe has an unsustainable dependence on Russian natural gas. If you live in Sweden, you should be able to rely on having access to good electricity at good prices, regardless of where you live. Therefore, a few weeks ago, the government announced that we are allocating about SEK 7 billion to provide support to the households most affected. It has been incredibly important that this money should be able to reach the people quickly. With this proposal – provided that Parliament's noble chamber adopts it – the money will be able to reach people already in March – April. There have been criticisms that the proposal could have been further tailored. Yes, I am the first to say that we could have tailored this system in detail. But then the money had not reached the people in March – April but considerably much later. This support means a maximum of SEK 2 000 per month for December, January and February, i.e. a total of SEK 6 000. This sum goes to them with a consumption exceeding 2 000 kilowatt hours, which is roughly what is consumed in a normal large villa. The aid also reaches considerably further down, to those with significantly smaller properties and less electricity use. We will meet the climate challenges and enable the green industrial transition. We will create more jobs and have growing communities throughout the country. Then we also need to significantly increase our electricity generation, both in the short term and in the long term. That is why the government yesterday presented an electrification strategy with 67 concrete measures for the next three years, which I shall return to.
i-PdDsv8aFmfKaurrvdo5aAj	Madam President, I would like This winter many people have struggled with sky-high electricity bills. Perhaps families with children with small margins and a great many pensioners have had the worst. When I spoke to 73-year-old Christer from Skåne a few months ago, he expressed despair. Half his pension would go to pay the electricity bill. I'm afraid he's not alone. During this winter, electricity prices have opened holes in thousands of people's wallets. Many people find it very difficult to pay their electricity bill. Madam President, I would like I mean no one should have to turn off their element or stop showering or vacuuming when it's cold in winter. Sweden is not a developing country. This can't be Sweden in 2022. Then why are we here? There are, of course, several reasons, but the main one is the failure of the government and the Social Democrats in their energy policy. In recent years, the Social Democrats have closed down four well-functioning nuclear reactors. It's not just capital destruction of gigantic dimensions. It also affects households through very high electricity prices. The other day, research was presented showing that electricity prices had been somewhere between 30 and 45 percent lower in southern Sweden if the two Ringhal reactors were not closed as a result of political decisions. Here, Madam President, the Social Democrats, the Left Party, the Center Party and the Green Party have a huge responsibility. In this House, we voted two years ago by 174 votes to 175 in favour of a proposal not to decommission the reactors. The proposal therefore did not receive a majority. Now we're where we are. Madam President, I would like In Germany, which has done just as much as the Social Democrats want, nuclear power is now being phased out at cruising speed. The result is Europe's highest electricity prices. In addition, emissions are increasing because of the dependence on both coal and Russian gas. In December, the Moderates presented a proposal to compensate all households. We do not think it is reasonable for the state to make huge profits in a record cold winter, and that is why this money should go back to the households. I'm glad the government acted and saw a need. But it would not have happened if the Moderates and other opposition parties hadn't pressed on. My problem with the government's proposal is that not all households are allowed to benefit from the compensation, and it is not a question of making things quicker, but of the government not wanting to compensate everyone, such as pensioners in apartments.
i-8zjWCUB3YBY3X5fYSedX8a	Madam President, I would like With the government and the Social Democrats, energy policy has completely failed. During a large part of government ownership, they have given the Green Party disproportionate influence, and we have seen the forced closure of well-functioning nuclear reactors, tax charges affecting the competitiveness of cogeneration and a slow-going effort to shorten licensing processes in order to expand transmission capacity. People around the country are now forced to live with the consequences of this policy. Electricity is produced to a lesser extent when we need it, and in southern Sweden, after these closures, there is a severe production shortage of electricity. It is dirty coal power and Russian natural gas that sets the price instead of fossil-free Swedish nuclear power. Sweden has recently experienced the highest electricity prices ever. In December they were four times higher than in December 2020. In southern Sweden, electricity prices have been record high since the summer. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats highlighted early this autumn the need to reduce the energy tax on electricity in order to at least alleviate the consequences of the high electricity prices. Unfortunately, all the other parties said no to this. Instead, the government chose to wait for the completion of the fact before interest in doing anything about the symptoms of its own policy was aroused. In the long term, neither subsidies nor abolished taxes can compensate for the energy policy pursued, because the Social Democrats have put Sweden in a situation with which we will have to live for a transitional period. Swedish industry's competitiveness and Swedish jobs will be as dependent on the weather as Karl-Oskar-Oskar and Kristina were in the 1800s. We see people who cannot afford to heat up their homes or choose to turn off their water heater because the electricity is too expensive. Instead, what was pushed to test the Green Party's dreams of energy policy has become the brusque awakening of many from a nightmare. This development is totally unacceptable and not worthy of a modern welfare country. Our electricity supply, which has been fossil-free, secure and reasonably priced for a long time, has been destroyed by the policy pursued. This development must be broken, and Sweden therefore needs a new government.
i-XCjeyw7frErXNEgUqHsKyn	Madam President, I would like Yes, winter has meant strong increases in electricity prices, and many Swedish households have been financially affected. The main reason for this, regardless of the political views of this House today, is that the high prices of natural gas have spilled over into Europe. This is what the researchers, industry and the Swedish authorities say. It does not matter what one thinks as politicians in this House; these are the facts. Strong action is needed to deal with these effects so that we do not have to repeat them. We need action in the short and long term. Not least, we need to ensure that fossil fuels are phased out and that Russian action cannot have such a major impact on Swedish electricity consumers. As the only party, the Center Party predicted that electricity prices could be high during the winter and took the top of its budget. We proposed strong support for both households and businesses so that they could make energy efficient and reduce their electricity costs. Direct-acting households, old oil boilers, poor heat pumps and poorly isolated houses would have been helped if the Center Party's budget had been passed. Fortunately, it's not too late. This proposal is still workable. If the government returns in the spring change budget, there is plenty of time to make investments before next winter. Both safety policy assessors and electricity price assessors say that Russian gas prices are likely to last. Putin will use the means of power he has, and fossil gas is a very important one. We also need action in the long term. We need a lot of new production cheaply and quickly. Investors are already waiting to build, not least wind power. Let them do it. Help to gain local acceptance by allowing those affected to be replaced, not just the landowners. Let the property tax go back to the municipalities affected so that it becomes profitable and attractive to have power generation in the backyard regardless of the power source. Solve the compensation issues for the electricity grid and use new technologies that make it low-ground. Also make sure that the defense uses the technology available so that you can say yes. Swedish power grids need to build more and more ground-efficient. Above all, clear the bureaucratic jungle. There are countless things to do that are basically quite simple only will in government and parliament exists. We in politics must give priority to change, competitiveness and the climate. The Center Party is prepared to do so. The question is whether there are also other parties who are prepared to stand up.
i-QJdApvzktYt44YhSVpyJ9U	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the initiators of this debate on high electricity prices. My and the Left Party's analysis of why Sweden has ended up here is, however, another one, although some things obviously affect the whole. Madam President, I would like I have been in Parliament since 2014 and have received angry calls, letters and emails about electricity grid charges, and I am probably not the only one. But now there is information and frustrated emails about how the electricity bill eats up household budgets. It is not fun for a family or pensioner with small margins to be forced to conjure their knees and cut down on everything else in order to be able to pay the monthly electricity bill. Sweden exports just over 10 per cent of its electricity production. Why is it that our price of electricity is suddenly infected by the German? The whole basis for this safety policy failure is the government's efforts to privatise and liberalise the electricity market and to link it with a privatised and liberalised EU market. This means that southern Sweden's electricity prices are determined by German electricity prices, which in turn are entirely dependent on Russian gas. Best listener out there! With the policy of ceasing control over infrastructure and energy supply, we have created a situation in which, despite the fact that we manage electricity supply within the country, we have become dependent on and vulnerable to foreign interests. Our electricity price today depends entirely on state-controlled Russian gas. There will be a kind of weapon in the hands of Putin and one of Sweden's biggest security policy failures. If we are to get out of this situation, we need to take back control of energy policy and re-regulated electricity exports. We must therefore abandon this market experiment and set up a parliamentary crisis commission to re-organise the electricity market. According to the Government's own national energy policy targets, Sweden – this can be clearly read – will combine ecological sustainability, competitiveness and security of supply in a security policy acceptable way. It's time it did. We will propose adding a fourth target: affordable electricity prices for households. We cannot have a market where the government does not accept the market price and therefore pays the customers' bills. It falls on its own absurdity.
i-7LJbC5S81rqSkzkaumzkNX	Madam President, I would like The reason for the high electricity prices right now is an extremely important reminder that we cannot take the electricity system for granted. Sweden was one of the countries that was first electrified in Europe. We expanded our electricity grid and have long benefited from the decisions that meant that instead of having electricity rationing, we could use cheap and almost fossil-free electricity, i.e. hydropower and nuclear power, and thus become a welfare country to trust. If we look in the rear-view mirror, we see that the energy policy pursued in recent years has been quite harmful. A total of four nuclear reactors have been shut down in the last two mandates without any new reactor being added. The plans that existed to build Ringhals 5 and 6 put the first government Löfven a wet blanket over and stopped. When the state-owned company Vattenfall chose to take Ringhals 1 and 2 out of operation, we Christian Democrats made it clear on a number of occasions that there should be an impact assessment of what it would mean and that the government should provide a ownership directive to have them in operation at least until other things are in place. But even this was not what the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Left Party or the Green Party wanted to look further at. We now see the consequences: families with children such as co-sover, electricity customers who need payment plans and industries that need to give notice or postpone investments. But were the reactors not completely decommissioned under market conditions, Madam President? No. The former energy spokesperson of the Green Party has told us how active political work by the government has contributed to the early decommissioning of nuclear power. We have also been able to take note of the government's explanation of the excessive electricity prices: that they are largely due to Russia pulling the hand brake when it comes to delivering natural gas to Europe. That is certainly true, but it is because Germany has shut down fossil-free nuclear power, which makes them dependent on natural gas and coal. It will be inconsistent to think when the government at the same time says that the high electricity prices are not due to the premature closure of the Swedish reactors. In a research report from Energiforsk presented this week, we got it black and white: If Ringhals 1 and 2 had not been closed, electricity prices would now be 30 – 45 percent lower. I wouldn't have to tell you what I said. ..................................................... The result of the government's energy failure is clear. The closures of reactors and the absence of forward-looking energy policies have contributed to the run-off of electricity prices.
i-2QrxLtBCBTXNj8Q2r6ykbw	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Christian Democrats for initiating this important debate. In recent months, the run - out electricity prices have made it not uncommon for the electricity bill to triple and increase by thousands of dollars from one month to another. People are forced to take bank loans to pay the electricity bill. The government is now panicking with a one-off grant to households with high electricity bills. This is understandable as the government's failed energy policy is about to cost the Social Democrats power. But the one-off grant is a lottery. Only one third of Sweden's 4.8 million households can expect to receive a grant. Tragic is that the subsidy will be used by households to afford to repay the State's excise duty on electricity. Not only that – some households also win big prizes in the lottery. The government's support model allows around 30 per cent of eligible households in northern Sweden to receive an electricity grant that is higher than the additional cost of their electricity use. In southern Sweden, barely 11 per cent are making the same big profit. Moreover, the government's one-off contribution is a short-term measure that does not solve the problems in depth. We will have to pay high electricity prices for a long time to come. This is a consequence of Sweden's long-term pursuit of an unsustainable energy policy in which reliable nuclear power has been phased out and replaced by weather-dependent electricity generation. When the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Green Party and the Left Party voted against maintaining the Ringhals 1 and 2 nuclear reactors, 13 terawatt hours of electricity were removed. A new report from Energiforsk confirms this and shows that the prices in southern Sweden would have been between 30 and 45 percent lower if the planned production remained. It is therefore an enormous responsibility of the Social Democrats for the electricity crisis. By closing nuclear power, the red-green parties have put our country in a position of high electricity prices and increased emissions. Not only can households be charged with terrible electricity prices, but to cope with cold winter days when there is no wind, Sweden now has to import dirty electricity from the continent or burn oil in Karlshamnsverken. Madam President, I would like The solution is not simple. I will come back with more solutions in my next speech, but three strong measures that I can reveal right now are to reduce electricity tax permanently for all of Sweden's 4.8 million households, to enable the construction and redevelopment of planned electricity production and, above all, to change government.
i-7ibHkNEjp6DSdNtuvcJF9j	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to welcome the Minister for Energy – at least this is the first time I have met him in this House. Madam President, I would like Europe suffers from dependence, you might say. More precisely, it is an energy dependence, and the drug is fossil gas and uranium. The symptoms are power-political risks and, as we have seen in this winter, record high electricity prices. It has hit the continent, that is, Europe, very hard, but prices have also infected Sweden, especially southern Sweden, as a chain reaction. It has hit households and industry hard. A lot of people in here think that it's enough with a little patch on the wounds and a little support here and now. And yes, right now it is necessary because prices have been extreme, but it is incredibly naive to think that it would be sufficient and sustainable over time. What is really needed instead, now and in the long term, is a release from energy dependence. This can and should be done in two different ways. Firstly, stop the expensive waste of energy, introduce a statutory duty to streamline – it should apply to every energy company in this country – and free industries and households from the cost of unnecessary waste! But also make direct efforts here and now, for example, to immediately introduce support for those who want to get rid of their direct-acting electricity and switch to more energy-efficient ways of heating their house. This is good for household wallets, but it is also a big effort to make Sweden's impact balance better. Secondly, develop renewable electricity generation, both locally in the form of solar cells on roofs and sustainable cogeneration and solar heat, and – and above all – by building offshore wind power along our long and windy coastline. Anyone who knows something about the energy issue in Sweden knows that if we are to have large volumes of new electricity generation in the near future, the sea-based issue is the one that applies. Let me be clear, Madam President, now that elections are approaching: here we have a great dividing line in Swedish politics. We have on one side those who welcome the new developments, which welcome sea breezes along the coast that do not disturb either biodiversity or people in their daily lives. On the other side, we have the blue-brown right that puts all its power on stopping this development. Today there was news of a battery factory in Gothenburg. Amazing, 3,000 new jobs! But the electricity cannot reach if the right continues to stop offshore wind power along the coast. We need this energy to lower electricity prices and to enable Sweden to cope with the energy issue in the future.
i-KZSgd4pVf5h6ddufM1889T	Madam President, I would like The opposition has during the autumn and winter talked about support for households. There has been talk of tax solutions and other things. Now that we are delivering a solution, which actually reaches those who have incurred increased costs due to increased electricity consumption and who, unlike what has been proposed by the opposition, reach households already in March or April, they are suddenly opposed to it. What does the opposition really want? Should households have support during this exceptional period or not? You may have to go to your Chamber and discuss it for yourself and then come back and say what you want. When it comes to nuclear power, there has been some discussion as to whether the closure of nuclear power by the market on market grounds would have affected current prices. I note that there are various research reports. Sweco stated a while ago that there had been no significant price change or impact. Now there is another report that says otherwise. I understand that it is difficult to count on these things. However, one thing we can nevertheless say – those are the facts – and that is that every time we have seen a research report that has pointed out in advance what nuclear power will cost, we have consistently counted about half or a third of what nuclear energy actually costs to get into place. We saw this in Finland, and their new reactor will mean two to three times higher prices of electricity than electricity from Swedish wind power. The new reactor in Flamanville, France, with all new safety requirements, supplies electricity that is up to seven times more expensive than electricity from Swedish wind power. The same research reports also tend to show that Swedish wind power is very expensive. But once it's in place, we'll see that it's actually really cheap. I think it's a good place to know that there is no free lunch– there are no free lunches. If you are going to bet on the most expensive solution, someone will have to pay for it. Who are you going to pay for this? Should Swedish households pay higher prices just because you – if it is ideological or something else – love nuclear energy per se? Nuclear power has a capacity to deliver a lot of electricity – absolutely – and it is planable. But it is very expensive, and this cost must be taken by someone. Nuclear power is also not a solution here and now, because it takes decades to get it in place. Wind power can be put in place quickly, and it supplies a lot of electricity and is cheap. But it's not planable. In the 1980s it was believed that the only way to move music was to have cassette tapes in Walkman Walkman. A lot has happened since then. For those of you who have not discovered it, it is the same in the energy market. Nowadays, energy can be stored in fuels, such as hydrogen, in order to be able to use it and get planning in wind power. This creates opportunities for too much electricity in place quickly and cheaply for households and Sweden's competitiveness.
i-CEehS87A7kVBuC6Yvxgxrs	Madam President, I would like This was one of the most arrogant things I have heard in a long time in this House. It was arrogant to those who now have problems paying their electricity bills and arrogant to those who understand something about energy policy. The fact that we have a new Minister for Energy who says that wind power will be hugely cheap and that nuclear power is very expensive is in fact under any criticism. I will not go further into that debate, but I am surprised. I have two brief questions for the Minister. One is: why can not everyone be compensated when a proposal is now being made to compensate households? Why is it that we do not want to compensate pensioners as well as social democratic ministers who live in a villa? Wind power will solve the energy supply of the future," says the Minister for Energy. My second question is: does the Minister seriously mean that wind power itself will solve all the challenges we now have to double the electricity for 2040 and bring down household prices?
i-JhiNesVDkngekqR95wdyYD	Madam President, I would like I thank Elisabeth Svantesson for the question. Let me just say that Sweden's future energy solution is not a quick fix. It is not just nuclear power or just wind power that is the solution. Yesterday I and the government launched a whole electrification strategy that takes a holistic approach to the energy system of the future. It is about production, electricity grid capacity, smart grid systems, flexibility, district heating strategy, getting support services in the system and valuing them and much more. It's not a quick fix. Unlike you, we have a solution to this. When it comes to support for households, we think it is reasonable for those households that have had the greatest cost increases to benefit from the support. Unlike the solution put forward by the Moderates, I note that most of the money with our solution does not disappear to those who have had the absolute highest income and the highest consumption in the large villas with swimming pool and glazed porch. They can probably pay for this themselves. Our solution reaches where it is needed.
i-S8UWxfZJwto3hpwDXbgPXP	Madam President, I would like I can only say that the Social Democrats are far from reality when they do not see that many people, not just those living in a villa, are now hit by high prices. But I will leave this because we have different opinions on this particular issue. Nevertheless, I am pleased that there is now support, although I would like to see it in a different way. I didn't get an answer about wind power. Nevertheless, the Minister has been out saying that it will be the solution for future energy consumption. I see many advantages of wind power, but I also see major problems. So it is not always as it blows. It's a pretty important and essential thing. It does not create stability in the electricity grid. If you are an energy minister, you should not fool the Swedish people but say as it is: This is a great challenge. How does the Minister think that wind power, as it says in Today's Industri, will solve the energy supply of the future? Does the Minister for Energy mean this seriously? In that case, we will have to return to this House every year for many years to come and talk about the high electricity prices. The energy system will not be able to cope with wind power alone. Nuclear power will be needed. It is not a quick fix, but it needs nuclear power.
i-83WP4P4cA11gwzCgvJUXx6	Madam President, I would like We can agree that nuclear power is not a quick fix. It takes at least 16 years in Finland to get a single reactor. I note that offshore wind is now planned outside Sölvesborg, corresponding to two reactors, which will be in place within eight years. It is quite correct that it will not always blow. However, unlike in the 1980s, there are actually solutions to store energy in fuel and to have support systems and support services and to have balancing power in the system. That's the difference. On the other hand, I am not against nuclear power. We have nuclear power, and unlike Germany, we are certainly not going to phase it out prematurely. Many countries envy our situation. I don't think wind power is the only way forward. I believe that wind power will play an important role. We will continue to have hydropower as the backbone of Swedish electricity production. We will have wind power, and we will have nuclear power for the foreseeable future. But if there is to be new nuclear power, someone has to pay for it. And so far, no one is prepared to do so.
i-J5Ras9xKqMTkknq1nygoBZ	Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats have been directly dependent on the Green Party during their government ownership, which has led to the closure of several well-functioning nuclear reactors, the introduction of taxes that have affected the competitiveness of cogeneration and the slowness of the work on licensing processes. There we can see that even hydropower has been under continued pressure without anything being done. So they have the cape aimed at adjustable and planned power generation to spend all their money exclusively on weather-dependent power generation. At the same time, a broad energy agreement is currently lacking. But within the opposition, there is a rather collated picture of what needs to be done. Madam President, I would like The question, therefore, is whether the Social Democrats are prepared to settle an energy policy without giving the Green Party influence or whether they will continue along this path.
i-RkN9U7NoqCLjvStrTmQtA9	Madam President, I would like I grew up in Norrbotten, and that brings some things – among other things, that you love hydropower, and I really do. I believe that it is one of the most important parts of our energy production and that it will be for an extremely long time to come. As far as broad agreements are concerned, it is also a Norrbotten attitude that agreements actually apply. We have a broad energy agreement that many parties in this House have supported but later have chosen to leave. What do agreements with parts of the opposition mean when the next day they can turn around and leave? For me as a northern resident, it is quite clear that a handshake applies, but obviously it does not apply to the opposition. So settle up internally in the opposition! When you're ready to make a deal, we'll talk about it, but so far, you don't seem to be.
i-38qPspBh9XDKLxZUAFMSqB	Madam President, I would like It may include interested parties in that case; the Swedish Democrats have not been part of that energy agreement. We don't have a problem with that. We're happy to settle it. One problem that is recurring is the policy that the government is pursuing. I do not think it impresses me at all with the list that is included in the electrification strategy; it has completely destroyed our power system and made it weather dependent. After all, it is not the craftsman who has failed to renovate the house and stands with shortcomings that should be used to solve the shortcomings that have arisen – with the same medicine that has created the deficiencies from the very beginning. This is all about understanding. Hydrogen can certainly be used to store energy, as was the case with the Government, but then nearly four times as much energy is needed to make it planable. It would breach the objectives of energy efficiency. The question is, Madam President: do the Social Democrats not understand what the problem is with an excessively weather-dependent power system for Sweden as an industrial nation?
i-3q2Hda3973t2mqKcaYYYbt	Madam President, I would like There is a risk that this House will have to repeat itself and, often, what research says. In the 80's it was believed that the only way to get planned energy in southern Sweden was nuclear power, and that was probably true then. But now there are completely different systems. There is flexibility and smart grids, and we have power and district heating systems that can help create balance and stability. We have storage in fuel – hydrogen is an example of this – that can be used to balance the system. I'm not saying we should have a weather-dependent electrical system. What the Social Democrats and the Government want is for us to have an energy system that is sustainable, and sustainability means not only ecology and that energy is clean, but also that the system actually delivers all the time – year round and on all days of the year. Then you have to have a system in place that actually does, and it is not just simple, fast energy modes that determine. It is the whole energy system that is the foundation.
i-TaLiSG6PhPoNP4tUpEzMNZ	Madam President, I would like The government has made a contribution to people's electricity bills, regardless of how high the electricity bill has been. Some even seem to benefit from the situation. At the same time, of course, I understand the political need for these measures, and I understand that the government is doing this. That's good! The big question, however, is: Can you expect the same help next winter? The government has not put forward a single proposal – not a crown – to ensure that this does not happen to households again. Support in line with what the Center Party has put forward for energy efficiency is much less costly and helps incredibly much more to ensure that this does not happen again. Can the Social Democrats support such proposals?
i-QtsExjRyk2rGbN1vEQxZD	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Rickard Nordin! We agree that energy efficiency is important. That is why there were energy efficiency measures in the budget that the government – technically speaking the previous government – put forward in this House. They then chose the right-wing conservatives in the Chamber to remove. Whether they come back in future budgets is too early for me to say, but let me be clear that energy efficiency is also an important part of the electrification strategy for how to achieve our electrification objectives. I do not share the view that nothing has happened to prevent this situation from repeating itself. Swedish power grids presented a long list of measures that in the short term will increase electricity grid capacity to avoid this situation next winter. They are working very hard on this list already now and are about to deliver a number of short-term measures alongside the long-term work. Several measures will be taken.
i-AehtWa7CHGdqRrKKRr6ckM	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. The problem with the previous government's budget was that it concerned support measures for multi-residential buildings, i.e. apartments – those that do not receive a range of what the government is now delivering in support. Those households with poorly insulated walls and old heating solutions would have received zero SEK in energy efficiency support from the government, but they are the ones who need it. This is where it would make the greatest difference, both for the electricity system as a whole and for the national economy and the individual household. There is a complete lack of solutions to this from the government. It refers to the Swedish power grid, and yes, there is a lot to do there. But that will not be close enough on the day we continue with high gas prices. Will the government make proposals to enable households to make energy efficiency improvements in the coming year?
i-2mXJ2yLLqdAag1diB4Jp7K	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. Let me come back to the answer I gave earlier: it is too early for me to stand in the Chamber and say what action will be presented in future budgets, but we agree that energy efficiency is an important part, whether in multi-detached buildings, villas or even in simpler industries. However, I will say that Swedish power grids are already doing a great deal of that work and that I actually think they will be able to influence the situation for the better by next year. I missed answering the honourable Member's first question in his first reply. No, Swedish households cannot count on us to come up with another measure like this. For households, energy efficiency, whether paid for by themselves or by the state, and reviewing their contracts will continue to be the best way to keep their energy costs down. It is really my invitation and my contribution to Swedish households: Review those opportunities!
i-SXNS7TucktxmLWDNycQ99y	Madam President and Minister Farmanbar! I've been trying to learn the name so I don't pronounce it crazy. We had a saying in the woods when I was working on harvesting. We used to say, "Worry fresh wood is on the hill." Now I can say that a smoking fresh document came out yesterday, namely the electrification strategy. I imagine you might have had some luck there, the Government, because the debate was delayed. I will of course admit that I have not had time to read the entire document, because it came out yesterday, but I tried to read through the shorter version. What I miss in that version – it can be found in the long document, which I just said I haven't had time to read – are the pieces that prevent the construction of renewable energy is the defence and how to overcome the municipal veto that is about municipalities not getting enough of the values created in the municipalities. You write a little bit about facilitating electrification or something like that, Minister, but is there any answer to this?
i-JHeVuiJ76MJgJjjg3S2VEU	Madam President, I would like Let me start with the last thing Mr Birger mentioned, namely the incentives for municipalities. There is a section in the electrification strategy to explore how to find good incentives for municipalities that run on, for example, wind power and renewable energy sources. It will be very important to continue working on this. We recently received an investigation into the abolition of the municipal veto. The investigation does not propose this, but this particular case is now being prepared in the Government Office. So I'll have to come back later on how we stand about it. On the other hand, when it comes to an incentive model for municipalities, we agree that this will be necessary. When it comes to the Swedish Armed Forces, environmental tests and other things that can make it difficult for offshore wind power, it is a work that is ongoing. We need to ensure that the obstacles are precisely eliminated – which I also believe is literally the concept used in the electrification strategy.
i-YRXzCZPYbBHKTwt4nu35r8	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I quote a little: a strengthening of incentives for municipalities to allow the establishment of wind power. Does that basically mean what I am looking for, namely that there must be incentives that are economic? It is usually weak municipalities that have these establishments. I understand that the municipal veto will not be abolished; that majority is not in Parliament. I usually count myself how much a penny per kilowatt hour would mean to a municipality, because they get nothing. The land infringement allowance is completely fine, but the municipality in which the establishment takes place does not receive much besides the jobs. Can incentives mean something like what I'm implying?
i-GJ97wZ3Kr5nWZzpn4Ha1FQ	Madam President, I would like It is important that we create acceptance for new types of energy. We're all in the same boat. Our country will make progress and continue to be a leader and have low electricity prices in order to be competitive. For this to exist, there must be acceptance in order to build the types of energy that we need. I have a great understanding of people and municipalities who can get annoyed that it sounds from, for example, wind turbines or that they are not aesthetically appealing. But if we can create a good incentive model – an economic or financial variant, as Birger Lahti mentioned, or of some other kind – I think that together we can see that we are moving more and more in the same direction.
i-12rqfFbMLjpYfQNTRhTWHr	Madam President, I would like The government is happy to talk about that we should have a policy that makes Sweden stick together, but with the government's proposal you manage to put different groups against each other. In my view, it's a little tricky to give subsidies for people to be able to afford to pay the tax. This is a grant that the government spends SEK 7 billion on. It should be remembered that the state via Swedish power grid brought in 21 billion last year on the so-called bottleneck revenues. In addition, the state-owned company Vattenfall yesterday reported a super-profit of SEK 48 billion and proposed a dividend to the Treasury of SEK 23.4 billion. With this in mind, there are many with me who wonder why it receives for the government to reduce energy tax for everyone. After all, the problem of high electricity prices will not be resolved in the coming years.
i-NCe4tjHMzSM3H5LFdEa9L3	Madam President, I would like After all, as an exceptional measure in an exceptional period of time, the aid for electricity compensation has been built up to reach those who have experienced the greatest increases. There we have set a ceiling, unlike what applies to, for example, the tax model on which Camilla Brodin was involved. Those who are already well off do not need to receive more of this support. Therefore, there is a ceiling of 2 000 kilowatt hours, which corresponds to a normal large villa. Therefore, there is also a floor, because it is not in the apartments that the biggest consumption increases have taken place, although I fully understand that prices have increased even for them in apartments. We have also done a lot for target groups who live in an apartment. In the budget adopted by this House with a slight adjustment, there are increased pensions, increased housing allowances, increased pension allowances and a lot of other things directed specifically at these households. This aid is aimed at those who have actually experienced the greatest increases. These are single houses, semi-detached houses, terraced houses and villas, which are also heated.
i-H5QBP8hH6xLxcMAjrEW7zc	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer, which shows that this proposal for a grant has not been understood. People can actually go plus even though they have had a higher consumption. It is clear that the energy policy pursued has been detrimental to Sweden and has contributed to the high electricity prices. If we are to cope with climate change and gain stability and security of supply in our electricity system, we need a clear plan and political will. The government has actively contributed to the decommissioning of reactors and thus also affected the market. Has recent events perhaps given the government better thought when it comes to reconsidering the energy target from 100 per cent renewable to 100 per cent fossil-free? We see that this is the most cost-effective when in the future you have an electricity system that includes both nuclear power, hydropower and wind power. This would be a political will to meet climate objectives and also bring down electricity prices.
i-BUUYvWa2D4zQKRZpM9Ws6r	Madam President, I would like I would like to present some facts worth mentioning. The 100% renewable target adopted by this House is precisely an objective. There's no stopping date. Should it be agreed that some of our existing nuclear power plants actually last longer than that, there is nothing in that decision that prevents them from continuing. I have been very clear in all the interviews that I am very concerned about our existing nuclear power plants. They should not be laid down prematurely, and we should not do as Germany does. If, on the other hand, they are getting so incredibly expensive that someone has to pay to maintain them – so that it might be more expensive for electricity consumers to buy electricity from them because of the high electricity costs – owners will have to take responsibility for it and see how they want to do it. Somewhere, however, one must look out in the real world and see that we are living at a time when Europe is going through its biggest electricity price crisis ever. In this exceptional situation, Sweden has still had low prices, although they were too high. The fact that Sweden would have a worse energy policy than anyone else is simply not true.
i-J1nvX8pRNN559pEYE9hoXv	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his first speech. After all, to be a form of compensation, or electricity subsidy, to households, accuracy is rather bad when it comes to meeting the households that may be most affected. Of course, we have large households and villas that have had an exceptional increase, but those who are most affected – young people, pensioners, single people and entrepreneurs – and who have really been affected by the high electricity prices, must not take part in this electricity subsidy. After all, there are 3 million households who will not be able to take part in it. How does the Government view the future? The electricity crisis that we are now going through – and the high electricity prices – is nothing that is here and now, but this will continue for a long time to come. Will the government return with this type of contribution time and again?
i-N1fio3zQKot4vGjF5Ubn8f	Madam President, I would like The short answer is no– the government will not come back with such an exceptional measure. We have plenty of other measures going on to ensure that this situation does not happen again. I am not saying that it will be easy; this will continue to be a challenge throughout Europe, which has an unsound dependence on fossil gas. This dependence must be broken, and we must help to break it. Let me remind the House that there are many pensioners who actually live in houses around the country; it is not the case that pensioners live exclusively in apartments. This aid meets those who have experienced the greatest increases in consumption and thus also the greatest increases in costs. I admit that we could have tailored it in detail to get millimetre justice. By then, however, the aid would not have arrived already this month, or in March or April, but it would have come much later – perhaps even next year. This had not helped anyone.
i-CcND7bd97sNqqcEgJmkBRG	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. Those who sit at home and turn on each crown would probably like to see the money come even if they came a little later. I agree with the Government – it is clear that the supply of Russian gas has affected electricity prices. However, that is not the whole truth. Sweden has shut down nuclear reactors in the southern part of the country, which could have created competitive prices for households there and which could also counter the climate impact on the continent. This is how we could have given Sweden economic opportunities and also been able to make climate benefits. You have to look at the whole truth and not just say that it is the Russian gas. It is also political decisions that have put us in that situation, and there the red-greens have a huge responsibility.
i-AmygnJQ8W39S1yp8G3iYFU	Madam President, I would like When nuclear power plants are closed down by the market, it is, once again, for reasons of profitability. Profitability reasons mean that it would have been more expensive to sell the electricity if it had to be maintained. This is what profitability means. Who would have paid for and been happy to have permanently increased electricity prices, which would have been a risk if this House and the government had forced the owners, through political decisions, to maintain those reactors? I do not think that those who see the high prices today would have been happier to have them permanently. Let us hold on to this! I agree with Mr Teimouri that this is not just about Russian action. As I was in my first speech, this is about a wide range of measures relating to both the wind situation, the water situation and other things. But Russian action has been the factor that has had the greatest impact on prices.
i-BgUFy62j4AsEEdkcZXpgh4	Madam President, I would like I can agree with the Minister for Energy on one thing: there are no quick fixes in the future. On the other hand, four nuclear reactors were shut down very quickly. I find it sad that no one in this House wants to take any responsibility whatsoever for having affected prices this winter. Then you also have very hard to see what to do right ahead. Until 2040 we are expected to need twice as much electricity as now. It could be even more. It is about electrification, it is about investments and it is about households being able to cope with their electricity consumption. To ensure this, a number of important policy proposals are needed. This is largely about nuclear power. But first let me start by giving the Minister for Energy a little tip and a part: Stop chasing small-scale hydropower! Let it remain – many streams small. Nuclear power will be an important part of the future energy market. The ministers are ralliing over the fact that there is no market. But the government is therefore prepared to subsidise offshore wind power while talking about the market for nuclear power not working. Let me be clear. First of all, the right rules must be laid down:
i-77Vbw5qh72w6LFYcfsRPhf	Change the legislation so that nuclear power can be built in more places 中 shortening the permit process . give a signal to the market that we see that nuclear power is needed for the future. Who wants to invest in nuclear energy when we have a government that absolutely does not want nuclear energy? Madam President, I would like There are a lot of things that need to be done. I don't have time to mention them all now. I would like to thank the Christian Democrats for lifting this debate, which is incredibly important. However, in order to avoid having to stand here again next year and the year after that, nuclear power must become part of the energy supply of the future. It doesn't have to be very expensive, as the new minister claims.
i-Wqwf9BSwmGR4F3i7Cj5Bjo	Madam President, I would like Elisabeth Svantesson claims that new nuclear power does not have to be very expensive. Maybe that's the way it is. As I said before, there are many reports that claim it. But I like reality. As an entrepreneur and entrepreneur in essence, I like to count on the money that it will be about in reality and not as someone has counted in Excel. When Finland built its reactor, it took 16 years, and it supplies three to four times more electricity than Swedish wind turbines do. Flamanvilles's new reactor in France supplies up to seven times more expensive electricity. Who's gonna pay for it? The Moderates are talking about new nuclear power plants; someone has to pay for it. You don't have a single penny in your budget for that. Are you planning on someone else paying? Are electricity consumers to bear the permanently increased costs of such an expensive solution? It would be good to know.
i-C69cyHhoZuNBsDt7CwJQUJ	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. I mentioned several things. First of all, we need to change the conditions for nuclear power in Sweden. It is about pricing, for example. You should be paid for the effect you can actually produce and deliver into the system. Nuclear power is stable, clean and sustainable, and it should be paid for. I may be a little fussy about the minister, but the minister says it's really cheap with wind power and very expensive nuclear power. That's not true. What we need in the future is not only about pricing – I am convinced that we can get good prices through nuclear energy – but also about stability in the system. Therefore, my first question in the last shift with the Government was whether it is seriously believed that wind power is capable of doing this. Should wind power be the only possible factor in the system? I am not a nuclear physicist; I am an economist. But you do not need to read very many reports to understand that it will not work to build all of Sweden's future electricity supply on wind power.
i-6ePcs9N4RQY4zjzz9XUxYv	Madam President, I would like I will return to that question. Elisabeth Svantesson says that nuclear power does not have to be very expensive. No, it may not have to be. But reality has shown every time that it has become very expensive. I wonder who's gonna pay for it. Should taxpayers pay for it? Because there is no money for that in your budget. Are electricity consumers to pay for this by permanently increasing electricity prices? I'm the first person to stand up and say I like planned electricity. I think our electrical system should be stable. While the Moderates are talking about nuclear power and have stuck to that solution, yesterday I launched an electrification strategy that takes a holistic approach with flexibility in the system, with support services, with smart grids, with power, power and district heating, with wind power and with hydropower. That is how we move forward, instead of locking ourselves at one unfunded detail, as the Moderates do.
i-NMhPtco5aRaaWXBZGdbzsC	Madam President, I would like We would like to see a more honest debate here. It is clear that the policy does not provide a good basis for nuclear power. If politics were to provide better conditions, we could say, for example, that what Vattenfall is doing in Estonia we want them to do in Sweden. I believe in the small modular reactors. I believe in more money for research. We have had this in our budget for many years. For example, we must reward research into nuclear power so that we can see it in the future. Nuclear power is too expensive, says both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Energy. But let me tell you what's too expensive. It is too expensive for the Swedish people to let Sweden be ruled by the Social Democrats for four more years. Then we will be standing here year after year, stating that electricity is expensive and that it is because nuclear power has been shut down and has not wanted to invest in new ones. It's too expensive. It's a strange discussion that the Minister for Energy is now having. We are happy to subsidise offshore wind power, but we are doing everything we can to knock down nuclear power. We will need wind power and nuclear power to meet the challenge facing Sweden.
i-T4oakJLLWXbSQQenkyttHf	Madam President, I would like I would first like to welcome the fact that the Moderates are joining us as guardians of small-scale hydropower. I therefore immediately ask whether one can also support the Center Party's committee initiative in the Civil Committee to stop the trials of them before there is new legislation in place. I listen to Elisabeth Svantesson and I also read on the Moderate website that all fossil-free power is protected. Elisabeth concluded by saying that we need both wind power and nuclear power. How is it that people around Sweden repeatedly say no to new wind power? In West Sweden, from which I come, we have projects that can give far more power than the abandoned reactors. The Moderates say no to that. In Stockholm you say no, and in Kävlinge you say no and ph otoshop pictures. How are we going to get the power out if the Moderates constantly say no to at least part of it? What does Elisabeth Svantesson have to say to her party colleagues in West Sweden?
i-PvTs3eYEgcUXA4dDReWDvv	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rickard Nordin, for the questions! I do not know anything about your committee initiative, but we and our party leader have also said that we think that the government should pause the search for small-scale hydropower. Many streams small are, as I said, important. However, I can come back to the committee initiative because I am not in that committee. On the issue of wind power and the municipal veto, I thought the Center Party thought that decisions should be made as close to people as possible. I think so. Municipalities should have the decisive and final answer to this. It is not true that moderate municipalities everywhere stop wind turbines. Just look at what it looks like down in Skåne, for example. There, large affected municipalities have said yes to offshore wind power. So what Rickard Nordin says is not true. I think, as I said, that decisions should be made close to people, and that is in the municipalities.
i-7hMfYXP7SRoYrubnK26dCD	Madam President, I would like Then we look forward to Moderate support for small hydropower. What I'm saying is true. The Moderates say no in Stockholm County, on the west coast, in Bohuslän and in Kävlinge, where you ph otoshop pictures. This is true, and you can't get away from it. I think it makes sense to keep the municipal veto. But then I wonder, Elisabeth Svantesson: How will all this power come about? What do the Moderates want to do to increase local acceptance? Are you prepared to look at regionalising property tax so that this becomes more profitable? Are you prepared to look at compensation for those affected? How will the Moderates produce the wind power they claim to want when local moderate politicians make sure it is stopped? What solution do the Moderates have at national level to this problem?
i-PrP4vEJYaKHFUJyjCLQvNt	Madam President, I would like I think that in my minutes I made it clear that we should first and foremost invest in nuclear energy. That's where the dividing line goes between me and Rickard Nordin. I still think that the municipalities should retain their veto. It's interesting that attack is the best defense. Rickard Nordin and the Center Party have been involved in deciding on the four nuclear reactors that have been shut down. It has affected and is currently affecting Swedish electricity supply, and it also affects Swedish households. I think Rickard Nordin and the Center Party should take their responsibility for it. None of the parties responsible in this House want to do that, which I find sad. Wind power will be needed. But the municipalities must be able to say no. They're the ones that are close to people. However, the Center Party needs to rethink nuclear power, Rickard Nordin. If we are to cope with development and electrification, the future lies in new technologies in nuclear power.
i-YHpjqE7Hf2wvo4hTjC4yz3	Madam President, I would like Member Svantesson! I reacted to a few things. The honourable Member said that the government has closed down four reactors, and the last were Ringhals. I am surprised by the fact that something is being repeated which, in the end, seems to be even a truth. But the truth is that when Elisabeth Svantesson's party was in the government in 2013, our reactors paid over 4 billion in taxes for thermal power. This tax was removed in 2016. Incited by having the remaining two reactors left behind by political means, it was said that they were shut down for economic reasons. The owners themselves have said that it was not sustainable. What do you say there was a treasure when you ruled? It was removed in 2016. You're still claiming something else. Is it the discussion on renewables or fossil-free and if only this had been in place, would it have been happy to invest?
i-BghPSfFE5sGCpAAA59fPaa	Madam President, I would like I hope I understood the question. I think like this: Sometimes it sounds like energy policy doesn't matter. They say it's the market that decides. But yes, energy policy matters. We have all made good and worse decisions in our years and decades in this House. Now, however, we see an increased need for electricity. Until 2040, we're gonna double the supply. How do we expect it to come about? We must make it easier for nuclear power and ensure that that market can also work. It is political decisions that have caused the market to fail. Energy policy can therefore have an impact on the market. It affects the wind power market. It affects nuclear power. The whole market is affected by energy policy. Energy policy and the market are interrelated. When we in the agreement – which is probably what the honourable Member is thinking about – made sure to save the reactors that were left, we did so through the decision on the tax. However, it should be seen in the light of what happened then. Unlike many other parties, we are looking at what is happening right now.
i-8Nd9LoJycxsoBX53ftSPvy	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Mr Svantesson. What I want to emphasise is the discussion about the closure of the reactors by political means. We agree on what happened through the agreement. There was no part of my party, but I have followed the question and know what happened. What I'm saying is that you still had the treasure when you ruled. The tax was removed to make it easier for the remaining reactors. Then, for economic reasons, it was decided that they were too old and that investments would not carry out. Yet you keep insisting that it is political decisions that have shut down the reactors. So that's not true. We are talking about whether it should be renewable and fossil-free and that investments should roll in. I have no problem with changing the word, but I would like to see these investments flock to the reactors by changing the word!
i-YBwzyM44pS4stAMyJ2C3jK	Madam President, I would like Words are, of course, important. "Fossil free" and "renewable" are two slightly different words, and we support the fossil-free. Two years ago, on 22 January 2020, the Riksdag made a decision. 175 against 174 decided not to go further and save Ringhals. You're welcome to back down many years in time, Birger Lahti, but two years ago you joined in saying yes to these being closed. This has affected electricity prices and our electricity supply.
i-9o1of5c3PEmMsPi8e8dEXY	Madam President, I would like The Moderates are a party that takes security policy seriously. It is related to energy policy, which is why I have a question about it. DN reported a week ago that State Vattenfall continues to import Russian nuclear fuel. It is happening in the midst of perhaps the most security-politically critical situation with Russian aggressions we have had in years and days in Europe. For quite a long time we in Sweden have been dependent on Russian uranium. I was going to ask Elisabeth Svantesson if she would like to hang out with the Green Party to stop the import of Russian uranium.
i-ETEFGaytiHiH5iuL2ZHHfx	Madam President, I would like I think you should be honest in this House, and I should be. I haven't seen this news. I should certainly have done so, especially in the run-up to this debate. I'll read the article and think about the answer. Then I can contact the honourable Member when I have an answer to give.
i-QdXw3WWGL3j2hvV7RS7PvJ	Madam President, I would like The reason I asked was, among other things, because the Moderates tend to be very quick to warn against Russian gas, a warning I agree with. Unfortunately, moderates at European level have turned in Russian gas. I have a supplementary question. Not only are we dependent on Russian uranium, but in the world Russia and China are now strengthening their role as leaders in nuclear technology. Russia is currently trying to enter the energy markets of Belarus, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Bulgaria and Slovakia. It uses its state-controlled company Rosatom to enter these markets to create energy dependence in other countries. This can then be used in its power policy agenda. This is a security problem. Are the Moderates willing to stop Russian and Chinese energy technology for nuclear power plants in Sweden?
i-BWd5cieL429t9jFrQFdDEF	Madam President, I would like Let me first fix something. Neither in the European Parliament nor here in Sweden have the Moderates voted in favour of natural gas, for example in the case of taxonomics. We have voted against this in Parliament. Here, too, we fully agree with the government that this is not a good way to go. That's what I want to say, because it's important. I do not always share Mr Lorentz's views, but here I share the view of the danger and the risk of becoming dependent on Chinese as well as Russian technology, nuclear fuel and other things. The happy news today is about Northvolt's bet on batteries. It is also important to look at how they can produce all the parts that they need for the batteries. We think that more should be collected in Sweden. I know that we do not always share the same view that the mining industry in Sweden must assist Northvolt. It should not just be poor countries in Africa. I think we can agree on the concerns about Chinese and Russian power over our energy system. It would be good if the whole Parliament could agree on this.
i-NtuhpLRTXLq1kPUE3e9Vbm	Madam President, I would like Almost exactly a year ago we had a special debate on Sweden's electricity supply and high electricity prices. We can discuss electricity prices again here today. Of course, there may be proposals that will help in the short term. But it is long-term measures that do not put us back in the same situation that is urgent. It is a rescheduling of energy policy that needs to be put in place to ensure that we do not repeatedly end up in such situations and that there is not an annual debate that we should have in the Swedish Parliament. The Swedish democrats' entry into energy policy is that we need to replace today's goal that it should be 100 percent renewable by that there should be 100 percent fossil-free electricity production in order to clearly indicate that nuclear power has a given place in the Swedish electricity supply and also remove the regulatory barriers that exist for it. We need to participate in the development of the next generation of nuclear power with small modular reactors in Sweden instead of state-owned Vattenfall having to do this abroad. Electricity grid capacity needs to be expanded at a faster pace. There, the Government's ambitions are to shorten the processing times too low and too slow. We need to strengthen the competitiveness of power and district heating. They are important for the balance of power and to relieve the need for electricity in cities. We need to ensure that hydropower is not unnecessarily torn out when modern environmental conditions are introduced with the national plan. Small-scale hydropower is important for the power balance in southern Sweden. There is a need for clear and concrete targets for security of supply that the policy should steer towards, as the Riksdag has previously decided, but the government has stalled. If we in Sweden are to succeed in electrification in order to become fossil-free, we must have access to electricity during all hours of the year and at reasonable prices. Then our power systems must not depend on the weather either.
i-S4XsHKsVqopv2CAZWgK7F	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mattias Bäckström Johansson, for the post! Action is needed in the long term. We agree on that. This is precisely why the government yesterday presented a holistic approach to the electrification strategy for Sweden. I'm very proud of that. I see that there are many things that touch most parties in this House and that we can agree on. However, I hear Mattias Bäckström Johansson say that we need to remove the regulatory barriers to nuclear power. I wonder who he means. Does he mean the safety requirements on which everyone in Europe now agrees? Are those the regulatory obstacles? Is it to build? I know you have to build. We have three sites where the state has paid 100% for the transmission networks that are already developed where one can build, but not one building. What regulatory barriers is it that Mattias Bäckström thinks about? Is it that taxpayers should pay for this?
i-TiTDZtWEkWVhdRuw9xzJL1	Madam President, I would like The main obstacle is the fact that law prohibits its construction in 287 out of 290 municipalities. You can't call it a free market. It is the ultimate proof that operators are not allowed to look at the places where it is possible to build. It is reasonable to have the possibility of building where it is possible to have proximity or connection to the main grid in order to get the electricity out or that it is built where the electricity is needed. This is not possible when it is prohibited in 287 of 290 municipalities. In addition, the state controls 70% of the nuclear power market for the ten reactors that can be built in Sweden via Vattenfall. The Government of Sweden has explicitly stated in previous budget proposals that Vattenfall will not build replacement reactors in Sweden. They have been ordered to stop work on replacement reactors, which control 70% of the market. In combination with the other measures, the conditions for new nuclear power are not in place in Sweden. There is a great political risk.
i-UzxnritSvLm78HpiCmgFeS	Madam President, I would like I note that the Swedish Democrats want a reactor to be built in each municipality in Sweden. I wonder how acceptance it is among people. There are those who think that wind power sounds or is not aesthetically pleasing. I wonder if they are very pleased that there is a nuclear reactor just around the corner. Today we have three sites where it is quite possible to build. Those are the sites that remain. You're usually complaining that it's been shut down there. That's where you can build. There are already transmission networks, 100% paid by the state, which the opposition is now complaining about being subsidised for wind power. Yet not one person has lifted his wallet and said that they are prepared to pay and build there. That's because nuclear power isn't profitable. This is despite the fact that the target of 100% renewable by 2045 does not mean a stop date. This does not mean that the reactors will be shut down on 1 January 2045, but that those that exist and function can continue after that. This is a goal. Even so, no one invests.
i-81jPRYyCXTztgCnrhEYnfQ	Madam President, I would like Unlike, for example, regarding wind farms, we can see in the places where we have built nuclear power in Sweden that there is a great deal of support for facilities in those municipalities. This is unlike where wind farms are often built and where there is no local acceptance. I am absolutely convinced that people, especially with the electricity prices they have experienced and when they begin to understand what the government's energy policy has led to, think that we cannot go on like this. It is a little strange that one feels compelled to ban the construction of nuclear power in 287 of the country's 290 municipalities. What was being done just now was to impose wind power on municipalities by trying to abolish the municipal veto. It was about limiting municipal self-determination. Councils would not be allowed to decide for themselves whether they want wind farms or not. It is through politics that we can influence the conditions for what will happen in energy policy. The signals that exist are what the Government repeats as an objective. It is clearly a government's objective that there should be no nuclear power. Who will want to invest under those premises?
i-9uny5KkEiXCST2yTAqoqbY	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your speech, Mattias Bäckström Johansson! We are usually quite in agreement on energy policy. I think that's very good. We're on the same page. I also heard in the speech that the problem that we are currently seeing is long-term, and strong action is needed to resolve it. I have read in the media that the Swedish Democrats believe that the government's one-off contribution is a short-term measure that will not solve the problems fundamentally. But I have also read that the Swedish Democrats now choose to support the Government's proposal for an electricity contribution. It makes me a little confused. We agree quite well that the high excise duty on electricity must go down. I would like to check with the honourable Member how the Swedish Democrats are reasoning.
i-A83iPHQAeuv4CiPs3LmHGo	Madam President, I would like I believe that Mr Teimouri and I are in broad agreement on what needs to be done in the area of energy policy and also on energy taxation. There were the Swedish Democrats out early this autumn and pointed to the need to lower it. It was certainly under the guise of seeing the high electricity prices coming. I think we need to lower it in the future when we need electrification and want to see more electricity used both by companies and by households. Then we should not reasonably have a high level of excise duty on something that we want to be used more of. We reasonably have this on other things, such as perhaps tobacco and alcohol, where you want to use less of it. El, we want more of it to be used. There, the Swedish Democrats will come forward with a proposal to have a permanent reduction of the energy tax by a quarter from the mid-year onwards, as we announced two days ago. We believe that this is an important signal to ease the future in time, but also to send signals that one should dare electrify for both households and business.
i-GF4MHDTjxfQFytuLhVJFUE	Madam President, I would like That's it. It is a little strange that we in Sweden have an excise duty on fossil-free electricity. This is normally the case with tobacco, alcohol and this type of product. We also know that reducing taxes is much more effective if we want to support those who have received high electricity bills. I would like the Swedish Democrats to clarify how they see it. Will the government's proposal be supported, which means that 3 million households will not receive support? Or is it prepared, together with other parts of the opposition, to just lower the electricity tax so that it reaches all 4.8 million households in Sweden?
i-VnqmKRpWmK2QGPtJvg42YK	Madam President, I would like I absolutely believe that the electricity tax rebate is the best way to ensure that the level n is right or has a linear link to the electricity consumption that each household or company has in substance. The problem is that when we lifted this last autumn there was no support from any party – not from the government parties or from any other party in the opposition. The situation we are in now means that, in that case, we should amend the tax legislation retroactively in order to make this possible. We believe that it is more important to be able to quickly obtain support for households in order to compensate those who have the largest electricity bills and can be found within the consumption range. On the other hand, the proposal is far from perfect, and we will take the initiative to see what changes can be made within the framework of the work of the Committee on Finance. But we also need to look at the need to reduce electricity tax forward in order to ensure that it is cheap to use electricity and to send a signal that we are going towards electrification. But it is also a question of the fact that it is wrong to have a high level of excise duty on fossil-free electricity.
i-S4P7ydzwdTuHuNdhhefnfK	Madam President, I would like Forecasts point to a doubling of electricity use to somewhere around 2050, not least in view of the climate change needs. Energy policy must cope with this long-term approach. We had a stable energy agreement, which two parties chose to drop out to pursue other policies. However, when you listen to the debate here today, you hear us say about the same things: we need to equip the electricity system to double its use. We need to greatly streamline the licensing processes; the government has even made the Centre Party's goal of halving them its own. We need to increase local electricity generation and acceptance regardless of the type of production to be built and where. The investments in line need to be made possible. Electricity networks need to be strengthened. The tax burden needs to be reduced. Important system solutions such as system services, efficiency and flexibility need to be upgraded. Friends in the Chamber and politicians! Is it not time, then, for us to sit down and solve this? There are some dividing lines that are played very much, but there is also a lot that we agree on. It's time to get out of the trenches. Households expect this situation not to happen again. Industry expects a long-term perspective in its transition. The climate does not care about high tone and polarised debate. We have an obligation to try to solve this together. We in the Center Party have done it many times before. Now let's reach out one hand to the rest. If you really want to solve this and create long-term conditions – come to the negotiating table! The Government's electrification strategy is a lot of air, but this can also be concretised together. I am convinced that we can solve this – for the good of Sweden, for the good of households and for the good of the climate.
i-FpywzhpvCxzV4WCYZ4ED9b	Madam President, I would like There are many parts where we from the Swedish Democrats agree with Rickard Nordin in the field of energy policy. But when I listen to him here and hear his call to get out of the trenches to do something, I can see that the Center Party has buried itself in its own trench in the wide center. My question to Rickard Nordin is whether the Center Party is prepared to compromise on nuclear power. We can see that within the opposition there is a fairly firm picture of what needs to be done, where the possibilities of any fossil-free power race are not closed, but where one wants to be able to ensure that there is more equal competition between the different power classes. The question is whether the Center Party is prepared to compromise in these pieces, where all fossil-free power teams should exist and where nuclear power has a given place in the Swedish energy supply forward.
i-MTQpBXqWgC1uzw4XoJgi5i	Madam President, I would like We have said that we are prepared to listen to all parties. Then we sit down together and see what we can agree on. That's how a negotiation and a discussion work. I am not conducting a negotiation here, in the Parliament's pulpit. That would be both inappropriate and deeply regrettable. We are prepared to sit down and listen to all the parties to see what can be agreed upon – if you really want to come to an agreement. That's what we did in the Energy Agreement and Energy Commission earlier. But there the Swedish Democrats chose quite clearly to shoot themselves out, and the Liberals and Left Party did the same. The rest of us, the five parties that remained, sat down and discussed to see what we could find agreement on. I believe that there is a great deal that can be agreed on. Not least, I know that the Swedish Democrats, for example, have followed up what the Center Party does when it comes to local acceptance. It's important to us. Then I know that there is a dividing line when it comes to what one should cooperate on and which parties one should cooperate with. That's where the Center Party thinks we should work in the middle and keep outer edge parties out. But I am prepared to listen to the opposition.
i-WPx76GvSnt9dNpEkCWoh5K	Madam President, I would like What Rickard Nordin concluded his speech with is probably a little bit of the problem. You are prepared to step into your own trench again, in the broad middle where it is comfortable and where you do not need to consider who is in the parliament and what the Swedish people have voted for. There is no need to respect democracy and people's choices. It is convenient to sit down there, in the wide center and in your own trench, and talk about what you should do or what you have done. The Swedish Democrats are absolutely prepared to compromise in different parts. We are absolutely convinced that all fossil-free power sources will be needed in the energy supply in the future. It also includes, and above all, nuclear power, as there is no other option for large-scale planned power generation in southern Sweden. We were not part of the energy agreement made during the last parliamentary term precisely on the basis of the shortcomings that existed. After all, the fears that existed in the reservation we had have become a reality. Madam President, I would like The question then is whether the Center Party and Rickard Nordin are satisfied with how it has developed and how it has struck in recent years. It is a consequence of this policy.
i-Wi7Rc8S4YXxVW4WAmtmbPr	Madam President, I would like The Center Party has said that we need a new energy agreement. We've been saying that for a long time. We have been prepared to sit down and discuss, but we know that there were parties who dropped out instead of having that discussion. The Swedish Democrats have not even tried. That is the big problem. You've decided what you want, and then you're gonna go for it and you're not prepared to compromise. Mattias Bäckström Johansson says that all fossil-free forces are needed. Yet we see Swedish democrats who go around Sweden to meetings to stop wind power, no matter what the conditions are. So you go around to agitate at meetings. It's not accepting all fossil-free forces. Rather, it is trying to whip up opinions against the transition we actually need. You consistently say no. It is not to compromise and feel that everything is needed. I think Mattias Bäckström Johansson needs to think about his local party colleagues around Sweden, and also about the national ones, and how they act on various issues so that we really get a transition and the energy production that we need.
i-2apk9Qh86Dvz4NfNMse4vL	Madam President, I would like Let me start by saying that the reason we did not enter into the energy agreement last time was that we saw these very risks. And that's where we're at today. These include subsidies and energy policy objectives, where we saw that nuclear power would not have the same conditions as the other fossil-free power laws. But we have something in common, because we have also talked about an energy agreement 2.0. We have been doing this for years, and I can say that I am quite happy that the Center Party has now also come to the same understanding. But it is also important to have the same picture of reality. I would like to ask the honourable Member how he views the energy policy objectives. If we are to give the same conditions to the Swedish energy mix, we must also assume that the energy policy objectives must be changed. Is the Center Party prepared to do that?
i-FHhEs5rcFRvB6PV2Ymy5tT	Madam President, I would like First of all, it should be said that Arman Teimouri was not there when we made the energy agreement. The fact that the Liberals saw this coming and therefore chose not to agree is not true. I am not going to quote what was said by Members in internal rooms, because that would be inappropriate. But let's put it this way: Arman Teimouri will probably have to call his former colleague and find out what was really going on, because this is totally misleading. I know very well what it was like, and I think I can even find e-mails that show it. We are prepared to sit down and listen to all parties and try to find compromises. This means that Arman Teimouri will also have to compromise if you really want to make an energy agreement. That hearing does not take place in a change of line in the Riksdag, but we would love to listen to everyone. I think we have things that we can agree on where we have a great deal of unity. I think that Arman Teimouri needs to work a little locally and internally on his opinion formation – debate articles in Expressen, paused wind power expansion and other things – so that we can move forward in such a discussion.
i-Y1Zm1jziFbrVhLbbdK7xqb	Madam President, I would like I thank the honourable Member for his reply. It is still the case that if you are going to sit at a negotiating table, it is also about having the same picture of reality. I do not think we have that in this House. I do not even remember any more, so I would like to hear that from the honourable Member, why the Center Party is against nuclear power at all. After all, we are in a completely new situation with nuclear power now that the question of disposal has been resolved. We are entering a new situation where we see new technologies and new opportunities – also new opportunities for Sweden AB when it comes to strengthening its competitiveness, solving climate challenges, being able to export significantly more and be of benefit to climate work also on the continent. However, we need to have the same picture of reality, and I do not think we have that today. However, it would be interesting to hear whether the honourable Member is prepared to review the energy policy objectives.
i-4KWiXWsGNq8wVV4WUMrDoZ	Madam President, I would like After all, the reality picture is not about what is said in this House. It is about doubling the use of electricity, equipping the system, expanding the electricity grid, making it more efficient and increasing flexibility. Here's Arman Teimouri nodding. He agrees! That is the picture of reality, and it is the same. I think we also have quite a few solutions which are the same, as I said in the speaker's chair. Then let us sit down and really find the sensible solutions to this. As far as the Center Party is concerned, we already said in 2009 that it's okay to build new nuclear power if anyone is willing to pay. That is the problem of nuclear power: nobody wants to pay. But if Arman Teimouri can find someone who wants to do it, there are actually prepared places for it in Sweden today. The problem with liberals is that you dream about things that don't happen in practice. It's a reality picture that I think the Liberals need to embrace and actually start addressing. If you want new nuclear power, you have to start paying for it yourself.
i-GVyc6ZqU6hstVWQYFUevqA	Madam President, I would like The EU has an ambition for a single European electricity price. I'm just saying: if it becomes a reality, the high electricity prices in southern Sweden are unfortunately just a tragic foretaste of what lies ahead. I intend to dwell on the emergency package presented by the government. It is good to realize that many people are hit unusually hard. I am also pleased that on the right side there are some who talk about poor pensioners and apartment holders who are affected. However, I am a little doubtful that these are really what they have on their retinas when they talk about the support system. It is difficult to find a complete system that beats well, I am convinced of that. But I'm usually so honest that sometimes it's to my disadvantage. I'll tell you how it beats me. My electricity bill for December was about 450 bucks. I'm gonna get 700 bucks. But there are also people in Jokkmokk, whose ancestors have sacrificed much of their nature because hydropower has been expanded, whose electricity bill is four times as large when they have not locked the price. It is also a reality. Why are we here? I have said this before: how can Russian gas affect the amounts that people in southern Sweden are now paying? I have seen some electricity bills received by comrades in Malmö, and they pay over SEK 2 per kilowatt hour, plus transfer and all that. It's a shock increase in the electricity bill for those who only live in an apartment. I just wanted to introduce these differences. They're there too.
i-W5pzj1YKNCPWsbrKUU4CbZ	Madam President, I would like Russian gas is the big problem and the bad guy in this drama. It is good that we have several comrades in the speaker's chair who have seen this. At the same time, the Left Party wants to make Europe more dependent on Russian gas by strangulating Swedish exports of electricity. It does not benefit the climate, it does not benefit the security situation and it gives Putin even more power to influence – perhaps slightly less the Swedish prices but even more the European ones. What happened to international solidarity? What happened to the climate issue? What happened to making a real difference, Birger Lahti? How can the Left Party propose that the Russian bear be strengthened and have even more influence over European energy prices? I'd like to know.
i-PQ93qQ36AbeFihpDxkxbVj	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rickard Nordin, for taking a line on me! Somewhere there must be a difference between us and the Centre Party, although I think we have a similar view of energy policy in general. I have not seen anywhere that we have advocated cutting some cables. I have not seen anywhere that we have advocated that we should not export when we have surpluses. But now our industries in northern Sweden are going to make this change. In northern Sweden alone, the use of electricity will increase by 80 terawatt hours. There is a problem here with everything that is going on, which Rickard Nordin himself has been into, with the municipal veto, how moderate-controlled municipalities say no to offshore wind turbines although they are so far out that you hardly see them. Then, at the same time, we shall be Germany's conscience and battery. It will be dishonest towards the countries of the continent to say: we will fix this for you. It is more honest to say: we will of course be exporting when we have surpluses, but do not count on – as we heard in relation to Germany and as the Commission seems to want – that we are your battery.
i-PAGoAbPcyyRkw6HGBqrt9X	Madam President, I would like I think we have a little difference of opinion on the market between the Center Party and the Left Party. This is exactly how it works. We export when we have surplus. If we hadn't had a surplus by now, we wouldn't have exported. If we have deficits, we import. That is how it works with contacts with the outside world, both in terms of electrical energy and in terms of other things. If we are in any way to lock this in and thereby lower prices and not export, there is only one solution, namely to cut the cables. This is what the Left Party does not answer or perhaps does not understand – I know that Birger Lahti understands, but his fellow party members probably do not. We need to make sure that we do everything we can both to expand renewable energy and to strengthen the security situation in Europe. We do this with international trade, both in electricity and with other goods – preferably with batteries, so that we do not have to buy them from China. Of course, we are going to improve electricity, but it is not about nationalising electricity policy again. Then you only benefit Russia.
i-GFKpH55Xfy2hrHJeXdjbAK	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Rickard, for the debate. There's a problem with this system. I see several times in the Center's rhetoric that the market will manage this and that it works fine, which it does not. It would be much better if, instead of the margin pricing that exists, we could sit down and look at how we could have marginal pricing in common in the Nordic countries, and if we have surplus we export. When we pressed for pensions to be raised, a lot of people said: It's impossible, don't you understand? We have a pension agreement in Sweden! Now you see what happened. I say the same to Rickard Nordin: do not be so sure that the market is always so damn clear- excuse the word usage, Madam President! I know that marginal pricing is the obstacle and we have the situation that we have today.
i-E335hMQ9E9u5KpjX7P8655	Madam President, I would like I have also noted that the Left Party wants to cut the electric cables to the rest of the world, and I am perhaps not very surprised that those thoughts come from the Left Party. Before the government broke the profitability of nuclear power through a sharp tax increase and four closed blocks it might have been possible to isolate Sweden, but now we are completely dependent on our neighbours and that they are always willing to help us regardless of the weather. The last thing we're going to do is risk that help not being given. I can see that we are already misbehaving by failing to live up to our promises and repeatedly restricting the transfer to the neighbours. It's a dangerous game. I would like to ask Mr Lahti whether the Left Party is really prepared to expose Swedish industry, Swedish households and Sweden AB to that risk.
i-3ZSRsnr1xxihQp4JjR5ote	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Teimouri. I give roughly the same answer as I gave to the Center Party. We've never talked about cutting any cables. We have never talked about not being solidarity-based in terms of surpluses that we have. But with regard to the price system that we have today, I am convinced that I have the industry in northern Sweden with me. They have concerns about the spread of the price picture from Europe, and they have not expanded the renewable as the idea was. I agree that this volatility is not favourable today when we have not expanded for storage and the pieces that allow the balance of effects to be maintained. Then we are infected by this picture from countries that have significantly higher electricity prices. In the industry in northern Sweden, they are afraid that if we do nothing about price mechanisms, it will be more difficult for them to make this transition.
i-SL2dsUEp2ceCQ79JbsgvHV	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Birger Lahti, for your answer. I can say that the only way to actually make the Left Party plan work is to expand substantially with planned production. Without the cables, however you look at it– I can see that there are more people who perceive the same thing, so that you want to cut them in any way– nor would wind power have anywhere to go on the days it blows. This would result in large surpluses of electricity and undermine the profitability of both nuclear and hydroelectric power. Since we would need them the days that it does not blow, you have to keep them under your arms in some way. I would like to say to the honourable Member that one cannot wish for both weather-dependent electricity production and being an electric nationalist. Anyone who likes wind power must also love electricity transmission to other countries as well.
i-8HcGkqVq4x1LzTjXAq8TED	Madam President, I would like Or you have a picture of how storage will happen with overproduction of renewables. We have seen several examples of how long it takes to get a new reactor in place. You're talking so hot about nuclear power as all-encompassing types of energy. In itself, you do not say no to wind power either, but you can actually call if it is a reality, because everything is based on the fact that the solution is new nuclear power. But if we get to the storage and overcapacity of wind power that we store, it is a good incentive to manage our own electricity generation. The whole scenario of industries is based on hydrogen storage, and hydrogen will phase out coal and other fossil fuels. I feel safe with the policies that we have brought out. I have never said anything about cutting cables, and I am surprised that many interpret it as having done so.
i-VPRWGSutFd8YibNYmATnAv	Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats see the need for both short-term and long-term solutions ahead. In this acute situation, the state must act swiftly and forcefully. The Government has presented a proposal for an electricity price subsidy to compensate you for paying the tax, and this is based on the number of kilowatt hours spent per month. The only problem is that many households have experienced very large increases in electricity bills, even though they have had relatively low consumption. Many of these households already live with small margins, and these will lose out on government grant money while there are examples of households who can get more in grants than the cost of that particular month. How twisted the government's policy is. Against this background, I wonder: did the proposal for a grant go a little too fast to push for the government? Were customers supposed to go plus the government's proposal? Of course, it was not a coincidence that it was presented on the same day that the Prime Minister would be standing in this Chamber in his first party leader debate. Instead, we think that lowering the tax would be a step in the right direction, which would also be more fair and turn to everyone. In a longer perspective, we must gradually restore the stability and predictability of the Swedish electricity system. It must not be the new normal for the price of electricity to explode every time there is no wind or zero. Security and life-long extension of current reactors! The decision on the disposal was necessary, and it is now opening the way for new reactors to be built. Change the energy target of 100% renewable to 100% fossil-free and remove today's restrictive conditions that only ten reactors can be found in three places in the country! To reverse the negative trend, a new government is needed – in order for the whole of Sweden to work.
i-VopFaALx4oj2FbfjCp3ZbE	Madam President, I would like In Brodin's previous speech, it sounded like she had only read half the report that Energiforsk delivered the other day and perhaps had not thought about what it did not say. It did not tell you that after the decision to close Ringhals 1 and 2 came, it has been extended as much or actually even more wind power than was covered by the reactors. It would not have happened if it had not been known that it would disappear from the market. In addition, Energiforsk also said that either nuclear reactors could be built or maintained, but offshore wind power could also be built. On the west coast, where Ringhals is located, the Christian Democrats have often said no to offshore wind power. So we could have had energy in place that the market itself wanted to pay for. The Christian Democrats have said no to that. What does Camilla Brodin say to her local party representatives in West Sweden who stopped this?
i-MhDSyAt6uU1iheDVhQ5KLH	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rickard Nordin, for the question! I'll try to get this out so it'll be clear. The Centre Party is a bit out of place if you think that offshore wind could have been there now, that it takes so little time to get all the permits in place and that this would now be ready so that energy prices or electricity prices today could have been much lower thanks to an offshore wind farm that is not even in place. On the other hand, we Christian Democrats will never abolish the municipal veto. Here it is the municipalities that must listen to what the local people want. You also have to look at what is best for the conditions that you have. We don't say no to offshore wind everywhere. Look at Sölvesborg, for example, and what is to come there, which we heard the Minister for Energy talk about earlier. The Center Party is not part of the ruling majority there. Saying that we always say no is not true.
i-BTyhKruh2QQZcM1iMy4SR1	Madam President, I would like It has been built 4.15 gigawatt wind power. It is therefore more than Energyforsk expected when talking about offshore wind power. It has been built since the decommissioning decisions in 2015. In 2016, the Christian Democrats were involved in signing the Energy Agreement, fully aware that the announcement had come. In fact, when the Christian Democrats then dropped out and came to Parliament and complained and wanted to do something for the reactors, Ringhals said that it cannot be done. It is not physically possible to resolve this as the Christian Democrats say. What is physically possible is to expand new power where investors want it. So the Christian Democrats say no to that. I have respect for the municipal veto, but the question will then be: what do the Christian Democrats want to do to ensure that more of these investments are put in place that investors are prepared to do today and tomorrow and that can also be done on market terms?
i-9dRHPE9pF4g5DL4LyHWLRM	Madam President, I would like Energy policy needs a whole new direction if we are to meet the climate targets. I believe that both the Christian Democrats and the Center Party are in complete agreement on this. We will need more electricity in the future, not less. We will need to see which is the most cost-effective system. Then Sweden needs to show political courage and actually change the energy policy goal, which the Center Party has not wanted to do, and actually go from 100 per cent renewable to 100 per cent fossil-free in order for us to be able to cope with tomorrow's electricity supply in as cost-effective, secure and reliable a way as possible. There will be a need for both nuclear, hydro and wind power, and I am pleased that together we are also protecting small-scale hydropower. We will have to do that for a long time to come. But we are not prepared to put the blinds on and say that nuclear power should not be left behind and sit at the negotiating table with that attitude in order to agree on how to shape new policies.
i-VmvYQaZWUzhHxAPCUHLURf	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Camilla Brodin, for your speech. One thing that I often ponder is the picture that the Christian Democrats and many other parties paint that they have shut down good and functioning nuclear power. I have shown in the past that this has been done for commercial reasons. It is the owners themselves who have done so for economic reasons, although they received a reduction in the tax on thermal power by over SEK 4 billion in 2016. How, then, can the Christian Democrats get the interpretation that it is political decisions that have shut down the reactors? That picture has been painted several times.
i-TwE11PsmnPAHYb4Ef9HXvK	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Birger Lahti, for the question. As Birger Lahti certainly knows, the energy agreement was concluded in 2016 in order to save nuclear power in the future. In 2015, Vattenfall decided to close the reactors prematurely. They were functioning reactors. If a political agreement says that we should have 100% renewable by 2040 and at the same time says that it does not mean the closure of nuclear power, the political direction is very double, I would say. Time and again we have seen that there is no market that will want to make billions of investments in the future if one cannot be sure to remain. Then Birger Lahti says that the government has not been involved in the closure of the reactors. Then just listen to the Green Party's previous energy political spokesperson, who says that the government has actively worked for this. Here we have different perceptions of reality. But this is an issue on which we really need to get on with our work.
i-GW2LECcfMhk9PfeFZJjKtf	Madam President, I would like I hear the answer that we will not have the same perception of reality, as Camilla Brodin says. Let me raise one more question that I picked up on. Camilla Brodin is a little offended by the support package presented by the government in view of the high electricity prices. She says it doesn't reach pensioners in an apartment. Is Camilla Brodin ready to look at this? Is it honest with these people you care about, and not the residents of the large villas in Djursholm who consume more than 3,000 kilowatt hours, which would be affected by the tax reduction? Do the Christian Democrats really protect apartment owners who have lower consumption but also suffer, especially in price ranges 3 and 4?
i-XZmfspUZnEXrygruHt8WK9	Madam President, I would like I think we both agree that those who have received very high electricity bills – families with children, pensioners and others, especially people in southern Sweden – will also be compensated in this acute situation. By reduced tax we do not mean that those who live in Djursholmsvillan are the ones in greatest need of the funds. Reducing taxes for all would be more fair than making a contribution that strikes that unevenly. Here I am pleased that we are at least protecting pensioners, families with children and those who actually need the reduced tax in order to be able to pay their electricity bills. It is not something that will be resolved in the short term, but it can provide a small sum for you to still be able to see hope and the light ahead. We will stand here next year and see the same developments. Now we have to work in the long term.
i-4SkULJ8WPc5XE1FvhbWyZ8	Madam President, I would like The Swedish power system has been so strong that it has been possible to take for granted that the electricity supply works and that the electricity is cheap. But then we came to the situation that the Liberals have been warning for so long, when the electricity system is no longer able to withstand the constant political attacks. The best thing would have been if the current government had taken the necessary initiatives, but unfortunately that will not happen. There are three types of power that can be expanded on a large scale to replace fossil fuels: solar, wind and nuclear power. All three will have to contribute to doubling the power system. They must be combined in a way that ensures that the supply of electricity works. Unless electricity supplies are always reliable and prices are reasonable, we will not lose oil, coal and gas. Planned and weather-dependent electricity generation needs to be expanded in balance. The paradox is that without more nuclear power the expansion of the sun and wind will also stop. We Liberals believe that we must get all the fronts moving. As soon as Sweden has a liberal bourgeois government in place, we will take the necessary measures to trigger investments in fossil-free electricity production. The most important thing is to update the energy policy objectives so that they reflect the challenge we have. If we do not double the power system, we will not be able to cope with either the climate change or the expansion of the industry. We also need to review a number of laws and regulations. The rules of play for fossil-free energy must be comparable. At the end of the next term of office, investment decisions need to start coming both for offshore wind power and for the new nuclear power.
i-HsNgMBXenj42iPeYshFeEp	Madam President, I would like Arman Teimouri, the Liberals and the opposition turn for nuclear power as some form of tulipanosis that will solve all the problems of the future. Had this tulipanaros existed in reality – nuclear power at the same time would have been cheap and fast in place and could deliver a lot of electricity – there would probably have been more for that solution. I mean not only political parties in this House, but also those who would have to pick up the wallet and pay for it. I note that in all the years when it was possible to build nuclear power – and it is still possible to build nuclear power plants since the Social Democratic-led government removed the excise duty on nuclear power in 2016 – no one has wanted to pull out the wallet and invest in this. No one! Who will build this, and when will the new nuclear power come into place? Our neighboring country did. 16 years took it. It's the second most expensive building in the world. Is this what you see before you, a tulipan rose that will solve the problems of the future?
i-N5UPFKYc5ibprCc1nPWW3E	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the question. In the debate, large investments are usually mixed up with high costs. In fact, a new reactor produces electricity for about 80 years. Then it would be no wonder if it took 40 years to repay the nuclear power plants. Then the problem is that this government, the red-greens together with the Center Party and the Left Party have created the conditions that allow no one to or wants to invest in nuclear power. These are the energy policy objectives. It's like saying to someone: Welcome to build on this green area! You are welcome to build villas here, but in 2040 it will be a green area again. With that rhetoric and politics, no one wants to invest. That is why we need to review the energy policy objectives so that we provide the same conditions for nuclear power as for the other power teams.
i-RjNNKfEAJNXF3Lc8Wo3Mdc	Madam President, I would like The same conditions, says Arman Teimouri. I note that nuclear power plants may be in a better position. The transmission networks that do not currently exist for offshore wind are already funded by the state and developed. The locations have already been designated. There is no excise duty on nuclear power. Yet no one is investing. But when it comes to offshore wind power, it is different, despite the political volatility that we have heard about. It is party friends of Arman Teimouri and members of other parties who reject better power opportunities in their municipalities. Despite this, the companies are in line to invest their money there, because there is profitability.
i-KWAm1nEMm3w7ZHoQYYFLH8	I know that Arman Teimouri's party has been involved in building one of the world's most expensive buildings, Nya Karolinska in Stockholm County. If this is the kind of solutions we also see in the energy market, Swedish consumers really have high prices to expect in the future.
i-NoURAUkpXNEYssojMWJMsF	Madam President, I would like I note that the great cost referred to by the Government is political uncertainty – that it does not really know where Sweden stands in 2040. Is it a fossil-free society, or is it a renewable society? We believe that it should be a fossil-free society where we build nuclear power as well as we build wind power and other fossil-free power types. It is the government's policy that has put us in this situation, where there are higher electricity prices and where we cannot supply electricity. We also see that the high electricity prices in southern Sweden started when Ringhals was closed. That's when there was a big difference between northern and southern Sweden. The Government must respond to this. How do you solve this in both the short and long term? We believe that all fossil-free forces should be given the same conditions.
i-KvJ6Qyvb7ZmkNynU34W6RJ	Madam President, I would like I took note of some of what Arman Teimouri said. Three types of power can be expanded on a sufficient scale – solar, wind and nuclear – and we need to get all the fronts moving. We can leave the nuclear power for a little while, and then we can talk about wind power – solar power we can also talk about, for that matter. Teimouri said it's problematic when you have a big political risk. That's what he said in the line shift with the Minister for Energy. Then let me ask you two questions: How does Arman Teimouri view the political risk created by the Liberals when debate articles in Expressen say that we should stop all wind power expansion in the next two years? And what proposals do the Liberals have to increase the expansion of wind power? I wonder, not least, given that all the Liberals on the West Coast say flatly no, no matter what projects they are, to offshore wind power.
i-hQSeJh1LgNyZFi1rMKajq	Madam President, I would like As in all other parties, there are different voices when it comes to how you view the future. What the honourable Member refers to in the debate is not the policy of the Liberals. There is a desire from some politicians to find a different direction in politics, but there are not Liberals. This is also a proposal which was voted down by a large majority at the country meeting last autumn. Nevertheless, I would like to thank Rickard Nordin for taking note of this debate article. The thing is, we have to give all the forces the same conditions. The big question is really why the Center Party does not want to give all power teams the same conditions. For us, it's no problem. We see nuclear power as part of the solution. That is why we also see that all forces should be given the same conditions. That is how we create strong competitiveness. We want to give all forces the same conditions.
i-NPY925yeNabP4KB48aHHop	Madam President, I would like It is good that the Liberals are not behind their party friends in Expressen. I hope that Arman Teimouri will also talk to them, because this creates political uncertainty. I ask the question simply and bluntly: what proposals do the Liberals have to increase the expansion of solar power and wind power?
i-RW3Aa8DRPWfxtTqhmVkQAJ	Madam President, I would like This is the thing. That is why we are also talking about the fact that we must have the same picture of reality. We see a reality picture where we have several different fossil-free energy types, power types, which can be combined in the Swedish energy mix. That is why we want to give wind power, solar power and nuclear power the same conditions. This is how we create a robust system that is economical for both industry and Sweden AB. Then we can make climate benefits both here at home and on the continent. Then we must give all forces the same conditions. That's what we can start looking at. If we together can create the right conditions for all these types of energy, we can do a lot for Sweden AB.
i-8xb2NYfBqk8r51pjfurGLd	Madam President, I would like With all due respect to Arman Teimouri, the Liberals may have one of the most populist energy policies here. The latest element in this is the complete abolition of the electricity tax, of which a large number is now being made. I would like to talk about the consequence of that proposal, and I have a question about it. If we were to abolish the electricity tax, very much of the cogeneration we have in Sweden would immediately be eliminated because large towns, in fact all urban areas, would switch to electric heating of various kinds – heat pumps and the like. This in itself would be a direct blow to the stomach of Sweden's balance of effects. Why are the Liberals pushing politics that would strike extremely hard against Sweden's balance of effects?
i-RSBv36oxEwyCXMnr4D7esF	Madam President, I would like I would almost have to ask the honourable Member to clarify this. We have not said that we should abolish the electricity tax. However, we have said that we are going to reduce the excise duty on electricity, which I think makes a pretty big difference. In the long term, we would like to see it halved. I think that would serve both Swedish industries and Swedish households well. I am thinking, in particular, of the extremely high electricity prices that affect households, single pensioners, families with children and others. No, we don't want to abolish the electricity tax. However, we want to halve the electricity tax. It is very strange that we should pay excise duty on fossil-free electricity. We pay excise duty on alcohol. We'll pay for it on tobacco. But we're not going to do that when it comes to fossil-free electricity.
i-Lp8h2fewpb1pPqq91RuxtE	Madam President, I would like In fact, Arman Teimouri was adept at having a semantic discussion throughout his line in order to avoid answering the question I had. Well, maybe I said wrong. It may be that you want to sink and then halve. It doesn't matter to the substance of the matter. The consequence is the same. In Swedish agglomerations, not least in southern Sweden where we already have a strained power balance, you would need to shut down the cogeneration since residential associations and tenant associations would switch to heat pumps and different types of electric heating. This would hit Sweden's balance of power directly, not least in southern Sweden. A relatively strained situation would perhaps over a year be incredibly much more strained. In addition, electricity prices would increase very strongly in southern Sweden. Why are the Liberals pursuing a policy that would increase prices in southern Sweden and reduce the margins in the power system?
i-Bkvn5xr37x3hv2HHR8aD2a	Madam President, I would like To be very poetic, or not at all poetic, I can say: That's not true. A halving of the electricity tax would not create these conditions. On the other hand, there is something I am very concerned about. I have read the Green Party's proposals for reducing electricity prices. If I don't remember wrong, three out of six proposals are for us to stop using electricity. This is not how Sweden AB will be built up. This is not how we secure households or industry or strengthen Swedish competitiveness. Above all, this is not how we ensure that we make the climate change that we are in great need of. We need to reduce the electricity tax in order for Swedish households and companies to have the opportunity to pay their electricity bills. We need to do this in the long term. The problem that we now see in Sweden is long-term and recurring. The electricity subsidy, which I believe is also supported by the Green Party, is not the solution.
i-K8FvcTtzqh2PeBbCs1c3E3	Madam President, I would like I find it harsh and bizarre that almost no one in here has highlighted energy efficiency. It is the fastest, most efficient and economically most rational way to deal with increased electricity prices. But let me go back to where I finished my first speech, namely to the amazing news that Northvolt is now opening up to a large battery factory outside Gothenburg. It's very fun. It's about 3,000 jobs. The question is where the electricity will come from. We can look at how the right wing has acted recently. They want to stop the wind park Poseidon outside Gothenburg, Mareld outside Bohuslän and Västvind outside Öckerö. All in all, this will be 22 terawatt hours, which is almost exactly twice as much as the two Ringhal reactors that have been shut down. Twice as much electricity production as the two Ringhal reactors have stopped right outside Gothenburg recently. So there will be no electricity to Northvolt if the right is allowed to retain power. This is not just the case in West Sweden. Even along our long, lovely, windy coast, projects were stopped after projects. The Moderates have the blue-brown record: 65.5 terawatt hours. It is therefore far more than all existing nuclear power in Sweden that is now being stopped. If we get back together in ten years, we'll know. If we have continued high electricity prices, the right wing has won and stopped the expansion of new electricity. If, on the other hand, we notice that electricity prices have fallen, it is the Green Party that has won and has been able to expand renewable electricity production. Sweden's electricity customers should hope for the latter option.
i-H5ywkkcdS2avXTAs9YQLyb	Madam President, I would like First of all, I want to say that Northvolt is fun. It's incredibly important. In my hometown of Gothenburg we now have 3 000 new jobs in the green transition, and we want to see this in more places. Lorentz Tovatt says that too few people talk about energy efficiency. Perhaps this is because there was only one party that had support for energy efficiency for companies and for those households that have now received really high electricity bills. There was therefore zero SEK that went to households for energy efficiency improvements in the government's, including the Green Party's, budget. Only the apartments, those that use relatively little electricity, were invested. They would get lower electricity bills with efficiency improvements, but there was therefore zero crowns for the households that have now been affected. Is the Green Party prepared to do something for real? Is it possible to support the Center Party's proposal to include efficiency measures in the green deduction? It had made a real difference for the coming winter.
i-PYp9Gab8PJRwxyL7nW4qcP	Madam President, I would like First of all, I shall say that I am not necessarily opposed to including energy efficiency in the green deduction. Nevertheless, there must be some measure of rhetoric; for the past 10 – 15 years we have had a policy in Sweden that has been heavily aimed at subsidising homes. It's root-and-rotation, interest-rate deduction, and so on. That's a little backwards. What the government wanted to do when the Green Party was part of it was to subsidise the conversion of multi-residential buildings so that they become more sustainable and also support the energy efficiency of the industry. That's great. It was the Center Party against and wanted to remove from its budget. As far as the green deduction is concerned, as I said, I am not necessarily against it, but I see that a more effective variant is to have a statutory obligation for energy efficiency that should actually apply to all sectors. Sure, we can discuss it. For example, I am happy to add premiums for removing such things as direct electricity.
i-VCoLwSMXXX9mVut1HA3fcd	Madam President, I would like It was then a pity that the Green Party was against it when we proposed it in the cooperation in the January agreement. When we proposed it, the Green Party, the Social Democrats and the Liberals were opposed to extending the green line in the budget, and now the Green Party is lifting the problems of interest rebates, root deductions and so on. Is that what the Green Party wants to remove? Does Lorentz Tovatt think that things should be scrapped? If so, it is very unwelcome news to Swedish households. Or why does Lorentz Tovatt stand and problematize about this in the Parliament's pulpit? When will we see any proposals in practice? Lorentz Tovatt talks about making it statutory and forcing people to energy-efficient. Should you get a fine or a prison if you do not make it more efficient in Environmental Party Sweden? It's a picture I don't want to see. I would like to see support for those who are doing the right thing, not bans and coercion and legislation against those who are doing the wrong thing that way.
i-4YFeNWxKHRvE4SzDHc3Bp9	Madam President, I would like I think Rickard Nordin has misunderstood. What I'm talking about is a obligation for energy companies, so I think he just misunderstood that. That said, there is a huge difference between the Green Party and the Center Party in terms of distribution policy. The Green Party does not think that we should strongly subsidise the lives of rich people. That is, of course, the consequence of the alliance policy that was run back in the day and that the Center Party really wants to push forward in different ways by making a lot of deductions directed to the upper class. We're against that. Rather, we want to redirect some of the subsidies so that we benefit those who do not have as much money in their wallets. That said, we do not want to scrap the root deduction. I am simply saying that most of the centre-party policy has been to direct subsidies to the upper classes. That seems to us to be the reverse. We think that people should be able to stay in their million-dollar programme when renovations are carried out, for example, and that is why we want to direct the subsidies there.
i-29p3PHfZ3Q2Anw52kYor3m	Madam President, I would like Mr Terawatt-no, Mr Tovatt! I and my party leader wrote in DN about our policy and got a little backlash from, among other things, the Green Party when we identified the problem that we in Sweden have received high electricity prices due to marginal pricing and experiments on the market as well as the EU's view that there should be uniform prices in the EU. The Green Party claims that we should see electricity as any kind of export product in order to crowd out dirty electricity on the continent. That's good. I agree with that – when we are in a position to do so. But in the country I come from and where the Green Party, as Lorentz Tovatt knows, does not exist except in one municipality, we see industry as important. How does the Green Party view what is happening now with giving industry the conditions to get cheap electricity and be able to use hydrogen for the conversion?
i-Nbh7akjjf7MXwGMWWmsTqE	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Birger Lahti, for the question. I have been a strong supporter of the industrial transition that has been going on in recent years and continues to intensify. Much is done thanks to environmental-partisan politics. It is about the increase in the ETS price, it is about the expansion of renewables, and it is about the industrial life, which was, of course, an environmental partisan reform. So I am a warm supporter of it. But what I think is problematic about the new entry of the Left Party into this is precisely this, I shall not say nationalistic but a little protectionist attitude that I am afraid will benefit precisely what Putin wants to achieve with his power politics. Sweden has every opportunity in the world to be a renewable super battery in Europe. We'll take that opportunity. It is simply our duty to contribute that. So, basically, I think it is a good thing that we are a large net exporter and continue to be.
i-ERM2Dgj6FtHwUdevUz1iEy	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Mr Tovatt. I agree that we should, of course, help and be solidarity-based with other countries when we have surpluses. But I also know that we have differences of opinion in my party. It will not be easy to convince rural people in a municipality who are trying to set up a wind farm that here we will blow up 25 spins that are 250 meters high, when we know that the electricity will go to the Germans' conscience and they have not expanded their own. It will not be easy, I can tell the honourable Member. If we first make sure that we manage our industry and jobs and manage to make hydrogen so that the industry can cope with the transition, then we can of course help if we have a surplus. That's what we've been doing historically, for a long time. But marginal pricing does not speak in favour of the policy that we want to introduce, that is to say to extend the renewables a great deal.
i-G5LrhXc3pdiRxBVdfJvfgQ	Madam President, I would like I respect that perspective, but I think there are solutions out of it. Among other things, I have raised the need for energy efficiency. We Swedes actually use a lot of electricity when compared to down on the continent. It's something we can get rid of. We can simply rid ourselves of that need. I would like to highlight a different perspective on this issue, and that is that I want to see a 100% renewable electricity system in Europe. We know that sun and wind complement each other quite well at the continent level. When the wind blows a little less, the sun shines a little more and vice versa. In addition, we know that when there is still wind in southern Sweden it may blow off the coast of Poland. In this way, the different geographical areas complement each other in electricity generation and therefore they become stronger together. In the long term, I think it is good to tie us together with the continent in order to move towards 100% renewable electricity production.
i-XWgwv3BT9tCBskb8BH8fXZ	Madam President, I would like I thank the House for this debate on an important and topical subject. Let me raise my eyes here in the final stages and look ahead. We are now taking off in Sweden by moving from a situation where we have for 30 years used about the same energy consumption to perhaps double, i.e. to a significantly increased energy consumption. We are doing this to free ourselves from the fossil dependence of the oil sheiks in the Middle East and Putin's Russia. We do this to ensure that Sweden becomes the leading country in the climate transition and thereby create growth, prosperity and lots of green jobs throughout the country. In order to do this, the government yesterday presented an electrification strategy that takes a holistic approach. In this debate it has become clear that the opposition has easy to say tulipanaros, that is, nuclear power. Instead, we want the government to see a holistic approach that looks at both the different types of energy and that they will deliver much and cheap electricity that quickly comes into place for Swedish households. This is the way forward for Sweden. Thank you for the debate.
i-9dD61Dzf5bA9TD3sLjj9r7	Madam President, I would like In connection with expulsions of Swedish women linked to IS, Tobias Andersson has asked me what measures the government intends to take to ensure that the returnees do not pose a security threat in Sweden and what role the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has played in enabling women to travel to Sweden. Let me take the latter question first and start by repeating the government's position: there must be no doubt that Sweden is doing what we can to bring children in north-east Syria with a connection to Sweden home. At the same time, it has never been appropriate to bring home women who wish to voluntarily leave the camps, where they are held by the local Kurdish self-government and investigated for crimes, including links to the terrorist organisation IS/ Daish. The Government has continuously kept the Riksdag informed about the expulsions of Swedish women and their children. On 17 June last year, I and the then Minister for the Interior, Mikael Damberg, presented the matter in a composite Committee on Foreign Affairs and Justice. We said then that self-government informed Sweden and other affected states that several criminal investigations were beginning to be completed and that it would therefore be necessary for self-government to expel those women who cannot be prosecuted locally and their accompanying children. The committee was informed of Sweden's obligation to receive those who are Swedish citizens. We also stressed that we have an interest in the safe conduct of expulsions, in accordance with our regulatory framework and international practice, and that this is also important in view of the vulnerable situation of children. No member of the committee objected to this arrangement. I would also like to emphasise that the government has made it clear how the expulsions have been carried out. On 10 September, four days after the first expulsions, I informed the Foreign Affairs Committee of how the Ministry for Foreign Affairs had worked with the local authorities in North-East Syria and the Provincial Government in Erbil. I informed the House that the women themselves will have to bear the flight costs in accordance with the Consular Financial Assistance Act. I concluded the committee meeting by repeating that self-government has informed us and the other states concerned that further expulsions may be expected in the coming months. This was also the case in October when three women and eight children were expelled and, quite recently, on 26 January, when two women and four children were expelled. The government is now awaiting a ruling from the Swedish government on the Swedish women and children who are still being held in the camps. The issue of accountability and prosecution of individuals who have committed crimes in Syria and Iraq is a priority for the government. Upon arrival in Sweden, people who have been expelled from north-eastern Syria are gathered by, among other things, the Swedish Security Service, the Police Authority and the Social Services, who take appropriate measures. Each returnee is assessed individually by the Security Service on the basis of the person's possible intention and ability to commit a terrorist offence or serious violent crime both on the return itself and afterwards. Law enforcement authorities have a well-developed capacity to investigate such crime. For genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes and many cases of terrorist crime, Swedish criminal jurisdiction applies regardless of who has committed such crimes and where they have been committed. Furthermore, since several of the offences are not time-barred, it is also possible to investigate and prosecute them even after a long time has elapsed. The government is working intensively to provide law enforcement authorities with adequate tools to combat serious crimes such as these. One such example is the introduction of the tool secret data reading. The government has also entered into agreements with Unitad, the UN Evidence Collection Mechanism in Iraq, and with IIIM, the UN Evidence Collection for Syria, in order to facilitate our law enforcement authorities to access the vast amount of evidence that IS/ Daish has left behind in the region and that these mechanisms are tasked with collecting.
i-4at2CA9aVdxVcQZHEUrxLB	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your reply from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Sweden has in recent years made itself known as one of the major exporters of terrorists in the West. This, of course, says a lot about the situation in Sweden, not least in relation to governments' failed migration and integration policies. In the aftermath of the IS case, we have again become aware of this as most individuals who have actively chosen to join the terror cult have now returned – and more are to be expected. The Express reported on October 16 that Sweden is expecting ten more so-called IS women who together also bring 20 children. The State Department is also involved in their trip here. I tabled an interpellation on the matter there and then, but in the light of the resignation of the Prime Minister, the debate was suspended. I came back on the same subject, but the debate took some time. Now some time has passed and new tasks have been added. Although there has been some time since I first submitted the interpellation, the issue is unfortunately still topical. Since it was updated last autumn, more IS women have arrived in Sweden. Last week two Swedish IS women and four children from northeastern Syria were expelled to Sweden. They landed on January 27. Women have been arrested suspected of war crimes while children have been cared for by social authorities. It remains to be seen whether these women are released after a while. This was the third group of women expelled from the Kurdish enclave in northeastern Syria. In the past, six women with children have come to Sweden. Some of the IS women who have arrived in Sweden have been given suspicion of crime but still live freely in Swedish society. What risk they pose to law-abiding Swedes is difficult to say, but that, in the light of their participation in a terrorist cult, they do not deserve to live freely among us others, many probably believe. Unfortunately, there is a risk that the individuals concerned will remain in Sweden over time and that we will fail to prosecute them. If we succeed in prosecuting them, there is a risk that we will still not be able to expel them, so that, after the highly hypothetical punishment, they may still be released into society. This, in my opinion, is a betrayal of everyone who has fallen victim to IS terror but also a potential threat to Swedes in Sweden. In this connection, I asked Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde in my interpellation what measures the government intends to take to ensure that the returnees do not pose a security threat in Sweden. I did not understand that I received a clear answer to this, more than that the law enforcement authorities, according to the Minister, have a developed ability to investigate the crime concerned. Can the Foreign Minister promise that none of the women who today move freely pose a security threat? Alternatively, if they do, does the Minister promise that the relevant authorities will keep an eye on them and that no Swede needs to worry?
i-XjvPZaBKWbYHwnbXncz34p	Madam President, I would like Tobias Andersson touches on the work against terrorism and the threat it poses. Let me then explain how the government works against terrorism. We have a national strategy against terrorism that is the starting point for Sweden's long-term work in this area. The strategy aims to create a clear structure for the work needed to prevent violent extremism and counter terrorist crime. The broad political agreements on counter-terrorism in 2015 and 2017 are also important cornerstones. The majority of the measures decided have also been implemented. As an example, several authorities on behalf of the government have developed support and guidance for various actors, for example for staff working in schools, social services or prison services. Centres against violent extremism at the Crime Prevention Council are developing knowledge-based and cross-sectoral efforts to prevent violent extremism at national, regional and local level, including by providing needs-oriented support to local actors, through a hub of knowledge and by contributing to a higher degree of effectiveness and coordination of prevention efforts. In order to further develop efforts to individuals who are involved in violent extremism or who are convicted of various crimes, the Police Authority, the Prison Service, the National Board of Health and Welfare and the National Board of Institutional Affairs have been commissioned by the Government to strengthen and develop the work of support for defectors from criminal, violent extremist and honorary environments. The aim is, of course, to create long-term sustainable conditions for more individuals to have access to such support. Preventing radicalisation and recruitment to violent extremism and prosecuting individuals who have committed serious crimes in Syria and Iraq are issues that are given high priority by the government and our authorities.
i-ELMNFznNwDr56toGdMKVYj	Madam President, I would like Once again, I thank Ann Linde for her reply, although I did not understand any promise to those who may be concerned about the security threat posed by the individuals concerned in our society when they are allowed to move freely here after having consciously and actively joined one of the most terrible terrorist sects we have seen in modern times. It may come later in the debate. Madam President, I would like I would like to touch on the second issue in my interpellation. It was like this:中 What role has the Ministry of Foreign Affairs played in enabling women to travel to Sweden? ..................................................... This was explained by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his first reply. She said, for example, that there must be no doubt that Sweden is doing what we can to ensure that children in north-east Syria linked to Sweden can be brought home. ..................................................... Ann Linde also mentioned that the women concerned themselves should have borne the cost of flying in accordance with the Consular Financial Assistance Act. We must certainly hope, Madam President, that women who have deliberately chosen to travel and join IS have not received free tickets back to Sweden when they realise that that election was not wise and wish to renounce their participation in this terrorist movement. What has not been answered, however, despite a number of written questions on the matter, is the question of the other costs associated with the travel – not only for the flight itself but for the operation around it. One member who has repeatedly asked Ann Linde this question is the Swedish Democrat Björn Söder, who wanted to receive answers about the total cost several times without success. Among other things, he wrote in a written question: The background to the question is that the government has made it easier for the three terrorists and their children to come back to Sweden. With a Swedish delegation in place, consisting of experienced diplomats, security personnel and a pediatrician, they were helped by helping them get from Rojlägret in northeastern Syria to the airport, where they could fly back to Sweden. The transport between the camp and the airport, the staff and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs are, of course, a burden on the Swedish state, and this should therefore be stated publicly to the Swedish taxpayer. ..................................................... This is what Björn Söder expressed himself when he wanted to know what this cost. Ann Linde is certainly careful to point out that the IS women have paid for their flight tickets but refuse to answer the question of the other, probably significantly higher costs that Swedish taxpayers have borne on behalf of IS women. Does Ann Linde want to answer that question now? If she cannot, can she at least admit that she understands that there are taxpayers who wish to know to what extent they financed trips to Sweden for women who joined one of the worst terrorist sects we have ever seen?
i-6UkM6ooa5o1d5Z7EXJX9NJ	Madam President, I would like What I think ordinary people do not understand is the emotional cold that the Swedish democrats show to these poor children over and over again. The children's perspective is constantly shining with its absence in your debates, your written questions and your interpellations. Let me say what we mean by trying to help the children. It has not been possible to separate the children from the guardians in the camps. Local self-government has said that it is against. It refers to the principle of family unity in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. However, exceptions to this principle can be made when there are special humanitarian reasons if the mother has given explicit consent. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has asked the mothers, and they have not wanted to give such consent. Therefore, we have not been able to bring the children home even though we have had the children as our top priority. That's the answer to those questions. I'm glad we have that perspective. With the three expulsions that have now taken place, it may be appropriate to underline, 18 Swedish children who have been very marked by their camp presence in the Syria conflict will be home to Sweden, where they are taken care of, placed in foster homes and receive care. The vicious circle with the risk of the children being radicalized in the camps is broken. That should even be understood by the Swedish Democrats. Unfortunately, it may be necessary to say that these children are actually completely innocent. They cannot be linked to the parents' poor life choices and the crimes they are now suspected of. I would also like to stress that, from a security perspective, the Security Service believes that this type of controlled expulsion is preferable to women coming here after running away, as some women have actually done, because it is much more difficult to control them. It is difficult to have any objection to this. The alternative is that we get an unregulated smuggling of women into Sweden, without having control of them. It wouldn't be responsible. We have been clear about all this. We have informed the Riksdag several times. Then the Swedish Democrats have shown this interest without caring about either the children or the safety aspects. It's irresponsible and callous. Madam President, I would like To dispel any misconceptions when you populistly ask what it all costs, I would like to say that these women and children have travelled regularly and are liable for the tickets. They have lived in Erbil while they were waiting to arrive on the plane, which was funded by the authorities there. It is a matter of simplified service in terms of repayment and so on, and if you do not pay back, the matter will be returned to the Swedish Enforcement Authority. When it comes to local transport, of course, I will not give any details about exactly where they go, what they cost and so on. It's about the security situation in the area. In fact, even the Swedish democrats realise, after all, that this is reasonable.
i-8eEQpXyPSbfiWPwCjVWVpJ	Madam President, I would like I am accused by the Foreign Minister of being callous on an issue in which we are discussing a terrible terror cult, which has ended the lives of an incredible number and has caused an enormous amount of suffering to more people, taken over large regions and tortured, raped and murdered. Yes, Madam President, it is probably a correct description that I do not feel much feelings for those who have taken part in these acts – that my heart is not pounding for those who have taken part in the slaughter and violence that has taken place in Syria and the surrounding area. It is a correct description of the Minister for Foreign Affairs that I have a certain cold of emotion towards these perpetrators; I acknowledge that, Madam President. Because I have actually spoken about the IS women, those who have deliberately chosen to join. That's where I've put emphasis and focus. I haven't explicitly touched on the children, which Ann Linde is trying to get rid of. But absolutely- I can admit that I am cold when it comes to the well-being of terrorists. However, I have not yet received an answer regarding the total cost of this operation. I understand that it is not possible to disclose exactly how the persons concerned have been transported or to say the exact cost. However, Swedish taxpayers would like to know at least the total amount – no details but just the figure of what they have funded on behalf of potential terrorists. Furthermore, the fact that an IS woman has been prosecuted in January for, among other things, urging her son to be a child soldier indicates that there are children who are guilty of this too and who have participated in regular warfare. I'll stay there because time's running out.
i-F4c9VYbgiuyhKQcsSqb4CA	Madam President, I would like It is in front of the children that Tobias Andersson shows a cynical emotional cold. I have said from the beginning, and I say it again: we have been careful to keep Parliament informed of the situation of children in north-east Syria. There has never been a question of bringing back the women who voluntarily want to leave the camps. These women have travelled to Syria contrary to the clear advice of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and have in one way or another joined the terrorist organisation IS/ Daish. We have worked intensively and turned every stone around for the sake of the children, so that they can be brought to Sweden whenever possible. This intensive consular work will continue until all children have been brought home and come to safety and the radicalisation circle that has been going on has been broken. The self-governance responsible for the camps keeps women there to investigate crimes and, if possible, prosecute them on the ground. When these investigations have been completed, self-government has in some cases informed us that women must be expelled when there is insufficient evidence. Then we do what we have an obligation to: bring home Swedish citizens, especially the children, in a safe way so that Swedish citizens can feel confident that Säpo and the Police Authority have them under control and that social authorities take care of the children. It is a responsible way of dealing with this situation.
i-DKfrZ71csCzCSuhcisKzeQ	Madam President, I would like Joar Forssell has asked me whether we and the government, preferably together with other countries, will do to highlight the fact that companies are actively involved in marketing and selling cutting-edge technologies that are used against opposition and democracy activists abroad. He has also asked me how I intend to ensure that the government's proposal for a new regulatory framework (Ds 2021:32) on dual-use items prevents situations similar to those described in the report. Finally, he has asked whether the last few years' aggressive persecution of oppositional and democratic activists in Hong Kong in any way alters my and the Swedish government's strategic support for democracy activists in Hong Kong. Let me answer the questions in that order. On the first question, the Government expects companies operating in Sweden or abroad to respect human rights in all their activities. This means that companies must act to prevent their activities from causing, contributing to, or being linked to, violations of human rights. As regards the second question on Ds 2021:32 on dual-use items, I would like to make it clear at the outset that the political responsibility for export control within the government lies not with me but with Minister Morgan Johansson. A revised version of the EU Dual-Use Export Control Regulation, the PDA Regulation, entered into force in September 2021. The news that is most relevant from Joar Forssell's interpellation is that the control area is expanded to include the export of cybermonitoring products. The purpose of the extended control is to manage the risk of such products being used in the context of internal repression or for committing serious violations of human rights and international humanitarian law. It is not a question of imposing a ban on the export of these products outside the EU; it is a requirement for authorisation, if applicable, before export is allowed. The Government has assessed that the new regulation is within the framework of Sweden's objective that the EU should have strict, effective and modern export control in the field of PDA. Like all EU regulations, the PDA Regulation has been fully applicable in Sweden since its entry into force. The competent authorities, i.e. the Inspection of Strategic Products and the Radiation Safety Authority, are therefore already applying the provisions of the Regulation in the ongoing licensing and supervision activities. Finally, on Hong Kong – a democratic space in Hong Kong has been reduced, and individuals' enjoyment of human rights is being increasingly curtailed, which is a matter of great concern. Sweden and the EU have expressed our views on several occasions to, among other things, Chinese representatives and also in statements. The High Representative of the European Union for Foreign and Security Policy, Mr Borrell, after the elections to the Hong Kong Legislative Assembly on 19 December 2021, expressed concern at the negative development of democratic principles and political pluralism in Hong Kong. The government supports that statement. The European Union, like myself, spoke after the crackdown on independent media at the end of December last year. In July 2020, EU Member States agreed on a number of Council conclusions on Hong Kong which set out a series of concrete measures in response to events. The measures include reviewing and limiting exports of sensitive equipment and technologies, increasing support for civil society and student exchanges, and continuing to attend trials against representatives of the democratic movement. As regards the important recommendation made by the Council to ensure that the EU continues to follow trials against representatives of Hong Kong's democratic movement, Sweden has been a driving force in implementation. At the initiative of Sweden, the Member States that have missions in place have been included and a division of responsibilities has been established. The government continues to push the importance of this participation. I have also had meetings and direct contact with representatives of the Hong Kong democracy movement to get firsthand information and express my support. The government is working towards continued clear EU-wide action.
i-DsCwVKifXwSHBX1fNnK6JR	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. When you listen to the Social Democrats you get the impression that they have weight old man, you know one of those old men that you did when you were a kid. Someone drew a piece and folded it. Then someone drew the next piece and continued to fold. A little bit, this is the answer. First, the Government says that it expects all companies to behave, whether they are Swedish or, for that matter, Chinese and wherever in the world they act. However, when I continue to listen to the speech of the Government, when there is further weight, I am told that action is needed for businesses to behave. So you can't assume that they're doing their job from the start. In that case, the measures which were then lined up would not have been necessary in the first instance. Then the old man continues, and so says the Government that we have presented our vision. That's the usual talk about us sending angry letters. But the next folding of the bay man states that the space for democracy continues to decline. Then it does not seem that the angry letters and the times when we presented our vision have worked very well. It is clear that Sweden will say what we stand for. It is clear that we should push ahead in Europe. All the things the Government says are good things. But it is obvious that it is not enough. You hear that when it is said in the interpellation response that the space for democracy is being reduced. The old man continues to fold. After it has been said that companies should behave themselves, it is stated that the government has certainly wanted to implement measures and indeed has done so. Some measures have been implemented at EU level, and it is positive that Sweden has contributed to this. At the same time, however, we can see – as you can also hear in the speech – that China is using this type of product to oppress people. Of course, this is happening not only in Hong Kong but throughout China. Hong Kong is a clear example, Xinjiang another. So this is going to be a little strange. It is a speech and an interpellation response which, to say the least, is contradictory. It contradicts itself within itself. It is clear that there is no one on the Swedish side who is negative about us trusting companies. There is no one on the Swedish side who is negative for us to say what Sweden stands for and for us to express our view. There is no one on the Swedish side who is negative about having tough controls on dangerous products. But oppression continues. People are oppressed today. There are large labor camps, concentration camps, in Xinjiang where slave labour is going on. In Hong Kong, newspapers and democracy activists are being threatened, kept away, imprisoned and disappeared on a continuous basis. Outside Taiwan, the Chinese war drums rumble. China's actions continue, despite these things. My question is how the Government sees all these problems continuing and how Sweden will act. What can we do? What does the Government intend to do to act even more forcefully in the future and actually bring about a real change? If the measures described by the Government do not work and if it turns out that China continues its repression of people in the outside world, how will Sweden act to increase the pressure on China and bring about a real change?
i-TouAU1HiiH9UnEoTVhAsur	Madam President, I would like I don't understand Joar Forssell's folding manalogy, so I'm gonna skip it. Besides, I don't understand his logic-- if it doesn't work with all the powerful actions that I have now outlined in a long interpellation response, are we not going to take them? It's really weird. When it comes to questioning that companies comply with this, it is of course that it is the responsibility of Swedish companies to comply with laws and regulations. Export control of dual-use items is a complex issue. It's a technically demanding area. You need special expertise from the companies. We have a compliance programme for this. It is called the International Compliance Programme and is necessary for exporting companies to keep track of product classification, end-use and possible risks. Here the business organisation has a role to play. The Swedish Export Control Association has done many years of work together with ISP's experts to train individual entrepreneurs in export control, which can be very complicated. It is important for our export industry that they do right and comply with regulations, and I believe that Swedish companies want to do so. You don't want to act negatively. In addition, ISP has made specific information efforts towards industry concerning, for example, the new PDA Regulation. For example, there was a virtual seminar in October. There is also a so-called "outreach" at EU level for companies to develop guidelines for exporters on precisely cybermonitoring products. In fact, I think that only recently very much has been done to make companies even better at stopping things that we do not want to be able to use for repression of the democracy movement, journalists and human rights activists in Hong Kong.
i-9h7WVxE7D9zvWEBjPwUPQc	Madam President, I would like Once again, I thank the Government for her reply. It is strange – one thing I said very clearly in my last speech was that I am pleased with the actions presented in the Government's interpellation responses. I think it is positive that Sweden is doing these things. My question was: if they do not work, what will Sweden do further to put pressure on the dictatorship in China? If it does not work to send more angry letters week after week, if it does not work repeatedly to impose various forms of sanctions that may not hit right, what will the government do to put further pressure on China to end the various forms of oppression that the Chinese dictatorship stands for? I think it is positive that the government is doing things. I also think it is positive that the European Union is doing things. The government knows that, too. We have had this debate several times before. The Swedish companies talked about in their last speech, but in the interpellation answer she actually talked about companies in general. Swedish companies were not mentioned at the time, but were talked about companies in Sweden and the world. That means every company. Vikmananalogien was about a man like this changing for every fold. That's exactly what happened here. On the one hand, the government says we send a lot of angry letters. On the other hand, the Government says that it does not work and that the space for democracy continues to decrease. On the one hand, the Government says: We expect companies to behave. On the other hand, the Government says: We introduce tougher rules. That's how it goes. The interpellation response contradicts itself on a point-by-point basis. Unfortunately, I think that Sweden's policy does not work, although it is dressed in beautiful words and can sound tough. The repression in China continues. But in the toolbox, we still have tools that we don't use. Sweden is not boycotting the Olympics, which are going on right now. We have not imposed tough sanctions on a wide range of leaders, bureaucrats and others who are responsible for what is happening in China. This could be done in a way that really hurts and puts pressure. We have not done as Taiwan, for example, and imposed a ban on Chinese investments in Sweden in strategic areas. These could be infrastructure, electricity supply and other important strategic areas. Nor have we supported our Baltic neighbour Lithuania enough when they have taken a stand against China. Sweden's China policy is obviously not strong enough, and it is sad when countries such as Denmark, Canada, the UK, Australia, the United States, Lithuania and Japan choose to boycott the Olympic Games while Sweden stands outside and says We wait passively for something to happen, but nothing happens. Then we must act tougher and not join those countries that choose not to act. Let me emphasise that I support a large part of the work done by the government. You just haven't done enough. My question therefore remains: what will the government and the government do in addition to what has already been done and do if the repression in China persists and continues to worsen day by day?
i-SwFnWDuZfjw42fE2PMRpE9	Madam President, I would like Joar Forssell should be too good to ralinate over aggressive letters. How does he think diplomatic work is done? Yes, we are making strong diplomatic markings and following them up with concrete measures, as we are doing. You can always joke about it in the Riksdag and talk about that Sweden only sends a lot of letters. But Joar Forssell knows it's not about that and tries to score cheap political points. Shouldn't we have supported Lithuania? Has Joar Forssell completely missed that the Lithuanian Foreign Minister was here? Perhaps Joar Forsell was at lunch, even. The Minister for Foreign Affairs was extremely clear about how grateful you are to the Swedish Government for the support you have received in this particular and on all other issues where we support Lithuania in a concrete way. Joar Forssell should be too good to make such a lie. Of course, we are trying in every way to influence China, but one should not think that it is easy. Joar Forssell lists a number of countries that he claims are officially boycotting the Olympics, but it is not true that all these countries are doing so. Not being present is one thing; neither do we. We will not have a representative on site at the Olympic Games in China. We have been very clear that we must continue to support civil society, continue to have export restrictions and continue with the restrictive measures. We are a driving force in this discussion, and we have been in direct contact with the democracy movement, journalists and human rights defenders in Hong Kong, among other things, to see what more we can do to support them. Standing here and saying that we're not doing anything and that we don't want to go on and ralliing over our work isn't okay.
i-VAm4i3EZu69MVDxRfww1X9	Madam President, I would like I said the government sent angry letters. I hope the letters are quite angry and upset, because the crimes that China is committing are incredibly serious. I am not saying that I am against this, as the Government makes it sound, but I note that it does not seem enough. My question, therefore, is what the government should do more. The Government said in a previous speech that I have dissed what the government did. I didn't. I think they are good, and I have said that in every speech. But I wonder what the government will do more if it turns out it's not enough. Nor did I say that Sweden has not supported Lithuania. I said we haven't supported Lithuania enough. But it took the Council of State as revenue to lie about what I have said here in the pulpit. Of course we have supported Lithuania, because that is our damn duty! But we need to do more, and we can do more by joining and driving the wave of countries in the world that now have a tougher policy against China. These are sanctions against individuals and bans on various forms of investment, i.e. measures that actually feel. I am and remain a strong supporter of the work of this government and of all other governments to introduce more of the actions of the Government. But I am not a supporter of the government asking the democracy movement what more you can do but cannot answer my question here in the Riksdag: What else will the government do?
i-Bku38H6mFLsSzD9YgqZkbN	Madam President, I would like It is important that we in the European Union continue to pay attention to the negative developments in Hong Kong, that we act in agreement and that we implement the concrete measures agreed by the European Union in 2020. It's happening more and more. One of these measures is that Member States should carefully review and limit exports of sensitive technical equipment for so-called cyber surveillance when there are grounds for suspecting unwanted use linked to internal repression. As I mentioned in my reply, a revised version of the EU regulation on export controls on dual-use items came into force last September. The most relevant news from Joar Forssell's interpellation is that the control area is extended to include cybermonitoring products. It's an example of us doing more. In the memo that I told you about in connection with the new PDA regulation, we also analyse the referrals for how to proceed. We continue to be a driving force, not least when it comes to following the trials against representatives of the democratic movement. Sweden has been there the most times. When the opportunity is offered, it is also important to have direct contact with representatives of the democracy movement, the trade union movement, journalists and human rights defenders to see how we can continue to do more for them in different ways.
i-GhLm7M89WYfRFkpddAHrZu	Madam President, I would like Helena Storckenfeldt has asked me whether I intend to take any steps to clarify the Swedish security policy analysis of Vattenfall's agreement with Rosatom and, if so, what. Sweden's and the EU's energy supply is seen from a security policy perspective. The Government conducts ongoing analyses of the security policy situation, including its consequences for Sweden's critical infrastructure and energy supply. The government has also expressed concern that the EU is making itself too dependent on Russian energy supplies. Russia has used energy as a means of political power. Not least in the current circumstances, Russia's use of the whole safety policy toolbox needs to be analysed. This makes Sweden and the EU continuously. In the case of individual companies, both state and private, the basic principle is that the State does not identify which suppliers to use. Vattenfall is a company operating on market terms and must therefore operate under the same conditions and enjoy the same opportunities as other companies on the market. Supplier management is a responsibility for the company's board and management. Vattenfall itself has stated that they are currently purchasing fuel elements from several suppliers, and they have a guiding principle of not tying themselves to a supplier to ensure fuel supply. The company has to comply with the regulations that exist within Sweden and the EU when it comes to doing business with other countries.
i-P7DAnkGbudCsPXVPx2njSu	Madam President, I would like The question of the agreement with Tvel has been up in Parliament several times, starting in 2012, when current Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist, then a member, asked the question to the alliance government. Hultqvist wrote, among other things, "The question is whether it is a Swedish national interest to contribute to this in the light of the fact that the EU is now trying to reduce its dependence on Russian energy." He also wondered what security policy considerations the then government had taken. The answer then was the same as that heard today, despite the fact that the security situation has been brought to a head. Even then, we were in an uncertain position, but that is nothing compared to the Russian aggression we are seeing today. Russia is not like any neighbouring country, and Rosatom is not like any other supplier. Rosatom has sometimes been referred to as a state with 250 000 employees, a management directly appointed by Putin and the goal of expanding globally and becoming an important player in all areas related to nuclear power. They are also deeply involved in Russia's nuclear programme. One might think that an analysis of the situation is not so much required. The subsidiary Tvel struggled for a long time to enter the European market for fuel for pressurised water reactors. Western operators did not want to open up to the company, which meant that the market was closed, and the EU adopted a resolution to reduce its dependence on Russian energy. But when it comes to Sweden we have no problem opening up and helping as best we can. The Minister for Foreign Affairs says that the government continuously analyses the security policy situation, including the consequences for Sweden's critical infrastructure and energy supply. She also notes that Russia uses energy as a political means of power and that the government has expressed concern that the EU is becoming increasingly dependent on Russian energy supplies. I therefore wonder: where is the analysis of this? The EU mentions Rosatom by name and warns against the company, and after the great media attention the issue has received in recent weeks, one cannot claim that the problems are unknown. Russia is in a conflict with the Western world today, and they are not in the least shy to use the entire toolbox to achieve their political goals. Rosatom with Putin at the head is celebrating the agreement. They sincerely write in the newsletter that Vattenfall has played a key role in Russia's plans. This doesn't feel good. While Russia mobilizes, Sweden rearranges and the Minister for Foreign Affairs receives threatening letters from Lavrov, we have an agreement on nuclear fuel supplies from a company that is considered an extension of the Russian state. Peter Hultqvist said during Question Time last week that it was good and important for the issue to be raised. I therefore wonder whether Ann Linde sees the problems and whether she agrees with her colleague.
i-Wiv5XDLM5PEbrBAR1wVU1W	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by saying, of course, that I agree with my colleague, Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. The government has now answered several times parliamentary questions about Vattenfall's imports of nuclear fuel from Russia and about the security policy aspects. I would like to take this opportunity to confirm that Sweden's and the EU's energy supply needs to be viewed from a security policy perspective. We even had a discussion on this when we invited the EEA Head of Mission to discuss energy supply and security policy aspects with EU Foreign Ministers a few months ago. I repeat that the government is carrying out ongoing analyses of the security policy situation, including the consequences for Sweden's critical infrastructure and energy supply. In this context, we note that there may be undesirable security policy implications of the acquisition of nuclear fuel from state-owned Russian companies. We have also expressed our concern that Europe is making itself dependent. This does not affect Sweden as much as it affects many others, who also have oil and natural gas, which we do not have, but it does make this discussion extremely topical in the EU and that it is being given more and more attention. Nevertheless, in the case of individual state or private companies, the basic principle is that the State should not identify which suppliers to use. In addition to Russia, which has delivered fuel to Sweden for 40 years, it is French, American and Spanish companies that are important fuel suppliers to Vattenfall's facilities. Vattenfall's purchasing strategy is in line with the EU's efforts to achieve a more diversified supply in order to avoid these needs. There is indeed an awareness of this complexity in the Government Office, and it is clear that the basis for our security of supply must be a robust energy system based on a diversified energy mix, a functioning energy market and a reduction in the EU's unilateral dependence on a third country.
i-T49YugDRadm6UqvqhpQ1zp	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answers. I think it is good to hear that the Minister agrees with his colleague and that there may be problems here. I think it is important to go into more aspects than the problems that have arisen in relation to Russian energy supplies to other countries in order to sort out this particular issue. I fully understand that it is a matter for Vattenfall's management and that it complies with the laws and regulations that apply in Sweden and the EU. I also fully understand that it is not the task of the state to identify which suppliers individual companies should use, but that is not really the issue here. The question concerns the reasonableness of the fact that we in Sweden are opening up to Russia's ambitions of power in a way that other countries have said no to for security reasons. At the same time, we are equipping our defenses and preparing for what is to come. We are currently in the absolute worst security situation in decades, and all I am looking for is an analysis of the agreement so that we can get it black and white what it means for the security of Sweden and Europe. Then I have not even gone into the question of giving Tvel – once again: Putin-led – a lot of critical information about our nuclear power plants. They had staff on site in Ringhals in my county last autumn. In the case of Huawei, there was no problem with shutting out the company's products from Swedish 5G networks. Security reasons were given at the time. The link between Huawei and the Chinese state could have consequences and cause harm to Sweden's security, they said. But now, when it comes to Russia's increased influence, transparency of our infrastructure and advances in power positions globally, it is taking a step backwards and referring to compliance with all the rules. Certainly, all the rules have been followed, but I question the worst that no one, either at Vattenfall or at the Government Office, has been struck by the idea that this particular issue should perhaps be looked at. Is it not reasonable to have an analysis of how this can affect Sweden if it can continue?
i-53gt65MRwjiufENUs24DAc	Madam President, I would like As I have said to Helena Storckenfeldt several times, we see that this can have security policy effects. That's why we've analyzed it. Let me, since there are certainly many people listening to this, say something about why it is complicated. This is because Vattenfall has since 2010 been commissioned by the Riksdag to conduct energy business so that the company becomes part of the companies that lead the development towards environmentally sustainable energy production. Companies with state ownership – this also applies to other Swedish limited companies – are governed by the Companies Act, and the Board is responsible for how the companies are organized and managed. This means that the Government, as owner in the governance of Vattenfall, shall not take any measures that are contrary to the parliamentary mandate that Vattenfall should act in a commercial manner. As Vattenfall is a company operating on market terms, it must have the same opportunities and requirements as other companies have on the market. This is a responsibility for the company's board of directors and management. The Government requires companies with state ownership to act exemplaryly in areas of sustainable entrepreneurship and to have confidence. This includes that they should be transparent, that they should be strategic, that they should have responsible supplier management and that they should follow international guidelines. As far as nuclear fuel trading is concerned, there are several regulations and guidelines that the Euratom Supply Agency, the International Atomic Energy Agency and so on have set up. And Vattenfall is currently buying fuel elements from several different suppliers, as I said. This is very important in order to avoid becoming dependent on individual countries. But with these explanations, we see, of course, and are constantly analysing, that this can have a security policy effect. That is why it is a very important issue to deal with in the Government Office.
i-EoQdYFh3aP7S9GYCiXw5iC	Madam President, I would like I thank the Foreign Minister for his answers. I feel that the Minister for Foreign Affairs thinks that this has been analysed. Then I wonder what was found. And why have not all the times this question has been asked in this House answered with that analysis? A year ago, our two parties supported the European Parliament's resolution against Russia. Mr Rosatom was particularly pointed out there, and the EU Member States were urged to stop dealing with this Russian company. Security reasons were given. Yet we stand here today. As I said, the issue has been raised time and again not only by Members but also by Svenska Dagbladet, Dagens Nyheter and Sveriges Radio. In an interview with Swedish Radio, questions were asked about the agreement to Ove Nilsson, CEO of Vattenfall Nuclear Fuel. When asked what Vattenfall thinks about having played a key role as a door opener in the Russian plans, he answers: Yes, it has become so. He goes on to say that the main focus was to find a third supplier. There's nothing weird about that. I'll buy that. Companies, both state and private, operate on market terms and should have the same market opportunities. Vattenfall has made its assessment, but ultimately it is the government that is responsible for Sweden's safety, not Vattenfall. Several experts at Totalförsvarets forskningsinstitut point to problems: They have representatives in place in our infrastructure. Sweden legitimises the company. And the energy companies in Russia can easily be used as a political lever. The whole affair and handling has been called highly inappropriate and naive. Madam President, I would like I hope I have been clear enough so that the issue may be raised at the next government meeting.
i-BoJQqcvQed44TTJRJc3PJj	Madam President, I would like I thank Helena Storckenfeldt for the interpellation debate. This is a very complex issue. At the same time, Rosatom has been doing this for over 40 years to Sweden, under very complicated conditions. We are very aware of the importance of security of energy supply for our citizens, for industry and for business. We are also very aware that there are security policy effects, sustainability perspectives and economic effects. At the same time, we cannot leave the basic principle that it is not the state that should identify the suppliers that individual companies have. However, as I have said before, we are calling on companies to act exemplaryly in these areas. And in fact, I assume that Vattenfall is very aware that these are issues that you have to be very thorough and transparent with and that you think strategically. It has also been said that one understands that it is very important to diversify when buying fuel elements so that one is not dependent on a company, in this case Rosatom. I feel that Vattenfall is aware of and works with this.
i-Xz4mhMKTWS8PwV9yhmWZyg	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked me whether I intend to take any steps, based on the Government's ambition to review the municipal veto, to ensure that a dialogue is conducted with stakeholders where a wind farm is to be built. Furthermore, Alexandra Anstrell has asked me whether I intend to review the possibility of developing and setting a minimum and maximum limit for how much a municipality should contribute to electricity supply and whether I have any plans to develop national guidelines for possible rural resources. She has also asked me whether I intend to take any steps to test wind farms for the delivery of net CO2 savings and the contribution to the objective of fossil freedom in 2045. The question has also been asked how I intend to work towards increased energy efficiency in an increasingly electrified Sweden, where more electricity will be needed in the future. As regards the question of whether I intend to take any steps, based on the Government's ambition to review the municipal veto, to ensure that a dialogue is conducted with interested parties where a wind farm is to be built, I would like to refer to the study on increased predictability in the environmental testing of wind power set up by the previous government. The investigation concerns the municipal power of wind power according to the Environmental Code. The investigation has made proposals that are now being prepared in the Government Office. On the question of minimum and maximum limits for the contribution of a municipality to the supply of electricity, there are no plans to introduce such limits or requirements for extension. However, a municipality can plan for wind power in its municipality by specifying the appropriate area for wind power in its master plan. As there is now a review of the municipal power of wind power, I would like to await the outcome of this work before speaking on the issue of national guidelines for rural resources. In recent years there has been rapid technological development in the wind power sector, and costs have fallen. Wind power is now expanding sharply, and I expect that further expansion will help to make the climate transition possible. Through electrification of transport and industry, fossil fuels can be phased out so that we have net zero emissions in 2045. As Alexandra Anstrell points out, an increasingly electrified Sweden means an increased need for electricity generation, but also the development of our electricity grids is required for a well-functioning energy system. There is also a need for a variety of other measures, and energy efficiency is one of them. Work is under way on a national electrification strategy that will take a holistic approach to the conditions in the energy sector for rapid, smart and socio-economic electrification to contribute to the 2030, 2040 and 2045 climate targets. Finally, I would like to point out that I intend to continue to follow the issue of wind power closely and to promote coexistence between wind power and other interests and to exploit the potential of wind power production contributing effectively to Sweden becoming one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries.
i-K6cJJV7PrtN5Ksjndts7aQ	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. As the Minister said, the government appointed a special investigator to investigate the conditions for removing the provision on the municipal veto in the field of wind power. The Government has expressed a positive opinion in the media about pushing the municipal veto to boost wind power expansion. But in the same article, it did not seem that the minister wants it to be built in his municipality of residence, Nacka. For me, it is extremely important that we highlight both the advantages and disadvantages of wind power expansion. It is about what it means in a broader perspective, in terms of Sweden's future energy supply and our preparedness, as well as for the people who live or will live near wind farms and for the environmental, leisure and cultural values that are affected. Wind power, like any other power supply, needs to be highlighted from different angles in order to ensure that we make the right choices for the future in the best possible way. I recently read an article on wind power where I think the title was: Let our children inherit a nature that we need not be ashamed of. We need to carry this with us so that we really make the right choice for the future. The Minister spoke earlier today about the importance of there being acceptance of the energy class. Would it not be good to pause for a while and give an overview to identify the best and most appropriate and least effective solutions for energy production and electricity consumption? Madam President, I would like I am also involved in the horse industry, among other things with the Horse Party Podcast. In the equestrian sport there is something called making a half halt. This means that one does not stop completely but prepares the horse and makes it aware that something new is going to happen. I believe that we need to do a half point in terms of the large-scale wind power expansion, in which the S-MP government has been very proactive. I think that more research is needed to land in if we really make the right choice for the future. Issues such as noise and infrasound are emerging– how does it affect people and animals? It is also a question of microplastics, as the large-scale expansion of wind power may become a significant source of microplastic proliferation. Are we prepared for that? How are reindeer, humans, and lands affected by it? What is the effect of wind power on birds, bats and other animals, and how are reindeer and predators affected when they spend a long time with wind power around their baits and regular routes? Is it really tricky with wind power in our cold climate, and what happens when ice is formed on the leaves and ice shoes are thrown away? In view of the things falling to the ground, how is the land around a wind farm affected by a deportation? Madam President, I would like I think we need to know more. But what we do know is that the electricity bill is affected, which has been debated in this House today. Electricity prices in southern Sweden could have been 30 – 45 percent lower in autumn 2021 if we had hypothetically had both Ringhals 1 and Ringhals 2 left in operation; this shows the new study carried out by energy researchers in collaboration with Ea Energianalyse. Replacing Ringhals 1 and 2 with sea wind could have given the same average price but with greater variations within the period, of course depending on the wind and cold. Madam President, I would like We Moderates think it's good with electricity even when it doesn't blow. Wouldn't the Minister agree?
i-Nc8wyfzU9xapkmkrfxwRym	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your speech, Alexandra Anstrell. It is important for municipalities to be given incentives in the future to review how they can contribute to the fact that we have many energy sources and a lot of energy in this country. I do not think that the way forward is the one that Alexandra Anstrell points out, that is, that we should not invest in more energy production. Our expert authorities expect us to move towards a situation where Sweden will consume perhaps twice as much energy within 30 years. The way forward is not to produce more electricity. Sweden – industry, industry and Swedish households – deserves us to stand up and deliver for a better future. To close Sweden down in the way Alexandra Anstrell's solution would mean is not the way forward. Then again we hear the moderate rhetoric that nuclear power, this tulipanarosis, would solve all problems in a magical way. I am very familiar with the report referred to by Alexandra Anstrell, but I am also aware of other reports – not least from Mrs Sweco – which point in exactly the opposite direction, that is, the nuclear power that the market put in precisely because it was unprofitable would not have affected prices very much today. I note that there are different wills when one counts on this in different ways and that different researchers arrive at different conclusions. However, what I can say, which is not theoretical, but really based on it, is that when we have calculated nuclear power quite often we have underestimated the costs compared to what they have proved to be in reality. And every time you have counted on wind power, you have overestimated the costs compared to reality. Let us look at our neighbouring country, Finland, which 16 years later has got a reactor in place that starts in the days: In addition to the huge delay of 16 years, the reactor supplies electricity that is three to four times more expensive than the electricity from the Swedish wind turbines. Look at France's new reactor in Flamanville: The electricity will be up six, maybe seven, times more expensive than the electricity produced by Swedish wind power. But I'm gonna give them a right: they're planable and work even when it doesn't blow. In the 80's it was thought that the only way to bring music was to have it on a cassette tape and put it in a Walkman Walkman. Much has happened in the music industry since the 1980s, Madam President. Let me inform the Moderates that much has happened on the energy side as well. In the 1980s it was believed that nuclear power plants in southern Sweden were the only way to have planned electricity and electricity generation when it does not blow, but today we see that there are completely new energy systems. Storage of energy in fuel, such as hydrogen, makes it possible to produce energy when there is a lot of wind or when we have a surplus of electricity and use it when it does not blow. Yesterday we presented an electrification strategy that takes a holistic approach to the electricity market and Sweden's future energy production, where industry and industry and other actors interact with the policy to ensure that we meet the requirements we have later on. I also note that there is no one in the market who believes in the Moderate solution. The Moderates have zero crowns in their budget to build nuclear power plants, and there are just as many companies out there – namely zero – who are prepared to take their money and put them in new nuclear power plants in Sweden. For its future atomic plant, Finland has been forced to take in Rosatom as part-financer. It is not a future I see for Sweden.
i-8tuEpoGR2VgerBW3i2CMmS	Madam President, I would like Yes, it is cool with development and when things really move forward! Sweden has been a leader in a lot of development on this earth. I also believe that it is important to have cooperation between the state and the business community. Madam President, I would like The solution in my speech never had anything to do with less electricity consumption, as the Minister is trying to say, but I wanted more research. I believe that this is one of the most important keys for us to be able to develop our energy supply in the future so that it is sustainable and so that we are prepared. In our society, we trust that electricity will work. A blackout today causes quite a lot more trouble than it did just 30 years ago. Only in the townhouse area where I live are all terraced houses heated by electricity. We are some who have put in the stove, but otherwise it is electric heated houses. In quite large areas of my municipality it is so. There are also many municipalities that do not have sufficient reserve power for their old and many regions that do not have sufficient reserve power for their sick. Shopping in the store or pumping up fuel also requires electricity. This calls for a functioning electricity supply regardless of peace, crisis or war. Madam President, I would like Of the 100 billion invested in new wind power in Sweden in recent years, Sweden accounts for only a fraction. The rest is abroad. We have Germany, which dominates by 21 billion, followed by France, the United Kingdom, Switzerland and China. I wonder what analyses the government has made about this compared to other foreign investments in sensitive infrastructure. As I said earlier, we need a secure supply of electricity every day, regardless of peace, crisis or war. I wonder how the Minister and this government intend to guarantee our security of supply when the power is so weather-dependent and ownership-dependent, Madam President. One of my questions to the Minister was about increased energy efficiency in an increasingly electrified Sweden. How does the Minister intend to work on this? In fact, Madam President, I do not get any answers here, and you might well wonder whether this is not relevant to the Minister. There are those who work daily to reduce their electricity consumption, and they will now be punished by the Government's proposal to compensate for the price of electricity via a grant. The more electricity you use, the more the grant increases. There's, like, no rhyme or reason in the whole thing. I don't know how many kilowatt hours the uncle in Dalarna had on his behalf – he who got 13 000 in retirement and 16 000 in electricity bills – but I know that he and many with him would have been helped by having reduced the tax on electricity now instead of waiting a longer time to get a subsidy retroactively. The invoice was supposed to be paid just now. The Minister also talks about the electrification strategy. I haven't read the whole of it-- I'm sorry about that-- but the summary says a lot about the government... intending to, and so on. The question is only when, because if there is something we have gotten used to during this term of office, it is precisely that the government intends to do things but that you never know when. There are also many things that actually do not happen. So the question is, when do these things happen? Getting some clear answers from this minister and government seems as easy as getting electricity from wind power when it doesn't blow.
i-JeEBTEFJnZNK9E52BYDT7H	Madam President, I would like I did not mean to put words in the mouth of Alexandra Anstrell but wanted to explain the consequences of what her half-life means. In the days, it was decided to build offshore wind power off the coast of Skåne, which can be in place within eight years and which corresponds to two nuclear reactors. Alexandra Anstrell's solution is a 16-year nuclear reactor at a three or four-fold price, if we look at the Finnish example, or at a six or seven-fold price, if we look at the French example. The half-fat that Alexandra Anstrell is talking about is actually a cover-up. One thing seems to me to agree with Alexandra Anstrell: energy efficiency for households is a good way for households to push prices and to ensure that they have low costs and that electricity is used properly. It is therefore strange that the right, once it was possible in November to influence something in the budget of this noble House, chose to remove the proposal for streamlining contained in the government's draft budget. This was part of the margin adjustments that were made. This may seem to be a remarkable priority, especially when, at the same time, you are beating your chest for energy efficiency. I think that we should approach the legislation as it is. I noted that Alexandra Anstrell is upset that we are compensating households that have had exceptionally high electricity prices during this exceptional period. At the same time, her party has had a proposal to do exactly this, perhaps with another variant that is their favorite route, namely tax reduction. This would have given the most to those who already have the most. If we relate to Swedish legislation, we can see that the tax legislation, as it stands, would not have given the possibility of retroactively reducing taxes. This would have meant that households would have been able to get the money in maybe six months or a year, depending on when the Council's referral and the tax amendment could have passed through this House, in addition, during an election year like this. How long, the Moderates feel, would households have had to wait to get this compensation for the Moderates to get through their favorite solution with a tax cut that gives the most to those who already have the most? I think the solution presented by the government is the best way for households to get the money. We see that households will start to receive the money already in March or April, unlike what it would have been like with the solution proposed by the Moderates. I am the first to say that we would certainly have been able to tailor this solution extremely detailed, much more precisely and in detail. But then the money had reached households considerably later. That is why this is the pragmatically best solution available today. Alexandra Anstrell referred to the safety aspect. I think it's important, and I'm glad she brought it up. Last autumn, the House tightened its security legislation on a proposal from the government. This was done to increase the distance between ownership and implementation of electricity generation, so that we secure our electricity generation regardless of who owns it. I am very open about the fact that I have no problem returning to this House with further tightening up of the Electricity Preparedness Act or the Security Act needed to ensure that Swedish households and electricity consumers can be sure that we will continue to have electricity regardless of who owns which type of energy in Sweden and whether there is peace, crisis or war. The electricity is extremely important. I do not think the only solution is for the Swedish state to own everything. I am not sure whether Alexandra Anstrell believes this; I do not think so. That is why the legislative path – which the government, or technically the previous government, has already taken – is the right way to go. That is the way we continue to go.
i-CAraYuKDfWUEjwKjg9X5fU	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the developed answer! In fact, two nuclear reactors, as the Minister mentioned, we could have left now if the Social Democrats and others had not voted in favour of closure in this House a few years ago. I have learned that low-frequency noise is often perceived as more disturbing than any other noise. When I was up in Jämtland this summer, Torbjörn told me that ordinary residential facades and windows often have poor sound insulation for low frequencies, and the low frequency sound can also be amplified indoors. It is therefore not uncommon that the experience of low-frequency noise is stronger indoors than outdoors, which also applies to wind energy noise. Torbjörn had been camping all summer. He lived between two wind farms, and it was impossible to be indoors. The most common inconveniences caused by environmental noise are disturbance and sleep disturbances. In Finland, scientific studies have been carried out on possible adverse effects on human health of infrasounds from wind turbines. The study shows that wind turbines have changed the sound environment of homes in an urban direction. If you move out somewhere in nature you probably do not long for an urban sound environment – rather the opposite. What we know is that wind power noise affects people's experience of the recovery effect of sleep. Wind power sounds also have a significant impact on dream sleep; this is shown by a study at the University of Gothenburg. Those who live less than a kilometer from a wind farm sleep worse and have shorter dream sleep than others. I wonder how the Minister will ensure that people who live around places where wind power is planned can participate in a democratic process and think about the impact on their sleep that may come without a municipal veto. Who thinks the Minister would be best placed to decide where wind power should be planned?
i-CePUPF3TBx7JNcu5b5tQpg	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Alexandra Anstrell, for the question. At present, the municipal veto is the opportunity for these residents to say their opinion, or one of the ways to do so. In addition to this, Sweden has plenty of legislation that protects the residents. These include appeals. I believe that anyone who has ever been active in any municipal policy context recognizes that every decision on the construction of wind turbines or the construction of buildings, electricity lines, roads, motorways or roundabouts has been surrounded by quite extensive appeals. I would therefore say that the protection of individuals remains. I would also like to point out that today there is no proposal from this government or from my party to abolish the municipal veto. There's been an investigation that suggests that you don't do this. The results of this investigation are currently being prepared. Today there is no such proposal on the table. Let's raise our eyes and look ahead. We're looking at a future with maybe double the use of electricity. Industry and transport will need more electricity. Our way of changing and managing climate change means a lot of new jobs. This is our way of becoming independent and free from the oil sheiks in the Middle East and from Putin's Russia. For that, we need energy. I'm from Norrbotten. I know Norrbotten was involved in taking a big responsibility, with the hydropower that was expanded, when we industrialized ourselves last time. I think we all need to pull in the same direction. However, this does not mean that you should not have a good living environment. I have a great deal of sympathy for those who think that the noise from the wind turbines can be disturbing or that it is not aesthetically pleasing. That is why I am pleased that today there are equivalent 350 terawatt hours of electricity production in applications only for offshore wind power and only in southern Sweden. This is two and a half times what the whole of Sweden consumes per year. There is enormous potential there without disturbing anyone's sleep.
i-HDPrkabVyvWavcx1eZD3u	Madam President, I would like Ola Johansson has asked me whether I intend to clarify who is responsible and the reasons for the decision to phase out the four national wind power coordinators. Ola Johansson has also asked me how I intend to replace the role of coordinator of authorities, actors and local interests in the design and implementation of wind power expansion. I would like to begin by making it clear that the position not to extend the appointments of wind energy coordinators in a formal sense means that their two-year appointments expired on 31 December 2021. Wind power coordinators were set up by the government as early as 2006. This was a time when wind power expansion was in its infancy. The mission was to facilitate the interaction between wind power designers, authorities and other actors at national, regional and local level. The starting point was to create the conditions for a large-scale expansion of wind power so that energy policy objectives could be achieved. Coordinators would act as drivers in ongoing processes and highlight wind power in different contexts. The need is different today, for example because wind power has become competitive on its own. Wind power projects are generally much larger and more, and government agencies are more explicitly working on strategies to create better planning conditions for wind power expansion and to try to identify and find solutions to various structural barriers. The growth of the wind power industry means that there are quite different resources in the industry today. There are several professional organisations working to promote the interests of wind power. This is also why the Government gave the Swedish Energy Agency the task of analysing whether there was a continued need for special wind energy coordinators in the regulation letter for 2021. The Swedish Energy Agency assessed that there was no continued clear need for special wind energy coordinators. The Authority points out, among other things, that the task of being neutral knowledge brokers is made more difficult by its being combined with being a form of mediation for wind energy projectors. The efforts of wind turbines have contributed to and played an important role in the expansion of Swedish wind power. Having said that, the tasks of the wind power regulators in their current form have not been extended. There are now many actors, such as government agencies, who are helping to facilitate the development of wind power. R egeringen continues to follow the issue of wind power conditions.
i-5UhA5TqHtMW2wGjkP6AaPf	Madam President, I would like This is perhaps a different starting point for this debate than for the previous debate. The fact that the appointment of wind power coordinators was not renewed at the end of 31 December still means that the important work carried out by them since 2006 will not continue, at least not in its current form. It is true that the wind power expansion at that time was in its infancy. The most progressive municipalities welcomed establishment, while many felt hesitant. The parks were small and not nearly as large and efficient as they are now. And there is still municipal resistance both here and there. We heard that earlier. With his answer, Minister Khashayar Farmanbar tries to make it sound like the coordinators have over time been given a simpler and less urgent task. That's not true. The letter of resignation to the coordinators sent by the Government via the Secretary of State on New Year's Eve says: The role of wind power coordinators has been important in facilitating cooperation and dialogue between wind power designers, authorities and other actors at central, regional and local level, and I am convinced that you have played a major role in the wind power expansion in Sweden. The Secretary of State expresses his thanks perfectly, for using grammatical terms, that is, something that has happened but that is no longer going on. Wind power expansion is very much present, and above all it is futurum. The electricity demand will double within 20 years. I therefore assume that I do not have to convince the Government why wind power is needed in our energy system. The technology development of wind power has been at rocket speed since 2006. At that time a total of 750 works produced approximately 1 terawatt hour. Today, they produce over 27 terawatt hours and, as the Government knows, the potential is far greater, provided that the technology available is allowed to be used and that most of the applications that already exist can be realised. The truth that Farmanbar does not seem to want to see is that the licensing processes have become increasingly complex while conflicts of interest around wind power are increasing exponentially. I say that there has never been such a great need for coordination in order for any expansion at all to take place. The single biggest obstacle is, as you know, the Swedish Armed Forces whose exempt land area is 30 per cent. There is nothing to be done about that, especially in these troubled times. 50% of applications are stopped before the environmental assessment of the municipal veto. During the environmental review, 60% of opposing interests are stopped. It therefore needs to be designed for four times more wind power than will actually be able to be built. Municipal and parliamentary elections are approaching. A pattern from previous election years is that a larger percentage of the installations seeking to be affected by the particular municipal veto. Now there are again elections, and not since I became politically active during the burning nuclear debate in the mid-1970s have the contradictions between us who like wind power and those who do not. The belief that the Swedish Energy Agency, which itself has investigated and concluded that wind energy coordinators have played their part, should be able to overcome contradictions locally, engage in dialogue and solve practical knots down at project level is not realistic. Madam President, I would like The mission was to facilitate the interaction between wind energy designers, authorities and other actors at national, regional and local level, answers the Minister for Energy. Does he think that this work is no longer needed, as if more government authorities, each in its drainpipes, were a guarantee of better planning conditions? Several industry organisations are working to promote the interests of wind power. It's true. But does Farmanbar have any evidence that they believe that continued coordination is now superfluous?
i-Tt1xA5a62R39jeu6ru78k1	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ola Johansson, for the post! I am pleased that we agree on the need for wind power, especially in view of what we heard in the previous debate. I also fully agree with Ola Johansson that we should talk about wind power in the present tense and futurum. Here lies Sweden's future energy production, absolutely. Let's focus on the four individuals we've had as wind power coordinator in Sweden. I am convinced that, as the Secretary of State put it so well in the letter, they have played a major role. We are now moving towards a completely new situation. We are moving towards a situation from a management phase of our electricity system – we have had the same electricity needs year after year for 30 years – to potentially doubling, at least significantly increasing, our electricity use in 30 years. This means that we are entering a large expansive phase. Then I honestly don't think that only the four individuals will make the big difference. I believe that the overall approach that the government is now taking with the electrification strategy, which involves 67 concrete assignments to authorities and organisations on how to coordinate and work further, is the way forward. I am not saying that the coordinators as such are superfluous, but I see that in the electrification strategy that we presented yesterday there are missions that address the mission and responsibilities of the wind energy coordinators. There may even be more than four people who need to work on it in order for us to achieve the strategy's objectives. But if it says between that it should be in exactly the form that was decided on in 2006, that four people throughout Sweden will work with coordination, or a new form with more people and more clear assignments to the authorities, I believe in the latter. Therefore, the government also largely agrees with the Swedish Energy Agency's conclusions and sees that not only the Swedish Energy Agency but also other authorities are already pushing ahead and doing so in their assignments. These tasks now overlap with the role of wind energy coordinators. That was not the case before. I am pleased to see that there are strong organisations that drive and strong interests in wind power. I think we need to hook our arm and work more together. I do not really see the important work that the wind energy coordinators have done hereby ceases, just because this form ceases. We will enter a new phase with the electrification strategy, and it will provide very good conditions for the future.
i-TTMSBZtj45pPKKETbigy9S	Madam President, I would like I am not getting any answers from the Government as to the form in which this will continue. We recently heard a debate in which the interpellier wanted a break in the wind power expansion. That is what we will get when the form of wind energy coordination remains undetermined. I do not believe that overlapping authorities are a credible response. Let me give you an example. One of the actors who is planning a major expansion in Kalmar previously asked a number of questions regarding the examination to the Ministry of State. This was a case in the Land and Environment Court after they had been rejected in the County Administrative Board's environmental review delegation where the municipality's slow action delays the process – no harm to Kalmar. Until the end of the year, the dialogue was ongoing with the coordinator in South Sweden, Mari-Louise Wernersson, who is one of these individuals. But after that, there was no one else but the Ministry of Infrastructure, where the Government is involved, to turn to. The answer from government officials was that the government cannot go into individual matters – nothing more. This is just one municipality, one case and one of the four wind power coordinators. Is it this limbo that Farmanbar believes that all pending applications should end up in now that we are facing an increasing need for electricity throughout the country? Properly managed, new and larger works on land and, above all, at sea will be able to contribute to the phasing out of nuclear power without compromising the security of supply during severe winters and when in any part of the country there happens to be no wind. But these are now stopped with vetoes and prolonged state processes. We could now put aside the debate on energy policy. We listened to that earlier today. However, we certainly agree that it should be simpler and be able to go faster. You can also draw parallels to something else that the Government said in its answer, namely that wind power was in its infancy in 2006. It's a very fast growing kid we're dealing with. These are works of twelve megawatts each and a rotor diameter of over 200 meters long at sea. Compared to the visors that were exhibited in 2006, one can almost speak of a reborn wind power industry. It is a large-scale expansion, as the Government called it in its previous speech. It is also of the utmost importance that these end up in A modes where they produce a lot. B modes are okay, but C and D modes reduce profitability and production by 20 percent or more. If the environmental test also takes longer, the industry will opt out of wind power, and then future problems of electricity shortage will have to be solved in other ways. The proportion of works granted permission is already decreasing, despite the efforts of the coordinators, for which the government so well thanked them. In 2020 only a few dozen land-based works were approved, while in the previous year there were more than 600. The reason is that the opposing interests have increased in recent times. I still have no answer as to what is going to happen. Who takes the role of dialogue between wind energy designers, authorities and other actors at central, regional al and local level? As mentioned earlier, this task was carried out by four people, each with 25 percent of a full - time job. It goes without saying that much of this work has been very cost-effective and has been done on a voluntary basis. I also note that it is not the professional organisations or companies, nor the municipalities, that have asked to avoid coordination. It is the government and the authority that do. Impartiality has been a guiding principle for wind energy coordinators. Building trust is about being transparent, clear and fast-footed. Madam President, I would like I think that the answer delivered by the Ministry of Infrastructure to the applicant in Kalmar that the government and its office do not go into individual cases speaks clearly. All the applicant needed was help to get the process to move. It won't get any better.
i-JhExbpg3AGymmgxF4VWXZk	Madam President, I would like Ola Johansson describes the exchange of wind power well, from the visors he mentioned that were set up in 2006 to the formidable and impressive energy production devices that we see today. This has made wind power competitive compared to 2006 and has more industry representatives working for expansion. We agree that this development should continue. Although the wind power coordinators have worked with, among other things, the municipal strength and the dissemination of knowledge, we need to take the next step. This work needs to be carried out more structured between authorities and industry than was possible with the current organisational form consisting of four part-time people, as Ola Johansson so well highlighted. The response to the challenges that we are looking at today in the electricity generation perspective will be greater than the specific wind energy coordinators can handle and directly facilitate in their specific role. This is why we are now taking the step of moving the mission through the electrification strategy to find better and larger forms. The task that was not previously assigned to the authorities and that needed to be carried out by four part - time workers is now in the hands of all the authorities. It naturally has a greater impact and gives more strength to those who want to invest in this renewable energy source throughout Sweden. Ola Johansson, Jag and the government fully agree on the need for wind power. If this particular role were the way forward, we in the government would definitely look at it. However, we have made the assessment that the mandate of the wind energy coordinators will be better able to do so in the future when each authority is given the task of carrying this out. They haven't had that before. Ola Johansson must nevertheless admit that when an entire authority is assigned to work with wind power in a way that has not been done before, it gives more effect than four part-time people. These four part-time people have made extremely good efforts, but now we are talking about the entire Swedish Government working in the same direction. Then we need the new structure that we are now entering.
i-NX9stuoQM8wbhYbuz7VN6E	Madam President, I would like I made a reflection during the previous debate today, when many spoke out in favour of new nuclear power. I believe that the task of a nuclear coordinator in the future, of convincing the municipalities concerned that they should host them, can be a major challenge. However, it was a terrible parallel. I apologize. In the previous debate, we also heard discussions about perceived sounds, disturbances and impressions from offshore wind power located several miles from land. D e doesn't sound much unless you sleep in your sailboat. There are different interests, and there are interests that can be bridged. There are many actors, and the authorities are some of them. If they are to have increased resources for this, as the Government says, there is nothing to rule out that the resource that fills the gap between the authorities, the different actors and the different interests should continue to play a role. Although the Government certifies that the task will be carried out by overlapping authorities, my confidence in such a solution is extremely limited. If the problems persist and if it is as the Government suggests, that is to say that in future the coordinators will not do the good they have done, the question is whether they have done any good in the past. Have evaluations been able to say that they have carried out an important task? If you come to the conclusion that they have not done so, then you have to be honest and say it instead of sending letters suggesting that they have done a good job but that you do not intend to continue giving them an assignment. I think that 25% of a full-time job in order to carry out this task is still a cost-effective way of maintaining coordination. I ask the Government to reconsider the government's position and reconsider the Authority's decisions and proposals.
i-HiBicgNqEhoe8X4CAGd67q	Madam President, I would like I am once again pleased that we are so agreed on wind power as one of the energy types of the future to invest in. I also believe that, at the stage we are now entering, there will be a need for more than, overall, a full-time service divided into four people. We will need people who work with this on the authorities and within industry organisations. When we change the whole of Sweden so that we drive towards perhaps the biggest expansion that we have made of the energy system in modern times, we need more than a full-time service – thus not saying that what the wind energy coordinators have done so far has not been good. In my opinion, they have done an extremely good job. Remember what it was like in 2006! When this service was introduced, the conditions were quite different, but the reality has changed. That is why we are now taking the next step in order to move forward even faster and even more forcefully. We can have different opinions about the exact method and whether it should be independent wind energy coordinators or whether it should be done on authorities. I believe in the electrification strategy that we present and on the roads that are in it. Let me be clear, however, that we share the ambition. If it turns out that this is not the way forward, we are absolutely prepared to reconsider our decision. V in parts the ambition that there should be more wind power and that it should be in place. It should also be able to be stored as fuel and other things so that we get sustainability and planning in the system.
