i-Sp17UbQ6RrPF6SYvTDfwJo	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating and discussing the political area of property law. I would like to highlight the need for digitalisation and the many positive effects that come from developing it. This means that things can go much faster and that it will be easier to administer, access information and be able to plan better. These are important benefits in the area we are debating today – housing construction, the process of community building, as well as general entrepreneurship and the exercise of authority in these matters. We therefore believe that it is important for the government to make available the geodata needed to build up digitalisation and develop mapping services and many other areas of society, and that the government review the financing model that builds up the entire system and moves towards more fee-freeness in terms of the cost of geodata and the information that Lantmäteriet shares in this area. Pending a new financing solution from the government, we believe that the maps of Lantmäteriet should be made available free of charge. In this area, it is also important that we have a standardization and uniformity of geodata in order to make it work better. Lantmäteriet's and others' reports, including the one that came in 2020, show that this would result in a budget cost of SEK 553 million. At the same time, we know from the same calculations that the socio-economic value of making geodata available would have a socio-economic effect of between SEK 10 billion and SEK 20 billion annually. It is therefore very little money that needs to be invested in order to have a huge impact on the whole of Swedish society, industry and the authorities. The Parliament decided on an announcement, i.e. a point to the Government to address the issue, already in February 2021. With the draft announcement coming from the committee today, we would like to draw further attention to the acceleration of this. When discussing digitalisation in society, you need to go into many other areas that are affected. Today came the Swedish National Audit Office's report on Lantmäteriet's work on building construction. It shows that digitalisation could have a major impact on the currently very long processing times at Lantmäteriet when it comes to building buildings. What affects today, according to the report, is outdated legislation that does not allow for the development of different digitisation tools so that queues can be shortened and decisions made more quickly. There may be a need for better automation of such decisions based on the information received and the use of digital coordinates. There were two examples from the report submitted today. The monopoly position of Lantmäteriet means that there is a lack of cost efficiency within Lantmäteriet. So there are a number of different things that can speed up real estate formation in Sweden. As I mentioned at the beginning, digitalisation in society is also important. Today, some could actually give us a greater opportunity to make it easier and more accessible to plan and build, reduce administration and speed up processes. With this, Madam President, I would like to vote in favour of reservation 2.
i-RxtnDdgHHKfbfxZ8HYrmqz	Madam President, I would like In order to build housing, both land and market are needed. Land to build arises from building, and that is what we are going to debate today. The problems of the market are far greater, and it is no secret that we in the Center Party want to see major changes that mean a greater supply in a functioning housing market. Facilitations in regulations and laws also affect property law. Delays at Lantmäteriet and long processing times are still a major problem that delays construction. The Swedish National Audit Office has also found this in its report, which they presented about three hours ago. And that is a problem that persists. Above all, this affects individuals – individual property owners and people who want to build a house, break down or in other ways change their building. We in the Center Party, which have not put any extra money into our budget option to shorten the processing times, think it would be desirable if the Lantmäteriet with the grant that has been made could pick up the queues for building construction more quickly. But this has not yet happened. Madam President, I would like As previous speakers have mentioned, digitalisation is a measure that could speed up this. Instead of adding more money, we want to see Lantmäteriet challenged by other actors who can help them do the job. The Center Party also wants to see greater decentralisation with more municipal surveying authorities than the 39 we have today. But instead of screwing up Lantmäteriet, I want to continue to highlight the work on digitalisation that is being carried out and the digitalisation that is going on within Boverket. The availability of geodata has been driven in the past, and at last year's Parliamentary Session an announcement was made to the Government that it will make more data available and in addition to that find financing solutions that make geodata available and work with standardisation solutions. Now we come back with a reservation where the Center Party together with the Christian Democrats and another party comes back to funding and the need for standardisation. It is customary, Madam President, for us, under property law, to address an announcement to the government that road and other joint ventures that have several properties attached to them should be able to change their percentages themselves by a decision at a meeting. It is gratifying that such a proposal is now finally before the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs for our position. It has been a long wait, but now it is finally time to simplify for many road communities in the countryside, in our smaller urban areas and in the residential district there. At the initiative of the Christian Democrats, we also raise the question of compensation between property owners in a joint facility when a shareholder enters or withdraws in connection with changes in the unit rates. Although the other shareholders often agree that the incoming shareholder shall not be charged any fee for inclusion, it shall be the subject of an execution at the Land Survey where the value of the plant shall be determined. This is happening even though it is not something that the Union of Commons has even asked for. This, and the inconsistent application of various paragraphs of the Construction Act, we therefore want to review. It is also a measure that we believe would reduce the length of proceedings. That is why, Madam President, I am in favour of reservation 1. Finally, in the light of the current energy policy debate, new power transmission lines are being called for between terrestrial transmissions so that the electricity generation that supplies the most can be consumed where conditions are currently worse. I think everyone here agrees that new power lines with better transmission capacity are an essential part of the solution. But one should be aware that it is a difficult and time-consuming process to pull these lines over private land. Many center party movements during this Parliamentary Session address the need to investigate how landowners can be replaced for the infringement. This applies not only initially when the land is put into use to build the pipeline, but also to how future production in forests, for example, is affected and can be replaced by those who pull out the pipeline and use it. Of course, Madam President, we support all these proposals which are not included in the report because of the simplified procedure. For the Center Party, ownership is fundamental. Land should not be arbitrarily excluded for purposes other than those envisaged by the landowner. Where there are legitimate reasons, such as drawing important infrastructure that strengthens the whole country, the compensation to the landowner must be generous and reasonable in terms of what the land would have produced if it were not put into use for this purpose. We protect property rights and stand up for people's ability to receive compensation for the land they have provided for common socially important facilities, such as power lines.
i-EvidkCKsy9R9oLVW8uHPWn	Madam President, I would like Sometimes we are discouraged by our inability to have common images, and not only a common picture of the problem, but also a common picture of the solutions. In the area we are debating today, property law, I still think we have a picture of the problems. We have comments from quite a few parties. We see a need for reform. Yet property law is an area in which Parliament rejects all motions, which for me is strange because I still see some good proposals. One also sees a common problem. The dream of building your own house as you imagine it can end before it has even begun. If it isn't the long time for processing, it is the administration around planning and building permits, or there are many who have views on where it is being built and what your dream house looks like. Today, you need not only capital to realize your dream of a house, but also determination and nerves of steel. A plan work in the municipality from idea to reality takes far too long and, in my opinion, requires far too many investigations and time-consuming processes, while Lantmäteriet takes a long time if you want to cut off. Add to this the appeal period and the possibility for those who so wish to delay construction. All of this means that it can take a very long time before the new property is in place. Of course, different parts of society work together or do not work together. Time is therefore long, and not all parts can influence us. But some are actually the responsibility of the parliament. Some are the responsibility of county boards, some are the responsibility of the judiciary, some are the responsibility of municipalities and some are the responsibility of the individual. Each part and each process must consider how to help reduce the distance and time from idea to finished house. But something we can do and do something about is Lantmäteriet and its activities. We can ensure that it is used effectively and for the right purpose. For a large number of operations and for the whole process of urban development, the efforts of Lantmäteriet are of crucial importance, I would say. Housing construction requires the creation of new properties, and the construction of railways requires land leases with the support of the Property Forming Act, the Rights of way Act and the Construction Act. Rural businesses do business where property regulation and cutting-off are crucial for the establishment of new businesses and the development of rural businesses. In our view, it would be beneficial for all parties to continue to streamline the planning and construction process through a digital planning process and to introduce open geodata for the public sector in Sweden in the first step. I would argue that digitalisation in many parts is in its infancy in Sweden. We have built the highways for digitalisation, we have the capacity in terms of products but we have not taken the opportunity to use digitalisation to the full. Here Lantmäteriet has tried to be at the forefront, and they should have a credit for that. They have developed a roadmap to enable open geodata. The full use of digitalisation can streamline and facilitate many administrative parts of Administration Sweden while at the same time creating opportunities for simpler and faster decision-making powers. This creates a need for harmonisation of systems and for being able to change information uninhibited in order to use the same information in different ways many times. We must all dare to let go of the shard and let others in to win something at the other end. That's where I think digitalisation can do something. Open geodata should be free for the user, and it would be the beginning of a recipe for success that other countries have already begun. I would like to conclude by saying that it is gratifying to see that the government has now put forward a proposal, just as Ola Johansson from the Center Party said, to make it easier to change the rates of participation in the joint societies. That is something that we Christian Democrats have pushed forward, and I think it is a step along the way. We hope that it will win approval also in the Riksdag. With this, I would like to vote in favour of reservation 2.
i-97HWnoy6LnW1Kezrkadogx	Madam President, I would like Today, the Committee on Civil Liberties is debating a general exercise report on real estate law. But my thoughts are elsewhere today. I am thinking of the terrible situation in Ukraine and the disaster it brings to the Ukrainian people. Yesterday, the Parliament decided on financial and military support for Ukraine's struggle for freedom and democracy. My thoughts go to Ukraine and the Ukrainian people's struggle for freedom. Today, however, the democratic work of the Swedish Parliament must continue. Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved and for all motions to be rejected. We Social Democrats are clear that we have to turn over every stone to break segregation and crack the gangs – because Sweden can better. We need to take back democratic control of welfare – because Sweden can better. We will lead the climate transition and create the jobs of the future – because Sweden can better. In the process of breaking segregation, property law is an extremely important and powerful tool, both for us to maintain housing construction and for us to be able to have economically, socially and ecologically sustainable social development. In this area, we mean Social Democrats, it has unfortunately been removed from local authorities to work on strategic land issues, to prevent segregation and to combat criminal organisations. I am talking about the pre-purchase law, which the moderate-led government abolished on 1 May 2010. There was justified criticism of the then pre-purchase law, but instead of carrying out modernisation, the moderate-led government chose to completely abolish the law. Madam President, I would like We Social Democrats want a new and modern pre-purchase law to be introduced in Sweden. It is a tool that is really needed if municipalities are to be able to have advice and control over the development of society, break segregation and break the criminal gangs. An investigation into the possibility of introducing a modernised law on municipal pre-purchase rights is currently being prepared in the Government Office. I think that is very good. Madam President, I would like One of the proposals from the general exercise time discussed in the report concerns the compensation rules in the Construction Act, as we have heard previous speakers mention. In this area, as has also been mentioned, the government has already submitted a legislative proposal to simplify joint ventures to change the rates of participation with a view to making it more flexible, simpler and cheaper for joint societies to change the shares of the partners. The Civil Affairs Committee plans to begin the preparation of the bill by the end of March. Madam President, I would like The second issue in the report that I was going to raise concerns geodata. During the spring of 2021, the Riksdag decided to announce that the Government should prioritise enabling additional geodata, including from Lantmäteriet, to be made available to the greatest possible extent to both authorities and the general public. According to the announcement, the government should also return as soon as possible with proposals for appropriate financing solutions and accelerate work on geodata standardisation. Madam President, I would like The announcement may well be seen as a sign from the Riksdag that the issue is important, because in this area the government has long been engaged in an ongoing and well-structured work. As early as February 2016, the Government commissioned Lantmäteriet to investigate the conditions for a coordinated digital construction process. In April 2018, the Government commissioned Lantmäteriet to report solutions, costs and an implementation plan for how the infrastructure for geodata should be developed in order to enable national accessibility of all geodata in the civil engineering process. In January 2020, the Government also commissioned Lantmäteriet to establish a digital infrastructure for the availability of standardised datasets in the community building process. Lantmäteriet submitted its final report to the Government on 31 January 2022, and the report is currently being prepared in the Government Office. Similarly, similar work is under way at Boverket and the Swedish Tax Agency to create secure and efficient access to basic data and a secure and efficient electronic exchange of information within the public sector. These interim and final reports are also currently being prepared in the Government Office. As you can hear, Madam President, there is no justification for further announcements as suggested in the reservation by the Swedish Democrats, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats on access to geodata. Moreover, I believe that profits in welfare should be banned.
i-5WbwxcCDWWjswByidbUPoT	Madam President, I would like It seems that we at least have the same view when it comes to digitalisation in Sweden, i.e. that it can be good for society, both civil society and the administrative part, that you can have open data and use it in different ways. You shouldn't have to do the same thing or the same procedure several times. What separates the Social Democrats and the Christian Democrats is the view of how this is to be made available. We believe that this should be open and accessible to all, and that it should be paid in a way that makes sure that every individual does not have to pay when using it, whether it is an authority, a company or something else. The Social Democrats still owe the answer to how to finance this. In all the possible investigations and presentations that are being attempted today, this is still not accessible and open to everyone, but only to those who pay, sometimes not to them either. My direct question is: are the Social Democrats prepared to do this openly and freely for everyone and to fund it in some other way? Of course it should be financed in one way or another.
i-TjPv9nfvW67JFUJUvkTHeL	Madam President, I would like I share Larry Söder's view that we are probably united in this House looking very positively at the possibilities of digitalisation. It is precisely the work of making public data available that is also being done within the framework of EU cooperation. It has identified the type of data that should be prioritised to make available first, but also how to charge in cases where it is considered that the user should also pay for the data. This work therefore needs to be harmonised with the other EU countries so that we can achieve consistency in this. Then there is nothing to prevent a single country from going ahead and releasing data freely for use and financing it with tax revenue. There, as Larry Söder points out, we haven't put our foot down yet. Personally, I think that, just as we heard the Member from the Swedish Democrats put forward, there are so huge socio-economic gains in making data available that it is a direction in which we should go. Then you have to come back to what the funding should be like.
i-YD2WyiZxFdwyrAA6fgdTcf	Madam President, I would like All parties have somehow emphasised that Lantmäteriet actually works quite well with this part. What they need is the support of the political system to make this accessible to all. I sometimes think when it comes to digitization that you should let a thousand flowers bloom. When you let a thousand flowers bloom, it usually becomes ten thousand flowers. This is in some way how you have to think about digitalisation. We benefit from doing it openly. More people can make use of it, more can be innovative with digitalisation and more can find new ways to use the information that arises. In this way, it will be a gain for the whole of society. The cost that we would take from the state in relation to this is quite negligible, just as the Member from the Swedish Democrats said in the speaker's chair. I believe that the dividing line in this House does not go hand in hand with whether we are going to use this or not or how we are going to use it, but is about how we pay. There are two different sides to this, and right now there is only one side, that is, we think it should be open and free. The other side doesn't talk about what they want. I would like the government to be clear on how to pay for this and whether it should be open and free for everyone, because that is probably quite important. Other countries have gone ahead, yes. Denmark is very far ahead of us, and we see how it has done good and done good for Danish society to have open geodata. But I think that, regardless of what it looks like in Denmark, we could make profits here too. I wish the Social Democrats could make it their electoral slogan that it should be open and free.
i-TB3q8WgDwvhN8w56SpuQ9f	Madam President, I would like Whether or not it becomes a whale slogan is, as you say, above my pay grade. Nevertheless, I share the view expressed by Larry Söder that it would be welcome to have a clear message from the government in the near future on how to look at funding.
i-PUH77389sYQ8UAN572cke3	Madam President, I would like In these days it is difficult to focus and think about anything other than the Russian invasion in Ukraine. There is war in Europe, and it is dark in the democratic part of the world. Russia has crossed all borders when it invades a sovereign and democratic country – a country that now needs the support of the whole free world. It was therefore important that this House yesterday, since afternoon, decided on Swedish aid to Ukraine and the Ukrainian people with defensive weapons, protective equipment, food and financial contributions to the Ukrainian Central Bank in support of the country's armed forces. Madam President, I would like It is also important, despite the dark times in which we find ourselves, that democratic dialogue and decision-making continue at home, that we show that the democratic institutions are strong and that we do not allow ourselves to be disturbed. With the basic principle in my back, it is therefore nice to have the opportunity to participate in this, for me, first debate with my new colleagues in the Committee on Civil Liberties. The 9 report on property law contains a number of important issues. Madam President, I would like We Moderates have no reservations in this report to support, because the proposals we have tabled have been prepared to simplify, as it is called, when they have been the subject of parliamentary treatment in previous years, previous national meetings. Nevertheless, let me mention some of the proposals we have in the area of property law. Changes in the structure of buildings through property regulation, demolition, splitting or aggregation are common prerequisites for the implementation of construction projects. At the same time, the processing times at Lantmäteriet are long. In April last year, the average processing time for real estate regulation was 10 months, and the corresponding figure for split was 18 months. A report from the Swedish Parliament's investigation service shows that the processing times for private housing construction and private land and real estate regulation, for example, have remained relatively unchanged since 2016. This means that in five years the government has not succeeded in reducing the length of proceedings significantly. Today, the Swedish National Audit Office has presented a report that states that Lantmäteriet's property development activities are ineffective with long processing times and high unpredictable fees. These are stinging criticisms that must be taken seriously. Madam President, I would like The long processing times mean that projects are in danger of being greatly delayed and also more expensive at a time when we have a widespread housing shortage. More municipalities should therefore be allowed to set up municipal surveying authorities. Lantmäteriet is a state authority, but it is now possible for municipalities to establish municipal surveying authorities with the approval of the government. There are currently 39 municipal surveying authorities. However, only one additional municipal surveying authority has been established since the S ‐ government took office in 2014, and it was in Haninge municipality. Since the turn of the government in 2014, seven municipalities have been rejected: Höganäs, Ängelholm, Falun, Vetlanda, Malung-Sälen, Ljusdal and Järfälla. All municipalities that have been rejected have justified their application by the fact that Lantmäteriet does not meet the municipality's requirements for rapid processing and that the authority has no geographical presence. The government's decision to reject, for its part, is based on the requests for a single referral: Lantmäteriet. We Moderates believe, however, that the applications and justifications of municipalities testify to a great need for municipal surveying authorities and therefore believe that more municipalities should be allowed to establish them. Madam President, I would like In addition, a lack of competence is now reported as a major problem which also affects processing times. Many surveyors leave the profession early for jobs in the private sector where wage developments are more dynamic. Already in the short term, more municipal surveying authorities could contribute to increased capacity both by allowing municipalities to choose to invest more money in surveying and by increasing competition for the labour force, which could lead to higher wages, better conditions and that more people actually remain in the profession. This would further increase capacity. Madam President, I would like Today, a municipal surveying authority can only handle matters within its own municipality. By allowing municipal surveying authorities to handle matters in other municipalities, a municipal surveying authority which at a given time has few cases could relieve another municipality. This would allow better use of resources and thus reduce processing times. Municipal surveying authorities are an already established system that has proved to be working well and which we believe should be developed. However, we Moderates believe that it should also be investigated how Lantmäteriet can be opened up to competition by private operators in order to further increase efficiency in the long term. Madam President, I would like Changing the regulatory framework takes time. We Moderates also want to act here and now. By increasing Lantmäteriet's resources, processing times can already be reduced in a short time. It is therefore gratifying that, in accordance with the M-KD-SD budget for the current year, the Riksdag paid SEK 20 million to Lantmäteriet with the aim of reducing the processing times. Madam President, I would like We Moderates also want to investigate the system of Santa Claus. In practice, land lease means that the land on which a building is located is owned by the municipality but rented by the owner of the building and that rent is paid annually in the form of land leases. The system is over 100 years old and has historically been used and is still used to build housing at a lower cost by not having to acquire the land. These can be both multi-family houses and small houses. The leasehold contracts are different, but in general it can be said that the lease is adjusted every ten years and is based on the value of the land. However, the municipalities are free to set the fees as they wish, and are often given different types of discounts. The idea of land lease is good, but in practice there are major problems. The extensive evolution of land prices has dramatically increased the yield in general. There are individual examples where, in 30 years, renting of right-of-occupancy associations has increased by nearly 500 per cent. Many municipalities offer land owners to buy the land, often with a discount, but the price tag is still almost insurmountable. It is not a good option either to keep the land down or to sell the land at too low a price, since the land is the common property of the inhabitants of the municipality and it is reasonable for them to obtain market returns rather than to give subsidies without accuracy to individual residents. The municipalities are now trying to remedy the problems by listing the payoffs over a longer period and, as has been said, by allowing the land owners to buy the land at a more favourable price, but that is not enough. We Moderates believe that an investigation should be set up to look at how the problems associated with the system can be addressed as far as possible. Madam President, I would like The issues raised in the report for this debate may seem petty in comparison with what is going on just 120 kilometres away, but democracy and its processes are themselves the vaccine against violence and oppression. That is why we shall continue to debate and take decisions in this House, among others.
i-VUFZETbYs1Nq9cDwNpD3Y5	Madam President, I would like I would really just like to welcome Mr Viktor to the work of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs in this House. I look forward to further debates here for the rest of the semester.
i-7APFc7jU3Dzbtj1puMG6S7	Madam President, I would like Thank you for this welcome.
i-viqBFrxs13oq1CSqbx9nH	Madam President, I would like There is war in Europe. Women and children flee their homes primarily within Ukraine, but also to neighbouring countries in particular. Some have already arrived in our country, and we must now do everything we can to give them a safe place to be. However, we are here today to debate the report by the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs. As my committee colleague has just mentioned, democracy is continuing. We are a democratic country, and of course our processes in Parliament should continue. The greatest challenge of our time is climate change. The construction industry currently accounts for one fifth of Sweden's total emissions, and then only domestic emissions are included. Today we have the knowledge to build both passive houses and plus houses. At the same time, the energy consumption to heat up our existing buildings is great. Where, by what and how we build our houses will have a major impact on the environment for many generations to come. What we are building today will also work well in 100 years' time. Then we need to plan our societies from that perspective. We need a sustainable housing policy in which environmental and climate impacts are reduced. Madam President, I would like As both a building engineer and a Member of Parliament in this House, it is particularly important for me that what we are building should also live up to what has been promised in the documents. Today it is estimated what energy consumption a building will have. But there is no measurement of the energy consumption that the building actually has once it is built. We would like to see a change there. There are many reasons for this, such as the part of consumer law. The individual who buys something should also get what you bought. But we can also derive it from the recent high electricity bills, which no one could have missed. And with the developments we are now seeing in Europe, many of us fear that this price trend will be quite stable. Climate change and the war in Ukraine have the same cause: fossil fuels and our dependence on them. This was said by Ukraine's envoy to the UN Panel on Climate Change yesterday when they released another report on the climate emergency. It feels strange to have to focus right now on something other than the massive destruction and death that Putin has created with the invasion of Ukraine. However, the climate emergency and Putin's invasion have one thing in common: fossil fuels. The Russian economy stands and falls with Europe's dependence on fossil fuels. No, this is not an energy debate. It is going on in other committees. However, in 2019 total energy consumption for heating and hot water in homes and premises amounted to 77 terawatt hours. I would therefore really like us to fight together for a change, away from dependence on Russian resources to instead heat our houses and charge our electric cars with electricity and energy produced in Sweden from Swedish resources. Perhaps my most important message in this debate is that the easiest way to reduce dependence on Russian resources but also the energy use in our housing stock is energy efficiency. Perhaps it is now that we will finally see that energy efficiency is taking place. We need to ensure that the climate improves all the houses that already exist. In order to do so, we actually need to make demands on how much energy they are allowed to draw. And if we make demands on energy consumption also in the existing buildings, we also need to provide support to cope with this change. In order to reduce energy demand, renovations need to be carried out. Many older parts of our housing stock are in great need of renovation. It is therefore highly regrettable that the accurate support for energy efficiency in apartment buildings was slaughtered in the blue-brown budget. It is most regrettable and directly irresponsible from the right to twitch the shoulders to the problem and hope that someone else will solve it somewhere else. The Green Party wants the support for energy efficiency in existing residential buildings to be reintroduced, but we also want to secure support for local energy and climate advisors, which I fear may be lost. I would also like to say that the renovations that are being made and that need to be done should be done with care, in particular in order to avoid over-renovation and not to burden the tenants' finances to such an extent that they do not have the opportunity to remain. Another part of the report that I would also like to highlight in the debate concerns the climate impact of the construction sector on materials. This is particularly true in the construction phase and in particular in the choice of materials that need to be more climate- and environmental-smart. We want to see increased wood construction and more resource efficient use of building materials. I and the Green Party also want the government to be tasked with investigating the effects of economic instruments and which such instruments could lead to a higher degree of reuse of building materials. Madam President, I would like Of course, I support all the reservations expressed by the Green Party in this report, but for time, I only ask for reservation 3.
i-KCrPaZW8zVtwPuFi9BvtRf	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that we support all our reservations in the report, but for the time to come, I only call for reservation 6. Otherwise, we support the committee's proposal in the report. Planning and construction, which we are debating today, are important issues for us Social Democrats. Important key words in this work are clarity, participation, long-termism and legal certainty – all to create predictability. The rules of the planning and building permits process must be clear so that conflicting interests can be met and discussed in order to achieve the best results. Another important prerequisite for the effectiveness of planning and building permits work is that there is a long-term perspective on the conditions. Continuous changes create uncertainty for all parties who are trying to plan and get started with different projects. A regulatory framework is needed that lasts over time. As I have said in previous debates on planning and construction, and which are definitely worth repeating, we are not just building houses; we are building communities. If you have that entrance and understanding of the planning and construction, you also understand that a wide range of processes are required for the society we build to also function as a whole. Madam President, I would like In my speech today, I will spend some time on two of the announcements proposed by the committee. One applies to exemptions from energy management requirements for log houses, and the other applies to exemptions from building permits and notification requirements. As far as the first notice on log houses is concerned, the committee has received a drawing from both Boverket and the Swedish Timber House Association as well as an investigation from the consulting company WSP on challenges for log houses to meet Boverket's construction rules for U-average. All this we have done to clarify the situation for the possibility of building new log houses with the high energy efficiency requirements. These are rules that not only are laid down for log houses, but are laid down for all newly built houses. The committee's majority with M oderatians at the head proposes that the government should evaluate the possibilities of building timber houses with today's requirements in Boverket's building regulations. WSP's investigation is ordered by Boverket just to look at these questions. The study concludes that, at the present time, it cannot be concluded that log houses do not meet the current requirements for Um i BBR At the same time, Boverket is tasked with monitoring and evaluating current building regulations at regular intervals in control stations, the first of which will take place in 2022. With this in mind, we believe that there is no reason to give the government an announcement on this issue. To ask for further evaluations on this issue is to kick in open doors. With regard to the second announcement on exemptions from building permits and so on, I wonder how the majority view democracy and participation. Over the years, building permits have not been very clear or legally secure. Several strange things occurred when the Alliance introduced the so-called attache rules in 2014. For example, roof cups are free of building permits but not skylights, which would have been logical. The right of neighbours to appeal was also removed from the construction of a house of certifiers, which later proved to be contrary to the ECHR. I do not think I should go too far when I say that we have agreed in committee that a review of the whole building permit process has been needed. The Government appointed the Bygglovsmyvning, which submitted its report in 2021. It has now been sent for referrals and processed at the Government Office. Let me return to my previous question. What is the view of the majority in the committee with the Moderates at the forefront of democracy and participation? In today's announcement, the Moderates want to precede the investigation, the consultation bodies and the Law Council by establishing certain parts of the framework for building permits before all of us here in the Riksdag have even seen what consultation bodies think or what the Law Council thinks about the rule of law. The Moderates' announcement contains proposals that allow Swedish law to continue to conflict with the European Convention. Instead of taking a concerted approach, the Moderates want to continue to smudge in the building permit rules, which will not increase clarity, legal certainty or long-termism, and it will certainly not create predictability in the system. Madam President, I would like Furthermore, the democratic process will not be respected, since it does not even endeavour to take on board the views of the consultative bodies. In the democratic work, it is important to take on board the input of authorities, stakeholder organisations and other consultation bodies in order to be able to weigh the advantages and disadvantages of each other. Unfortunately, the announcement bears witness to the fact that the Moderates have put on their ideological blindfolds and do not even have the strength to see the alarm signals of their own party comrades as regards the rules of attaching cases. Feel free to read the exercise Counter-abuse of the code of conduct, exercise 2021/ 22:2229! Let me give you an example of what the exercise is based on. In Gladö mill in Huddinge municipality, a real estate company with the help of the attefall rules has divided 9 plots into 18 plots. There's nothing strange about that. A detailed plan has been drawn up for these, but in the end it has become 54 separate dwellings, as the rules allow for additional housing to be furnished in existing one-dwelling buildings and for a complementary dwelling building to be built on the plot. Thus, out of 18 planned dwellings, there have been 54. This is an example of the development in Huddinge Municipality. I can list countless. In such examples, the municipality has great difficulty in planning for such exploitation but has no way of stopping it. Housing is part of the welfare policy and, as the example shows, it is time to take back democratic control in this area too. How else will municipalities be able to plan and dimension for water, sewers and roads and calculate the need for preschool and school etc.? What would be needed is for us to turn down the ideological tone somewhat and take a holistic approach to building permit rules. It is necessary for us to be able to develop clear, long-term and legally secure building permit rules. The construction permit investigation, which is on the government's table, could be such an opportunity to redo and do the right thing. It could be an opportunity to listen to all those who have wise input into the field. Madam President, I would like I would like to say once again that I agree with all our reservations in the report, but for time-winning, I only call for reservation 6. Otherwise, I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-X46sUaBpiT7BKV47C4Ld1i	Madam President, I would like Sweden needs reforms for increased construction. The report now under discussion, on planning and construction, fortunately contains a number of proposals for announcements which Parliament can decide to address to the government tomorrow afternoon. Madam President, I would like Sweden must have high ambitions for energy efficiency and technological development. However, it is not appropriate to impose mandatory rules with limited marginal benefits, which also penalise sustainable housing solutions, in terms of their entire life cycle. Building a life cycle perspective, rather than one-sidedly weighted momentary energy consumption, is urgent. We Moderates are also opposed to rules that in practice make traditional construction methods impossible in new production. Madam President, I would like Most recently, the issue is of houses built in full logs, meaning a construction only in wood without additional insulation. These types of buildings, which are part of our Swedish cultural heritage and whose construction is so robust that a house can stand for several hundred years, are often impossible to build as a new building. Current rules make it difficult or impossible for a building tradition that extends back more than 1,000 years, without any demonstrable benefit. We Moderates therefore propose that full timber houses be exempted from the current requirements, and I am pleased that a majority in the committee has joined this line and that the Committee on Civil Liberties is therefore proposing an announcement to the government in accordance with our proposal. I would therefore like to support the committee's proposal in paragraph 3 on this very point. Madam President, I would like The so-called "attack reform" carried out by the former bourgeois government has been estimated as lowering the bureaucratic thresholds for building a complement building. Since then, a majority of us Moderates have further developed the reform, and now both complementary and complementary residential buildings can be built up to a size of 30 square metres. According to the case-law established in the area following the introduction of the reform, it has been clear that there has been a legal deficiency in the initial notification system currently in use. In the building permit investigation A new framework for building permits is proposed to abolish the requirement to apply for a start-up notification for additional building up to a maximum of 30 square metres, but instead to subject complementary residential buildings of the same size to a legal obligation. In our opinion, this represents an unfortunate division of the so-called 'attemptation' measures, while creating an unnecessarily bureaucratic threshold for those who wish to build a complementary dwelling house. We therefore believe that it would be more appropriate, at least during a trial period, to abolish the requirement for a start-up notification for complementary residential buildings, or to introduce the proposed duty of praise. It is very welcome that, in this case too, a majority in the Committee on Civil Liberties has supported our proposal for such a declaration. Madam President, I would like For a long time, the supply of services in rural areas has declined, partly as a result of decreasing customer base. However, the Coronandemine has caused something of a trend shift. Working at a distance has become increasingly common and acceptable, enabling more people to live in rural areas. This is something that those of us who represent rural areas, such as my own county of Gävleborg, very much welcome. Madam President, I would like Interest in holiday homes has increased. In particular, it is apparent from recent price developments that this has happened. The demand for services in rural areas is therefore greater today, while new technologies have made it possible to reduce costs. Digitisation has paved the way for new business models, such as unmanned stores. Security is created and thefts are counteracted, for example, by the visitors identifying themselves with a bank ID. Unmanned stores are a development that is particularly important for rural and sparsely populated areas, where the profitability of traditional shops has been difficult in recent decades. We Moderates want to protect this development where a high level of service is again possible also in rural and sparsely populated areas. One of the main obstacles for entrepreneurs who today want to open unmanned shops in rural and sparsely populated areas is that it takes a long time and that it is complicated to obtain building permits. We therefore propose that unattended rural shops should be exempted from both building permits and notification obligations given certain conditions. Madam President, I would like The construction permit investigation has suggested, among other things, that additional buildings without va on their own plot outside the planned area should be up to 50 square meters large with 4.5 meters in nock. However, these buildings must be located in connection with another building and must not be used for economic purposes. We therefore propose the introduction of another form of construction, namely unmanned rural shops. This form of building should be allowed to measure up to 50 square metres and not contain va. On the other hand, they should be allowed to be used for economic purposes and be placed outside the site, for example near a road where it is easier for customers to reach the store. For this proposal too, there is a majority in the Committee on Civil Liberties, which is very welcome. Madam President, I would like There is also a majority in favour of a declaration of approval of our moderate proposal to facilitate the relocation of old houses. Today, when a building is moved to a new location, it is generally counted as a new building. This means that the building is expected to meet all the current requirements for accessibility, for example. There is an opportunity for the Buildings Board to make some departures, but we believe that these opportunities should be strengthened. In this way, more buildings can be reused but also greater cultural values can be preserved. Madam President, I would like The Center Party also has good proposals aimed at simplifying construction and reducing the regulatory burden, such as exemptions from building permits and notification of skylights and skylights, which we have supported with a majority in the committee. I would therefore like to support the committee's proposals under paragraphs 6 and 7 on exemptions from building permit requirements and notification and exemptions from the new building requirements for the relocation of old buildings. Madam President, I would like However, there are a number of proposals for which we Moderates have not been supported in committee. For example, a proposal on information requirements for building permits in relation to agriculture would require the support of the Riksdag. Many farmers have in recent years dared to take the step of selling their own farm's products and in many cases also processing their raw materials into finished food. This is a development that we Moderates welcome and want to contribute to. Some activities, such as slaughterhouses, require building permits. However, it is often unclear what requirements are placed on the activities in order to obtain approval at a later stage during an environmental inspection. Municipalities should therefore also notify these requirements at the building permit stage if the applicant requests them. The processing of locally produced raw materials, often from their own farm, creates products with high quality and an important cultural value. There is a great and growing interest in food trades and locally produced food, and we Moderates want to contribute to this development. That is why, on behalf of the Moderates, I would like to support reservation 8 which deals with this very issue. Madam President, I would like Much work remains to be done to reform legislation in order to increase construction and reduce the regulatory burden. However, the Riksdag can now decide on some proposals for announcements that go in this direction. It is clear, however, that this autumn it is time for a new moderate-led government to get Sweden in order, including in terms of planning and construction.
i-WeJWhPC2KvAx1FDVqc2mHo	Madam President, I would like I received a theatrical announcement that I would welcome Viktor Wärnick to the Civil Affairs Committee. Of course I do. But this has already been done by Joakim Järrebring of the Social Democrats. I put a question to the Moderates in my speech as to why they do not intend to look at the views of the referral bodies and, if necessary, the Council's views on the future building permit investigation. We may feel that things are important. But these are fairly wide-ranging issues. Then it is good to take input from wise people in different authorities and interest organisations and from others, such as moderate members here in the Riksdag, who have some views on how the rules on attaching cases work. What is so dangerous about actually taking these points into account?
i-WEDJiUuP2igPmJAArEKAQx	Madam President, I would like I note that in his speech here earlier, Leif Nysmed returned to the fact that it would be democratically problematic for us to take decisions in this House. But let me make it clear on behalf of the Minutes that I think it is fully democratic for the Swedish Parliament to decide both on legislation and, in this case, on proposals for announcements to the Government to simplify and make it easier to deal with these issues. So there is nothing democratically dangerous in this. I note that this is a recurring rhetoric from the Social Democrats to claim that the proposals for which there is a majority from some other than the Social Democrats would be democratically dangerous. Let me just say that I think it is dangerous for the democratic dialogue if we use this rhetoric against each other. With regard to the building permit investigation, which is now being prepared within the Government Office, I see it as only reasonable that we in this House have views on what has come to light. There is now a majority in the committee that wants to decide, among other things, on exemptions from building permit requirements and notification and exemptions from new building requirements when moving old buildings, for example. It is good for the government to know, through announcements, not sharp legislation, what is Parliament's will and purpose for the further process.
i-N8w2dBPjmx3Zb6QtWaktpW	Madam President, I would like I thank Viktor Wärnick for his answer and his views on the question. It is not that it is undemocratic because we are democratically elected. The voters have decided that we will represent our parties. However, there is a point in the decision-making process in examining proposals and in taking the views of consultation bodies into account. The Government is preparing a proposal based on these views, which can weigh the advantages and disadvantages of the proposal without having a definite view in advance, and then let the Legislative Council look at whether the views are in favour of legislation. The Riksdag then makes a decision on the bill. I think that this is a rather sound way to go, in other words that we actually take on board the expertise that exists in society and that adds something to it. Although I myself come from the construction industry and have 25 years of experience from different parts of it, I don't want to say that I know everything, but I think it's good to use your ears to listen and take on good points of view. In this House, too, we have developed the rules on cases to some extent because we have had talks. We have had different angles of entry, looked at the issue and actually got along. I think it's a good time. But then we have also listened to the question in a broader context than to be ideologically locked from the very beginning. There is a lot of interest in the building permit investigation. I don't share everything that's in it. But I am very curious to hear what consultation bodies say and how they discuss the various issues. I am also very interested in seeing how we can get the rule of law in order. Then I think it is good if we have a holistic approach to building permit rules, so that people, companies and authorities know in the long term what the conditions are.
i-YCr2VybZ6ojkZeqBQx5484	Madam President, I would like I note once again that this is addressed with democratic legitimacy. I would like to emphasise once again that I think it is fully democratic for this House to decide on proposals for announcements to a small minority government that has to deal with the building permit investigation. That this small S-government knows what a majority in the Swedish parliament thinks can not be harmful? Then you also know what there is support for and what there is no support for when you come back with proposals with sharp legislation in this area. We do not cut the processing issue in any way, and we do not interfere with the legislative work in any way. These are announcements that the House will address tomorrow, which are about exemptions from the energy management requirements for log houses, exemptions from building permit requirements and notification and exemptions from new building requirements when moving old buildings. It is therefore a question of liberalisation and simplification that we are calling for. I know that it is not the strongest branch of the Social Democrats to go in that direction, but that is something that the majority in this House is behind and that will be severely tested in the vote tomorrow. A small minority government must listen to the Riksdag. When the signals are sent tomorrow, we'll know what's going on.
i-QCjMMS468xwB5WNf9FhVWi	Madam President, I would like Today we are discussing planning and construction. I was going to raise cultural issues linked to construction and planning, the wishes of the countryside and the general complement building of the community. If you are moving an existing building today, this means that you are moving from old building requirements to new building requirements. We have seen such examples in connection with one third of Kiruna's city being moved. Old fine buildings become, unfortunately, partially distorted. We in the Swedish Democrats believe that, in terms of our Swedish cultural heritage, there must be considerable powers to allow for deviations from new building requirements when a property is moved. For this reason, the report deals with this important issue today. We are also pleased that there is support for this issue in committee. The same applies to full-timber houses, of which we have heard examples. It is an old Swedish building tradition. We believe that it is important for the government to evaluate the stricter requirements introduced in 2020 regarding energy management and thermal insulation in these buildings because they are not just any house but part of the Swedish building tradition. These full timber houses are examples of houses that could have an exception to the rules in force. We in Sweden today see it as natural to safeguard our Swedish cultural heritage in terms of construction. As far as the wishes of rural areas are concerned, the report contains a number of important proposals, and we are pleased that there is support for them too. These include proposals for unmanned rural shops of up to 50 square metres. The construction permit investigation has put forward proposals for the abolition of building permit requirements and notification requirements to decorate these stores in existing spaces. That's a good thing. We want to support the proposal that there is to exempt more requirements from building permit requirements and notification requirements for new construction, for example for unmanned rural shops. These are important things for rural areas to continue to develop in a positive way for Sweden today. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 8 on building permits in connection with farm sales. It is now unclear what requirements will be imposed on the farm sales activities of a subsequent environmental inspection. This is why we believe that it is necessary to introduce requirements for building boards to be able to provide the information requested in an application for a building permit on the basis of the building permit. This is important in order to develop farm sales in rural areas today. The last area in the report that I would like to highlight is the complementary residential buildings. The construction permit investigation comes with positive proposals to remove the building permit requirements and notification currently available for complementary residential buildings. On the other hand, one goes in a slightly negative direction when one believes that the obligation of praise should be introduced for complementary residential buildings. It is to depart from the recently adopted decision of the Riksdag on the notification of building permits for that type of building only. This is a step in the wrong direction, we mean from the Swedish Democrats. With these three descriptions of the area planned for construction, I call for reservation 8.
i-QoGuZyxBrvrSuigJRp17tm	Madam President, I would like It's an election year, and the dream of every legitimate housing politician is that the problems in the housing market will have their rightful place in the election movement – but that is unlikely to happen. Madam President, I would like As a result of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, we are already seeing more than 100 people who have come to Sweden to seek refuge in our country. It is not foreseeable how large the refugee flows from the attacked independent country will be, and these people will at least need somewhere to live in the short term. And for this, the Planning and Construction Act is an enabler, for example, to convert business premises into housing quickly. That should be something that the Planning and Construction Act would allow in a faster way than today. It should be possible to change the purpose of a local within an already adopted detailed plan, and that should be a step towards faster and more efficient reception of the currents that we unfortunately expect because of the war. The challenges are so great and the needs so many that it takes several party leadership debates to get the concepts out and make the contradictions clear between us who want to change and improve and those who want to maintain at all costs the order that already exists and that have created the problems that exist today and decades ago. Too many people do not have a home because too few dwellings are being built and the costs are high for building and renovating. Madam President, I would like The debate is often characterized by not in my backyard mentality, that is to say, housing for more people but not so that it affects me and the living situation I have now. While it is a reasonable position to have as a private individual, just as it has become part of the energy policy debate in some municipalities, those who are opposed to something want to scare people by turning the benefits to the detriment of a collective of people who have had no reasonable opportunity to understand what is going on. Madam President, I would like It was precisely these strings that were fought this summer when a campaign aimed at making the threshold a little lower for those who have waited a long time for a tenancy instead made sure to scare 3 1⁄2 million unsuspecting tenants who fortunately already have a home and who, moreover, would not be affected more than marginally by the better conditions that would be given to build new ones through free renting in new production. Madam President, I would like That is not what the debate should be about today when the theme is planning and construction, but ultimately it is still the economic conditions that govern housing construction. The Planning and Construction Act can be said to be the infrastructure, while it is the construction companies, the builders and the property owners that drive the train to the goal. It is the economic conditions, both for those who build and rent out and for those who rent or buy a dwelling, that must meet in a free market. This is not characterised by the fact that the State intervenes with billions in aid and grants to listed construction and real estate companies. In Sweden, it is important to run such companies and build housing for people. We may have support, but it should be directed to those who are in real need of roof over their heads and to markets where housing is needed, but there is absolutely no financial basis to make the calculation go together, even though we have an identified need to build. We are talking about Sweden's small municipalities and rural areas. Regulatory simplifications in the Planning and Construction Act for building permits, planning and construction are like laying a new and more even track where trains can reach their goal faster and at lower fares for those involved. However, for every old rule that is removed, there seem to be several new ones, and instead of reducing the circle of stakeholders that can appeal to a case, the dust gates seem open to even more people who can complain and stop a case. Madam President, I would like There are many claims that are not taken up here because they will be dealt with in a simplified way this year. Instead, I should like to refer to my and the Centre Party's housing policy exercise Housing and green community building with 68 specific, individual requests and concentrate on the proposals that are being discussed here today. In this report, there are three very clear decisions on regulatory simplifications that the Center Party has supported and also put forward. Two of them concern the case rules. Friggebod and attefallshus are well-known and popular reforms named by bourgeois housing ministers in different eras and which we need to protect and develop. I can see that the bolunder was not something that struck. In our motion, the Center Party has proposed that additional buildings should be made even larger than today's 30 square metres, and the Construction Act investigation, which many have talked about here, has proposed just 50 square metres outside of the planned area. We see this as something positive, of course. For us, it is important that these continue to be free of building permits as long as they remain within the regulatory framework in terms of building heights and proximity to the site boundary. We are therefore opposed to any proposal to introduce building permits. Conscious that a building notification can also be appealed with the legal uncertainty that prevails, we want an exception for building permits as well as for notification. This shall apply to roof cups as well as skylights. The Centre Party has been brought to the attention of an inconsistency, namely that a roof cup that changes the shape of the building is exempt from building permits in accordance with the case rules, while a roof window that is in line with the roof shape requires the application and decision on building permits. We are correcting this with the decision that is being taken here, and that is to be welcomed. Thus, one or two roofing cups can be built according to the fall rules, but if a window is considered to be a change of facade. Putting solar cells on the roof is therefore allowed but not to set up a window. The construction permit investigation also proposes that unattended rural shops should be free of building permits if they have a maximum area of 50 square metres. The Center Party is pleased that this has been speeded up and notes that the investigation has brought us together in terms of being able to transform buildings outside of planned areas and also to build new ones in the form of cafes or shops, which of course should also be able to be manned and, if necessary, larger than 50 square metres. The construction permit investigation did not provide support for riding houses, but for cafés, so we will return to that requirement at a later stage. The energy requirements for full-timber housing should be challenging but not impossible. The committee has drawn attention to the special conditions for building in this age-old technology with solid timber in timber. I am sure that the industry, which mainly exists and operates within Dalarna, has its customers' operating costs for added energy in mind when they seal and isolate between logs, in house knots and against roof, floor and house foundations. The committee's decision to opt out is conditional on Boverket's construction regulations for U-average making further construction difficult or impossible with this age-old technology. It is of course desirable that full-timber house manufacturers, just as Boverket believes and thinks, can meet the requirements of Boverket's building regulations, but these exceptions must not, of course, lead to negligence and cheating. The Center Party would rather see houses full-time than ugly. Since the Center Party is now getting most of our policy through with the claims that are being dealt with here, there are only a few reservations to be accepted. I would like to support the second reservation, which deals with the problems of construction waste in demolition, construction and civil engineering. When all the discussions are about how to build both cost-effective and climate-smart, it worries us that there is still a potential to recycle more and exploit more of the waste that occurs in the form of concrete elements, stone, excavation masses and also sheet metal, wood, plastic and glass.
i-CQKBo2XJJS7NhuozWmcvtz	Madam President, I would like Since the committee has had a simplified preparation of the report, the Left Party has not been able to lift its motions. I therefore allow myself to use my speaking time to talk about the policy of the Left Party, which I have not been able to lift during the preparation process. We are debating planning and construction. Housing deprivation, housing segregation and a huge need for climate change characterise today's Swedish housing policy. What Sweden would in fact need is an active state housing policy that also financially contributes to the construction of more environmentally friendly rentals with reasonable rents. There would be a need for state and regional planning that dares to put pressure on those municipalities that currently do not take their fair share of housing responsibility for all residents, including those with the lowest income. There would also be a need for a government policy that takes seriously the need to renovate and energy-efficient the existing multi-dwelling stock. Madam President, I would like The objective of state housing policy must be an equal and sustainable development of society – not only economically and ecologically but also socially. Such political responsibility is not much visible today. On the contrary, a comprehensive state housing policy that works on the basis of the principle of general welfare feels very far away. Class divisions are increasing, and housing segregation is increasing. Different groups today live completely apart from each other in residential areas which differ in terms of the physical environment but in particular in terms of average income, the level of education of residents, their health and their life expectancy. Madam President, I would like There are simply two completely different worlds, and those in this House do not all too rarely represent the highest-life zones. There is constant talk in this House about the need for mixed housing areas. But it's never in the nice areas it should mix. In these areas a mixture is rarely or never welcome. Instead, various parties take to the big sledgehammer and start talking about tearing down the ugly houses in the problem areas. That is when it is understood that these Members have never lived there themselves. True, physical environments can contribute to the feeling of exclusion. But basically, issues of exclusion and segregation are about getting the same opportunities for education and work. Madam President, I would like Instead, the focus should be on all municipalities taking greater responsibility for housing provision for all residents, regardless of income. The rich municipalities too must take this responsibility, which they are not doing today. Madam President, I would like Greater pressure should be put on all municipalities to ensure that more cheap rentals are built that ordinary people can afford – housing for ordinary people. In this, the state has a hugely important role to play. Madam President, I would like Housing provision in the country is not just a municipal issue. It is a municipal, regional and state issue. If all municipalities in a county are to contribute to building up the housing shortage in a way that in every way contributes to a more sustainable society, a clearer regional and state governance is required. The housing shortage is great, and there are many municipalities that actually want more to be built. However, the current land policy tools of municipalities are not enough to achieve higher housing construction. Today's housing shortage drives up prices on land. As a result, developers who have had access by the municipality to planned land in order to build on it do not build because they hope for further rising land prices and higher return on their investment later on. This, Madam President, is totally unacceptable. The Construction Law Investigation Report A faster construction of housing contains a number of concrete proposals aimed at ensuring that municipalities are able to make greater use of building rights without undue delay. The Government's preparation of the Construction Law investigation's proposal is under way, and I hope that proposals will be returned as soon as possible to address the problem. Madam President, I would like The report addresses the issue of energy efficiency. We cannot talk about housing, planning and construction without talking about the climate issue. The construction and real estate sector accounts for a large part of the environmental impact and energy use in society. If we are to achieve the national environmental quality objectives, the energy use of the built environment must be reduced. Madam President, I would like No one has missed that the electricity prices in Sweden today are disastrously high, especially in the municipality I come from, Malmö in southern Sweden. What the future has to offer in terms of our energy supply, I don't think anyone dares to tell us. At a time when there is perhaps more than ever a need for government instruments for energy efficiency, at the turn of the year the support for energy efficiency in multi-residential buildings was rapidly and very uncomfortable – a phase-out that was outrageous in many ways. Madam President, I would like Large parts of the Swedish multi-detached building stock are in great need of renovation and energy efficiency, especially properties in the million-dollar programme. The renovation requirement is estimated to be acute in a total of 140 000 apartments. If all these homes were energy-efficient, a major difference could be achieved for the whole of society. Madam President, I would like However, targeted State aid is crucial to meeting the needs. In this situation, however, when aid is completely phased out, it will also, of course, hit society as a whole hard. Madam President, I would like In particular, it will affect the tenants. Without the support, it is they who have to pay the entire bill. The Left Party wants to reintroduce and also increase support for energy efficiency and renovation of multi-residential buildings. The main aim is to achieve a more efficient use of energy in the built environment, but the aim is also to contribute to tenants not having to leave their homes due to shock-height rentals in connection with renovation. Madam President, I would like The government's housing ministers usually say in the debates that many rental apartments are being built and that more will be built. However, if the rental apartments built have rentals that are in some cases 50 percent higher than current rentals, they will not help the most difficult people today. Today's Minister for Housing rules with a budget that cancels all support for rental rights – support for energy efficiency and also investment support for building rental apartments with lower rents. In both cases, the poorest in society are the hardest hit, as usual. The bourgeois half of the House, for its part, tends to say a little contemptuously that investment aid has contributed zero and nothing. It is perhaps true that investment support is not of the greatest benefit and pleasure to their constituents. They keep picking out tax billions for their own homes. So why work for investment aid for rentals? In fact, last year around 40% of new rentals were built with investment support. The rents in these dwellings are on average SEK 2 000 lower for 70 square metres than in the corresponding dwellings that were built without the support. It may not be that much money for the majority in this House, but it is a crucial difference for a great many households in that country. The report raises the issue of excluding timber houses from energy management requirements. In addition to the current review of the construction rules at Boverket, a recent study has shown that it is not possible to conclude that timber houses do not meet current energy requirements. We can see that the new, tougher energy requirements are more or less cost-driven in different situations. This must be set against the energy savings of the investments made. A higher investment cost means many times lower operating costs and therefore cost-effectiveness in a longer perspective. Madam President, I would like In addition, the cost issue is a question to which every developer must relate, regardless of the type of building involved. Should an exception be introduced for certain designated types of houses, the risk is obvious that other groups will also want to be excluded. This would not be appropriate in view of the purpose of the construction rules and energy requirements. Therefore, we do not believe that Parliament should take any initiative in relation to the motion in the motion. We have therefore written a reservation together with S and MP, and I ask for the approval of reservation 4. With regard to the issue of exceptions to the building permit requirements in the report, unlike the Moderates, for example, we believe that the construction permit investigation has concluded that building permits should always be required for complementary residential buildings. The construction permit investigation has carried out a thorough investigation and provided detailed justifications for its proposals. We do not believe that it is appropriate to anticipate the very extensive work currently under way on the preparation of the proposals of the Constructionlov investigation, including the views of the consultation bodies, through announcements on various sub-questions. At this stage, this type of instructions at a detailed level can hardly contribute to a good overall solution. On the contrary, there is a risk that the process of getting an appropriate planning and construction framework in place may be unnecessarily delayed. So there is no need for any announcement to the government on this issue, in our view. I stand behind all the Left Party reservations, but for time winning, as I said, I only agree to reservation 4.
i-QDDi5DUmxfvRm9oUN3MAV8	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that I am very pleased that we have been able to agree on three announcements, which aim to make it easier and to benefit the individual who wants to build a house or rebuild a house. I think that's good. If you look at the whole picture, you can see that according to Boverket's regional construction needs calculations, which came on 21 December 2021 and extends until 2030, 600 000 new homes need to be built in Sweden to meet the needs that exist. It is also worth noting that seven out of ten of these homes need to be built in the metropolitan regions. On a map of Sweden, the metropolitan regions are basically Gothenburg, Stockholm and Malmö. It is around these cities that new housing is needed, and we need to do something about it. Based on this part of Boverket's report, we have great challenges to take care of and meet with new housing. By new housing I mean the right type of housing, in the right places, for the people who need a dwelling or another type of dwelling. You can add this picture together with the large price increases for small houses and the long queues for rental apartments. Then it is clear that we may not have succeeded in our task in this House, that is to say, we have not been able to deliver the number of homes that our citizens need. It may seem remarkable that one as a nation does not come up in the housing construction needed to meet the need. But who is actually taking the direction? Is it the Riksdag that does it? No, it's not. We do not make decisions about the number of homes that need to be built in Sweden. Is it the government that does it? No, the government makes no decisions on the number of homes needed in Sweden. We put this on the municipalities. As a municipal politician, you can see that you have enough to control what happens within your own municipality. Possibly you can look at your region. But you don't take full responsibility for the whole nation. My view is that the Riksdag and the Government need to take a responsibility in deciding how many homes need to be built. It is also about objectives and means to manage it and to be able to carry out an evaluation on this basis. You don't. We do not want to do that, even though we have been discussing this for years. Maybe it's comfort. You may find it quite simple and comfortable that the municipalities have this responsibility, and you do not have to be held accountable yourself. I think we need to take such a responsibility at national level. What are the important measures that could be taken? Yes, one of the most important measures to increase housing construction is to increase the supply of buildable land. Often it is said that the problem is that you do not have enough buildable land. This could, for example, encourage the over-planning of municipalities. If a construction project does not work or does not go on time, then you have another project that takes over that part. We Christian Democrats have proposed having a planning bonus to help municipalities overplan. We could also make other measures that are good for municipal planning. For example, we could allow the county boards to identify possible areas for new construction. This could help the municipalities. Where is it possible? Where do the county administrative boards think it's possible? However, it is the municipalities themselves that decide where it should be. In my opinion, a map of the buildable land should be included in a register accessible to the public. Then others can also take the initiative to build on those sites and make a planning together with the municipalities. I believe that the help of county boards and a planning bonus can increase the buildable land. It is also a matter of over-planning. We know from experience, for example, that one does the easiest thing when one has not overplanned. It's about the fastest. Most of the dwellings built are multi-family buildings. What all the studies show is that Sweden actually needs small houses. It always comes at the bottom of the priority. In order to be able to get more small houses in Sweden, it is important to overplan – and a planning bonus is extremely important. There is a need for small houses, and we believe that it is people who should decide what kind of housing they should live in and not the state. Garden cities were a concept that grew up in cities during the beginning of the 20th century to combat the severe housing shortage that existed at the time. It's a little bit familiar. Now there is also a housing shortage. The target group was the working class, which could build a home at an affordable cost. It could be quite right today that we should be able to find such situations. The houses that were built were then associated with social sustainability and good growing-up conditions for children. This could also be dealt with today in the context of housing construction. I believe that the right methods can be used to build garden cities at reasonable prices. In fact, a family with children in the 21st century could then have the same opportunities as a family with children at the beginning of the 20th century. It is reasonable that families with children's own ownership, security and freedom have not diminished in the last hundred years. I believe that the national level should be an active partner in promoting the emergence of new garden cities in places that can reasonably be linked to functioning infrastructure paths. A first step is a revision of the PBL in order to allow temporary derogations or other derogations from provisions that stand in the way of housing construction. These may include, for example, exceptions to the requirements relating to public interests, design and property requirements for construction works, detailed planning requirements and building permit rules. We believe that it is very important to look at the needs and to build on the needs. Unfortunately, the government does not seem to think that it is very important – it is the number of homes that are built that is most important. Madam President, I would like We welcome the new Act on Climate Declaration for Buildings but note that the Act currently does not cover construction in the outdoor environment. It can be about square environments. This could be port areas and city parks. Such construction projects may have at least the same amount of material as the construction of residential properties. We simply believe that it is an oversight or a mistake from the government that this is not part of the climate declaration. That is why I am in favour of Amendment No 1, which contains this.
i-KrY3ByNqf4qWWaRftMNvjo	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that we support all our reservations, but for the benefit of time, I only ask for reservation number 1. When you listen to our debate, planning and construction can be perceived as somewhat complicated and perhaps a little rigid. Unfortunately, I will not add much more life to the debate. But one of the most basic things is that we should live and live throughout our country, that is, have a roof over our heads. We now see in the war-torn Ukraine that people do not have the freedom to live safely in their houses. That is why this debate becomes extremely important, albeit rigid. This is something we need to fight and work for. Our construction directly affects people's right to health and freedom. It will therefore be extremely important to start with our climate and our environment. Where we live belongs to our nature. So it's about where we put our homes. It's this planet we have to build on. Building and housing is a strategically important sector in terms of coping with the transition to a climate and environmentally sustainable society. The construction and real estate sector accounts for a total of around 19 per cent of Sweden's total greenhouse gas emissions. Gradually reducing and eventually eliminating net emissions from this sector is therefore crucial. The efforts to reduce the climate impact of the construction and real estate sector must be linked to the overall climate policy. The most important measures are general, and they are about effective economic instruments based on the principle that the emitter should pay. Added to this are regulatory changes in order to gradually drive the transition to climate-neutral solutions. Climate declarations are an important way forward, but we should not stay there. For example, in the case of public procurement, effective and general requirements should be set for the whole country in order to further drive the climate transition. Madam President, I would like Now I got so stiff again, but let me get back to the core: our accommodation and the environment where we live. I am thinking of those who have had the privilege of building their own house, where no house has been built in the past, i.e. on a natural site. They have been able to place their house among the trees, stones, streams, and sungs. The people who have experienced that journey have easier access to the fact that housing construction is something that affects our nature and our environment. What and how we build in a place affects our freedom to live in that environment. At the same time, we depend on the planet and the nature in which we build and live. Of course, it is also about the people we have around us where we build – neighbors and friends. I myself have the privilege of being on my third building for myself. In my working life, they are countless. I don't bring every tree house in the yard. I get the feeling of sitting on a plot and looking out over a grove of trees, having the chainsaw in my hand and thinking: You want me to clear the whole lot of Santa Claus? I get to sit there and watch the rain fall, see how it finds its way into the ground when the digging bucket starts digging and think about the watering down of the plot. How am I supposed to cope with a rainstorm on this land too? I also get to imagine where I need to look for shade to sit there and have meetings over a cup of coffee with the neighbors on the street and where the children will find natural places to play. Madam President, I would like This perspective is extremely important when we debate planning and construction, especially how we build our cities and suburbs. It places demands on good urban planning in terms of the environment and the sustainable development we need. For us in the Liberals, the environment and public health are extremely important in urban planning. I don't think it's escaped anyone now. Cities with a green structure have a better local climate than cities without. We can call them garden cities or talk about a domestic movement, but the thing is that the green cities can cope with climate change that rains better and has greater biodiversity. In a city with gardens in the settlements, the inhabitants simply feel better. But in the drive to build new residential areas, cities are being condensed to make land use more efficient. This makes it easy for sports areas to be prioritised down and for play and movement to be reduced. When planning residential areas and infrastructure, this must be done with people at the centre, especially the small person. It is important to include schools, sports associations and civil society. Madam President, I would like As we have already mentioned in the debate, it also needs to be simpler, faster and less complicated to build. For example, houses should be type approved. The same house can today be assessed differently depending on the municipality in which it is located. Type approval would facilitate, in particular, more industrial construction, such as modular building. It can also have a positive effect on the treatment of building permit cases on the heavily burdened building permits departments in our municipalities by shortening the processing times. In order to create greater variety of housing, we think that a new self-home movement is needed. I am pleased that some of my committee colleagues are also concerned about this. We are not saying that it was better in the past, but we say that there are good things to lift and not forget, especially when it comes to vulnerable areas. Municipalities need to plan for more of townhouses, small houses and villas in areas dominated by a residential form, such as rental apartments. In addition, the detailed plans must be flexible so that you can build more small houses that set their own mark and create variation in the housing market. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to highlight what is absolutely crucial for building housing: land. Today we have long appeal proceedings that contribute to the development of less land for construction. We can tell the market that it will take care of that, but we need to create the right conditions. Today, there is strong pressure to buy and own a home. We need to make this easier on the ground. We also need to think about this with the body of parties, that is, those who have the right to appeal a decision. It must be limited to those who are really concerned. Another measure that could speed up the construction process is the introduction of a low appeal fee. I think it would help. A small threshold is needed to be able to appeal, otherwise these appeals escalate. There is much to do, Madam President. Much good is already being done. Our construction is well on its way. That's good. Building laws are important, but we must not lose the reason for building: every person's right to a dwelling and to live and live in our nature, in our environment, throughout the country.
i-7B3aqjEnq5ZDeexaS5Yxmm	Madam President, I would like Alexander Christiansson has asked me how the government intends to act to save companies and trade between Strömstad and the Swedish border. Creating new jobs and safeguarding existing jobs is a prerequisite for breaking segregation, which in turn is one of the government's priority issues. The government is aware that the border trade has been severely affected by the pandemic. Therefore, the Swedish Government has had very close contact with Norway regarding the situation in border regions and entry restrictions. On 9 February, the Government lifted all restrictions on entry into Sweden from the Nordic countries and other EU and EEA countries. As of 12 February, Norway has also removed its entry restrictions against other EEA countries. The pandemic is weakening, and with continued vaccination the conditions are good for regaining effective border trade between our countries. To strengthen the companies that are still affected, the Government has decided on further reforms for 2022 of SEK 74 billion. These are measures to create new jobs throughout the country through major investments in green conversion and increased general state aid to municipalities and regions. There are also targeted efforts to strengthen the links between our countries in the long term. The Interreg Sweden-Norway cross-border programme 2021-2027 plays an important role in maintaining and strengthening cross-border relations between countries.
i-VHcipfPKiGAk5EZBHt1UY4	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. We had booked this debate a few weeks ago. Unfortunately, because of the family quarantine, I had to cancel, but now we are finally here on a very important issue. The pandemic seems to be largely over, which is fantastic news not least for entrepreneurs and other citizens of the country. I was going to focus on the Metropolitan Area and briefly give those listening to this debate a picture of what Strömstad is for the city. Strömstad is well known for being a gem on the west Swedish coast. It is a small town; it is just over 6,000 inhabitants of this small town. The municipality as a whole has approximately 13,000 inhabitants. It is a fantastic place to be with the sea, the fragrance, the rocks and the bohus granite. I'm sure the government itself has been there. It's a very special and nice place to be. I would really urge all Swedish citizens to go and visit Strömstad if they have not been there. It's a unique municipality. It is unique in the sense that a small rural town like Strömstad has access to a huge trade. It really is. The place is connected to Norway in a unique way. It is not just about trade, it is about families and friends, about care and care, and about services that are exchanged between countries in such a way that you do not even feel that there is a border. It is such a relationship we have had with our sister people in Norway for many years. During the pandemic a very lovely picture was spread in many different newspapers. I thought I'd show it to the government here. The picture shows two identical twins, Ola and Pontus, 73 years old, who during the pandemic were not allowed to meet. They came once a week, sat down on Svinesundsbron and sat there and had a coffee together with a couple of meters between them. It is a charming picture, but it also describes what happened very quickly in this place, where you were used to moving and living a normal life across the border. All of a sudden there was a boom stop. That is something we have not seen in many, many years. The tapes were tested hard during the pandemic. There were many who described that on the Norwegian side they wanted Swedes to have yellow vests and other such things to excel – almost as if we had been plagued, I have heard some say. It was an incredibly deplorable picture that was spread, and it tried the tapes hard. Around Oslo, from Larvik on the west side to Halden on the east side, about 2 million people live on the Norwegian side. Border trade has a huge effect on Strömstad. The town, with 13 000 inhabitants, has a trade of approximately 150 000 inhabitants. The border trade had a turnover of SEK 28 billion in 2019; it is incredibly much. But very quickly they lost their turnover. I was going to ask the Minister a question, because I know you are aware of this too. Nordic cooperation is incredibly important, and it is something that the local entrepreneurs often lift. The Minister says in his reply that there has been contact between governments. I was going to ask what it is supposed to lead to and what can be done to guarantee the people who live in Strömstad that this will not happen again in the long term.
i-RcTcTAhPbyPPGCNMU4f3S	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Alexander Christiansson, for pointing out a very important industry for trade and for Sweden! You're absolutely right that this is something that affects our entire country. It provides plenty of employment in places that previously had a rather difficult time with employment. This applies not least to northern Värmland, where many new jobs have now emerged and where there is even a shortage of labour today. This is very important. Since becoming Minister for Enterprise, I have had two meetings with my Norwegian colleague. On both occasions we have talked about how we should maintain open borders in the future even if the pandemic strikes again. Just like Alexander Christiansson, this is an old promise between Sweden and Norway since 1955, which could easily be removed when the pandemic struck. Our old rules and approaches changed only overnight. Unfortunately, I am not convinced that it would help even if we were to write new declarations and new papers that we could never close our trade. I think it will be very difficult to reach an agreement that is more binding than the one we wrote back in 1955. In our contact with the Norwegian Government – it is above all Minister Hallberg who has had the ongoing contact – we have tried to get the border opened on several occasions during the pandemic but not been successful. There is another initiative we have taken from the Ministry of Industry in recent months that we must hope for. The vaccine researchers are now more optimistic because, thanks to new technology and medical development in the life science sector, they believe that they now have a method for each new form of virus to have an effective vaccine within 100 days. Our strategy has simply been to start a Nordic collaboration with all the Nordic countries, where we will try to create an opportunity for the Nordic countries to have a quick change of pace when it comes to being able to make vaccines for the Nordic countries. Alexander Christiansson knows for sure that we have taken the initiative in Matfors outside Sundsvall to build such a facility together with the private business community. In this way, we can simply end up in the situation we are in now, in March 2022, although it could have been in May 2020 instead. That's the strategy we have at the Ministry of Enterprise to try to help solve this. Of course, Madam President, we will do everything we can to also talk to the Norwegians to see if a more binding agreement can be found. It will be difficult to adapt one's economy and trade when conditions change by law only overnight. At the same time, to paint with a little brighter colors: We have seen that with the great efforts we made to save business, we have also met border trade relatively well. After all, we see that many have succeeded in overwintering their activities. There have been bankruptcies, but not to the extent that we feared from the outset. We hope that the new situation with vaccines and where the pandemic is going will be able to secure the border trade from Strömstad to the border, as your question applied from the beginning. We are more optimistic, and with a new vaccine possibility in the Nordic countries, we hope that we can ensure that we never again experience the hard years we have had during the pandemic.
i-QQAiocpQRc8q1Yf4HvzwC4	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. Dialogue between governments is clearly central. We Swedish democrats have also, not least through the Nordic Council, worked hard to make this dialogue even tighter and better in the long term. I would like to inform the Minister that Göran Lundgren, Operations Manager at Grensemat, welcomes the Minister and the Nordic Council to Strömstad to learn from what has happened during the great period of decline of border trade. Many companies there could lose up to 98% of their turnover, so there were huge losses. I also know that our members of the Nordic Council have taken the issue of meeting in Strömstad to the Swedish delegation in the Nordic Council. In his reply, the Minister just mentioned the support, in an attempt to paint with a little brighter colors. I think it is not only me but also many companies out there, not least small businesses – the tourism industry is a good example – who may not always share the picture that the support has reached the right company on time. There are many companies which have been severely affected and which have since not been able to seek support for various reasons and have not been paid out. In the Growth Analysis review it was found that the major winners of the aid were the manufacturing industry and the major losers the hotel industry. It says quite a lot about the government's priorities, I mean, when it comes to the view of small businesses and the companies that I believe are built much of the growth, job creation and innovations that we need to become a strong service economy. By that I do not mean that the manufacturing industry is not important. Of course it is. But I can sometimes feel that we're still alive in the '80s when we talk about these things. I feel like the systems are a little out of date. I believe that we need to work together to make our society more dynamic, not least in politics, and more flexible to meet the needs of business. Another entrepreneur working with e.g. commerce in Strömstad is Ulf Palm. Above all, he is amazed that there has been such a tone deafening when it comes to taking on criticism and views about parts with obvious weaknesses and ill-thought-out arrangements. Instead of being open to the comments made, the same mistakes have been made time and again. Unfortunately, he says, I think the answer to why this has happened is that there has been no understanding or understanding of the weaknesses in the decisions taken. It is a picture that we in the Swedish Democrats share and which the opposition has also often raised in this House as a criticism of the government's work during the pandemic. I've worked in the retail sector myself. I have worked with different companies and also had customers up in Strömstad, and I know how difficult it is with the skills supply up there. It's an incredible challenge. If other places in Sweden have major challenges with skills supply, it is nothing compared to what Strömstad has. It is difficult to attract labour, especially key roles, up there. You're moving up a whole family, and it's pretty tough. Göran and Ulf have a question. Important issues are intertwined between ministers. That's not good, because there's no overview. It is felt that no minister has actually assumed responsibility for what has happened to border trade during the pandemic. The question is, then, why ministers have worked in drains on such an important issue both for the economy and for society as a whole.
i-NB1ZLotpHfM8oYWogqLaxS	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Alexander Christiansson, for your follow-up question! I think that there is reason to criticise both the government and the parliament in some areas in terms of how we dealt with pandemic aid at the beginning. It was very difficult for companies to see without precondition how aid would change their ability to operate as a company. However, the big picture is – it has started to be evaluated now – that we have, after all, been among the best in Europe to manage our business. Then there is no comfort for the individual, and the questioners you mention may be among those who have been affected when it has not worked. There's no way to conclude that it's worked for everyone. However, the fact remains: When you start evaluating the impact of the aid in Sweden – there has been support of almost SEK 400 billion, so it has been considerably increased – you can see that the Swedish companies experience, and it is also supported by statistics, that Sweden as a nation has survived the pandemic among the best in Europe. We are the first country to have a higher profile after the pandemic than we had before the pandemic. We're not going to settle down with it in any way. We'll design the supports so they always work, because they don't always. The industries themselves tell us that the first period, when we were very generous and did not ask so much questions from the authorities, was a better period than when the Riksdag then tightened the regulations around to get the support. The problem there, like many other times, was criminality. We saw a large outflow of resources to non-serious companies, and so we tightened the rules on two occasions so that it would work better and that we could avoid crime. I also welcome your invitation. It is not I who am responsible for the Minister for the Nordic Region, but it is Minister Hallberg who is responsible for this. But I'm gonna take the question to her. I don't think she has anything against coming to Strömstad with the Nordic Council. But it is not for me to decide the question, but for us to ask Minister Hallberg if she is interested in taking this forward. I think we have a lot to learn from the close cooperation in the Nordic countries. I have already met the Norwegian Minister for Economic Affairs on two occasions, and I will go to Norway and continue the dialogue the next week. We need to talk a lot and find new solutions to these kinds of problems – and many others where we as the Nordic countries can come out stronger than each country. The Nordic countries are an important priority for the government. How to allocate support and develop support in the future? Now we have a more normal situation, and I hope that we can evaluate the various parts of the aid. Some support is still in place. For example, we have extended some of the subsidies until 30 June to be on the safe side, so that there are no effects of covid coming back. At least I can promise Alexander Christiansson that we have done everything we can to mitigate the impact on industry. But it is clear: Take the border trade, where from one day to another you lose the entire customer base. It is very difficult to arrange a policy that should be general and at the same time solve these very special problems. I hope and believe that the industry received some answers last autumn. When the pandemic went down after the summer, border trade increased quite sharply during the autumn months. The hope the government has – and we have some positive indications – is that the current of Norwegians who go over and shop on the Swedish side now begins again, much as we Swedes did in the late 60s and early 70s. I myself was involved in buying goods in Norway at some point. Border trade has been a phenomenon for a long time, and we shall do the best we can to make it easier in the future too.
i-QhsZU16Ldkuk2ZeiJ6GAKj	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, once again. Now this debate is not really about subsidies, but I still cannot stand by. It sounds like – I have also made that criticism several times to the former Minister of Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan – that the subsidies come out and are quite adapted to different sectors, but in reality they are not. It has created great mistrust of the system of many entrepreneurs, and I consider that to be very serious. There is justification for another debate on it. I would like to thank the Minister for Enterprise for this debate. It's been rewarding. My image as a Swedish Democrat is that much could have been done much better. Much could have been handled much better and faster from the government. Now, as I said, we have left the pandemic to a large extent, which is very positive not least for border trade, but I will certainly have reason to pursue the Minister in the future on other issues relating to these subjects. The target is clear and agreed by our Nordic countries. It means that by 2030 we will be the most sustainable and integrated region. We will be able to travel, study and work throughout the Nordic region – this is the goal of Nordic cooperation. If we are to get there, I and the Swedish Democrats mean that there are many things that need to be done, especially in the dialogue with our neighbours. That is why the Minister's statement that this work has begun is positive. It will be interesting to see that the Minister is also following it up and working actively to tie the ties stronger, because we need it. We need it to be a strong part of the world that develops and has a strong innovation power. Ulf, Göran and I have one final question. We would like to know if there is any interest on the part of the Minister in setting up an investigation to see what went wrong in relations between the countries when the pandemic struck and why things could go so badly on the border between Sweden and Norway.
i-W3cBfFyVWQ2jr9Cpw2qXGo	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Alexander Christiansson! I can't promise a straight-up investigation. I do not believe that the Minister can stand in the speaker's seat in Parliament and say what to do. I have great sympathy for the issue, and I also think that there is reason for not only Sweden and Norway but the whole of the Nordic region and perhaps even wider, the whole of Europe, to think about how to look at border protection in relation to a pandemic. We do not know anything about the future, and we hope that we will never have to experience this period again. But, as I said, there is much to talk about because we are going to experience other disruptions that restrict freedom of movement in many ways. I share your view, Alexander Christiansson, that the more we know, the better we can plan for crisis. So that is not an unwarranted question. I'll take it to my Norwegian colleague and see if he has any interest in us taking this further and looking at how it should work. As I said before, before we went on a break, I think it is difficult to write anything more binding than the promise we have to each other from 1955. We shall have open and free movement between the Nordic countries. We have lived in this way for 60 years, and when the pandemic struck, they still became closed borders. I was on my way on a fishing trip over Gäddede one night this summer, just in the border country near the suspension, and had to wait a couple of hours for them to open the border crossing in the morning. It felt something odd. I have made that trip to fishing once every year since 1991, and to stand and wait for a border guard between Norway and Sweden felt directly wrong. We are happy to come back to this issue and see what else we can do to resolve this in the long term. I think the best method we can use is to ensure that we always have access to a vaccine so that we can get out of a pandemic faster. It is the best insurance we can have against disruptions between our countries, and I think it is the best way forward. Thank you for a good discussion!
i-9x4P1mmY2HxdhrNWqKZwwk	Madam President, I would like Mrs Ann-Britt has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that the important tourism industry survives the pandemic. For large parts of society, covid-19 has presented considerable difficulties, and the unpredictability of the pandemic has been a major challenge. In order to increase the possibility of one more forward planning, the Government presented in spring 2021 a plan for the elimination of restrictions and later in the autumn also a plan for the reintroduction of restrictions. But on February 2nd this year, the government and the Public Health Agency were able to provide information about lifting restrictions. The tourism industry is a major job and integration engine that contributes to entrepreneurship and attractiveness throughout the country. The industry has been severely affected by the pandemic. To support fundamentally viable companies, the government has decided on comprehensive financial crisis support. The Government has decided on conversion aid for fixed costs and turnover aid for individual traders and partnerships for December until February. In addition, the possibility of temporary tax deferrals has been extended. The Parliament has also taken a decision on the Government's proposal for an amending budget, proposal 2021/ 22:113. The decision introduces, inter alia, the possibility of extending the period of temporary tax deferral by a further 36 months, provided that the companies comply with an individual payment plan at the same time. The decision on the proposal also includes extended event support until June and temporary withdrawal period for short-term support. In the budget proposal for 2022, an investment of SEK 100 million is made in order to strengthen the long-term competitiveness of the tourism industry. Measures included include competence and business development, marketing of Sweden, strengthening change and conversion capacity in companies and knowledge support. The pandemic will, of course, affect the tourism industry for quite a long time to come. The recovery will take time. The green transition, digitalisation, innovation, accessibility and skills supply were important issues even before the pandemic and will continue to be so. All of this is highlighted by the government in the national strategy for sustainable tourism and growing tourism tourism, which is a national framework for the next ten years. With the strategy, the government will point out the long-term direction and the desired location for Swedish tourism and tourism in ten years' time. This can help to establish a common understanding that can facilitate sustainable development throughout the tourism industry.
i-9bnUthLfcZuGRcy3XKiNNx	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The pandemic has indeed been a difficult time for all of us, no matter where we have been. We have different experiences of these last two years and of how society has worked. I definitely share the Minister's view that the pandemic has been unpredictable and a major challenge and, with this debate, would like to focus on it for us, who live in Dalarna, so important the tourism industry. On 12 March 2020, the government introduced the first restrictions resulting from the coronapandemine when the number of participants at general meetings and public events was capped. There and then no one could understand the enormous effects the Corona virus would have on Swedish society and the tourism industry. In Dalarna, the income for accommodation, i.e. hotels, hostels, camping etc., has decreased by SEK 392 million or 18 percent. Swedish guest nights decreased by one-third and foreign guest nights decreased by three-quarters. The turnover of the restaurant industry plummeted by 30 per cent and continued to decline with alcohol restrictions and early closure to continue for Christmas 2021 with peaks. In practice, the industry was, it felt, grounded. During the period November 2020 – April 2021 we lost almost 70 per cent. Of course, this has meant that many people in the industry have seen their life's work fail. From the turn of the millennium until the outbreak of the pandemic, it grew sharply across the country, looking back at the tourism industry. Employment growth during this period was three times higher in the industry compared to the rest of the labour market. The creation of new jobs ended abruptly with the pandemic and the number of employees in the industry decreased by 52,000. Madam President, I would like In my county of Dalarna, this meant that over 1,600 people lost their jobs. This means that one in six employees in the tourism industry lost their job. During these two years of pandemic and restrictions, the situation for Dalarna's tourism industry has been very strained. Over the period, I have had many contacts with industry representatives, and these are sad stories to hear. Turnover has collapsed, businesses have been forced into bankruptcy, thousands of people have lost their jobs and the industry has been drained on skills. I have experienced during my visits to entrepreneurs in the industry that the support that entrepreneurs applied for in 2020 was only obtained in October 2021, i.e. it went quite a long time from the time they applied until they received the grants. Several companies were able to go bankrupt because the processes were bureaucratic and the payments were late. Certainly, the tourism industry sees a light with the lifting of restrictions, but it will take many years to build up what has been lost. And in Dalarna we have famous destinations where many tourists come, especially in wintertime. However, on the basis of the reply I received from the Minister for Economic Affairs, I would like further clarification. Because it was not quite clear. Extending the scope for tax deferral is a good thing. But that may only cause the bankruptcies to come two years later. I would like to know more specifically what the Minister for Economic Affairs intends to do to ensure that companies survive here and now.
i-XaJrEB7disQBkfD6wMQeXy	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ann-Britt Ann-Britt, for an important interpellation about the tourism industry and its conditions! Thank you also to the Minister for the first post! I am extremely pleased that Parliament has led the government to extend the tax suspension from the proposed 15 months to 36 months. This is important for companies. It is also important that the individual work plan they are to follow works for them and that they are understood. It is intended to pay aid which firms have not been able to apply for. It is not just that they have not met certain criteria, but it has been impossible to apply for them because there has been no knowledge of the functioning of partnerships and limited partnerships. It has therefore become an impossibility. So there was no money at all. It takes time to come back. At that time, entrepreneurs deserve policy to be taken into account. We all know that if business succeeds, it will do well for our society. As has been pointed out many times, this industry has been wet economically during the pandemic, due to restrictions that have meant that they have basically been banned from nutrition. Stopping times at the restaurant caused them to lose the second sitting in the evenings. It's been digging big holes in the economy. Now we are in a situation where many people want to book themselves at the spa and weekend trips and plan their holidays, if they do not choose to go abroad, which of course there is a concern for here at home. Restaurants, hotels and places to visit are ready. We shall rejoice in that. It's amazing. But there is also smok in the cup, and not so little. There is a pressing need for staff in the industry. Hotel rooms are to be set up, dinners are to be served and guest nights are to be filled. And food should be cooked, but chefs were scarce even before the pandemic. There were problems with growing nutrition. If this is to work in the future, it is important that there are staff to maintain quality, so that customers are not dissatisfied. At the same time, we know that at Arbetsförmedlingen there are a large number of people enrolled who have unfortunately had to leave their jobs during the pandemic and who have a background in the restaurant industry. This has been mentioned by Visita on a number of occasions. I do not know whether they have also called for the attention of the government to the existence of these people. It should be possible to match them. And it needs to be effective, so that it doesn't drag on. People are at the disposal of the labour market but are not working. I would like to know whether the government is active on this issue and whether there is a discussion with the trade association, even if the issue is also related to another department. As far as the fixed costs of companies are concerned, they do exist. As a self-employed person, you can't influence them. We also know that it is a particularly problematic location in southern Sweden and Skåne. There the revenue is eaten up by high electricity bills for heating facilities, kitchens, bathrooms and so on. The situation is really tough. Many live on scarce resources. There are family entrepreneurs who do what they can. They live off their own paychecks. It works temporarily, but not for more than maybe a month or two. A company has an electricity bill of 28 000 SEK for a couple of months. We know that tomorrow there will be high electricity bills again, depending on what is happening in the outside world. This affects Skåne, Blekinge, Kronoberg, Halland, Jönköping, parts of Kalmar County and Västra Götaland.
i-6R4YntfuDFhBGF5ZAhANJH	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank both Ann-Britt Ann-Britt and Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson for the questions. There are many issues in this area, and it deserves to be talked a lot about how to strengthen the industry in the coming years. I agree that the biggest problem has been that it has been twitchy, back and forth. A lot of people in the business have talked about that. Plans have been made for the next and the next few months have been destroyed when the Public Health Agency has asked the government to tighten the rules again. It has also gone back and forth many times, which has made it extremely difficult for the industry to predict. The government has had an ongoing discussion with the parties. Not least Visita has met many times since the pandemic began. I myself have already met the industry on three or four occasions in my role as Minister of Economic Affairs since 30 November. We have tried to adapt legislation and rules to meet the needs of the industry. I was in a different role when the subsidies were introduced in February and March in spring 2020. At that time, I was a party, as LO Chairman, and negotiated the subsidies. As a trade union, we agreed to rules that we would never have agreed to in a normal situation, such as short-term support during dismissal. It goes completely against any union logic that the employer should be supported by the state to dismiss people from a company. But the situation was so acute that everyone had to help out with everything we could and all the possibilities available. I say again that it is too early to write off the entire covidpandemic. We have to keep following the industry. When we have met the industry, we have also told them that they must remain on us if there are any remaining effects of the pandemic that we can deal with politically. The tax suspension is a good example. These are debts that have arisen during the pandemic. If we begin to recover those debts at the same time, it is clear that we are risking huge bankruptcies in the industry, Madam President. No one would benefit from that. I also think that the balance, that there should be a repayment plan from the Swedish Tax Agency, is reasonable. Then it will not be everything at once, but companies for companies can tell about and decide how to make a repayment plan over time. I think this will be safer for the industry and lead to the best development. I also agree with what you say when it comes to staff. It's an industry that laid off a lot of people at the beginning of the pandemic. There is talk of up to 50,000 people working full-time or working on short-term contracts in the industry being laid off. Many do not even appear in the statistics, because they did not switch to unemployment benefits but just disappeared out the door as hourly workers. What the industry itself addresses as a major problem today is that many of them took another job during the pandemic. That's good. We always want you to take another job available on the labour market. But now that the pandemic is waning and we see big bookings in the tourism industry, in hotels and restaurants, it is very difficult for the industry to get back the 50,000 people who disappeared. Already last autumn we saw large inflows of other Europeans into the Swedish labour market to help the industry. We may have to do even more to help with the human resources that will be needed. Finally, it was a question of electricity and the cost of electricity. Yesterday we received a message from the Minister of Finance that they are following this day by day and are prepared to make efforts to help southern Sweden.
i-Kze4uCke99eminSzEyRv9S	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for understanding the industry. I know the Minister's background, and I understand that the Minister understands the issues. As I said, I have been out a lot in the tourism industry in Dalarna and have received a lot of information and have heard stories about how entrepreneurs have experienced this period. An entrepreneur says: We are drained as people. The entrepreneurs are responsible. They have built up their activities to provide security for those who work for them. It's as big as small entrepreneurs. The various subsidies that could be applied for have been seen by many as a bureaucratic process, and, as I said, it has taken time to obtain them. In the tourism industry there are many small companies that do not have the skills to enter the jungle of bureaucracy. Many people have had to lay off most of their staff, and it is now difficult to get new staff back in place. Drainage in the industry is very large. Someone says: It is hysterically difficult to find staff, and the industry is messed up. Nor do you feel that you have had real support from the government. Somewhere you want a hope, but it has been pressed on the off- and on-buttons a little too many times, as the Minister also mentioned. Although money has been borrowed from the bank, it is money that is to be paid back. The help has arrived, but it has come a little late. The industry is, as I said, messed up. The entrepreneurs in the visitor industry are creative. These are people who are used to thinking outside the box, and they try to get many different solutions. That is why these comments must be taken seriously, as the Minister suggests. They need help, and they need it now. They want nothing but to start their business again, but they feel that the conditions are not really up there. Among these, the supply of skills is one. They also experience the various taxes as a burden. I would therefore like to come back to the energy tax. Let me make a few comparisons. A tourism company currently pays 34.7 øre per kilowatt hour in electricity tax, while one manufacturing company pays only 0.5 øre per kilowatt hour. In 2018, the basic industry, i.e. the manufacturing industry, employed around 177 000 people, which represents approximately 3.5 per cent of the total number of jobs in the whole economy, to see it in a wider context. Unfortunately, the tourism industry does not count as a basic industry for tax purposes. But I have read on some website that the minister's representative actually said that the tourism industry is a new basic industry for Sweden. On SKR's website it says that tourism today is one of Sweden's basic industries. It is stated that there are 208 000 employees in the basic industries, which is considerably more than in the manufacturing industry. Shouldn't the tourism industry have the same electricity tax as the manufacturing industry? Is the Minister willing to work for a lower electricity tax for such an important tourism industry?
i-7ohj3MHj5xmHEnMYnoWmZt	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answers! Manning, deferral and electricity are three important issues. There will soon be a strategy entitled A country to visit. It aims to develop a strategy for the tourism industry to facilitate and strengthen it. It was produced before the pandemic, so we have a completely different situation now. It is, however, an export and job engine for the whole country. It also includes, as I see it, vineyards and the opportunity to go to Sweden, buy a wine package and get around. It is a great opportunity for rural areas, and there is much to learn about it from other countries in Europe. I hope that the strategy will be put in place and will benefit the rural areas and the tourism industry. It would also attract people internationally. It's supposed to. Some who stand out are the ice hotel up in Jukkasjärv in and Esrange, which can also be a fantastic visitor center. We also have cycling, nature, culture and so on. These people are supposed to get to the country. I therefore hope that all the different modes of transport will be included in this and that we see technology as an opportunity. I can see that we have electric flights within the country so that these nodes can really be linked together. I had a debate on this with the Minister for Infrastructure the other week. I really hope this happens. But I am a little concerned if the Green Party will have a say in the future. I hope they don't. I would like to hear the Government say something more about vineyards and that we should have an infrastructure that also works for the tourism industry.
i-N6ba3A5fXiZ769FT3qtAeD	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the follow-up questions! I usually describe the Ministry of Industry as a crossroads in the Government Office, because we have to get into almost all the questions. Now many other ministers were raised here, and I must be a little careful that I do not speak for the entire Government Office and all the departments. You may ask questions to those who have the right answers to them. But let me give you a general answer. When it comes to seeing the tourism industry as a basic industry, I share the image of my predecessor. We must not forget that before the pandemic struck, the growth rate in the tourism industry and tourism worldwide was the fastest among all sectors. This provides jobs in places that would otherwise have had difficulties with employment. I myself have been visiting the fantastic cooperation in economic policy within the tourism industry on the High Coast. Companies, hotels and restaurants have come together to make a more attractive offer to those travelling. B ara by offering each other's hotel capacity and opening up various sights for tourists – from Box Distillery and Hernö Gin – over 1,200 permanent jobs were created through the High Coast project. It's a fantastic development. Every summer even two ferries came from Stockholm and stayed in Härnösand to visit the High Coast project. This is nutrition policy at its very best. I also think that we need to look at this as a basic industry in view of the second issue that you raised. If we are to attract people to learn and want to work in the sector in the future, we need to raise the status of work in the sector so that they do not choose all the other educational opportunities in upper secondary school, college or university. There must be a career opportunity for those who enter this sector. You have to be able to feel that you are developing in your work. We must have many new entrepreneurs who dare to create these companies. There is a great risk of opening up a business in the tourism industry. You don't know if it's berries. Many of those who try and do not succeed can be in debt for the rest of their lives because of a failed start. It is therefore important that society, the state and the authorities help companies to get off to a good start. Here we have a lot to learn and develop in the coming years. I share Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson's view that there is a huge potential on the sights that are still unknown to the vast majority. I also share the view that we must have easily accessible communications throughout Sweden if this is to have an opportunity. During the pandemic we saw a fantastic development of the concepts hemester and symester, as the industry wants to call it. Completely new groups in Sweden joined the Swedish tourism industry. During the summer months it was open, it grew explosively. The fact that a lot of Swedes used the tourism industry was in much of what saved the industry. My hope as Minister of Economic Affairs is that we will be able to continue to svemestra and hemestra. It is good for the climate, and it is good for getting a larger tourism industry in Sweden in the future. I have already answered the tax questions. I stress once again that Minister of Finance Mikael Damberg said at a press conference yesterday that he will follow developments in terms of energy prices and other things related to Russia and the war in Ukraine. We follow the developments every day and will return if necessary.
i-EAqSyx1aYTjNooxj6NWfnY	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the debate. I really appreciate it. This is an industry, as the Minister said, where many of us have begun. Somewhere we've been trained. Maybe we've worked in the kitchen at Domus and learned the business from there. Then we've evolved. Most of the time, it's just like that. Work in this business may have a shorter period, and then you go on somewhere else. But it doesn't always have to be that way. Last week I was at Högfjällshotellet in Sälen. There a person I talked to told me that he started as a sandwich nisse, and today he was a hotel manager. That's what the industry does, because the industry is good at this with skills provision. If people enter the business, they have the opportunity to become a hotel manager through education. I also heard a comment that there are more applicants for Sweden's master chef on TV than there are chefs to get to the restaurant industry. So the chefs are obviously out there somewhere. And we get to help each other in different ways. I have my background in the school world. But we can tell you early that this is an industry where you can have a longer career and not just a temporary job before you go on to study. It is also an important industry, as the Minister has said, for integration and for bringing people into a first job. You can actually have a first job in this business. I thank you for this debate and I hope and believe that the Minister really means what he says about him following the industry and developments in order to ensure a good restart. Then we have to help each other to have an interactive cooperation with the municipalities regarding, for example, fees in the industry.
i-BYvKGj2ADHbeY3aVaR5XQF	Madam President, I would like I thank Ann-Britt Ann-Britt and AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson for a very good discussion. I must admit that I also have a short summer background at Kosta inn in the early 1980s. It was a very good way to learn working hours, to learn to have structure during the day and to make some money of your own. It was a good step into working life. As Minister of Economic Affairs, I will also try to underline that. It was no coincidence that the first visit I made as Minister of Economic Affairs was to open a Max restaurant in Norrtälje. Not least the fast food chains are a fantastic integration engine. There are very competent staff among young people there who would not otherwise have got a job in the Swedish labour market. They have a structure of life and a income to live on, which attracts more than engaging in bad things in life. I therefore fully share the view that this is a fantastic integration engine. I can also welcome you by saying that I was contacted by the entire tourism industry in Sälen a few weeks ago, and we have a scheduled meeting where they want to tell us about their incredibly offensive future plans for the entire Sälen area. We welcome that. It's a fantastically close destination. Sälen attracts people not only from Sweden but from all over Europe. They want to talk to me about that, and I know pretty much what they want us to deliver from the state. And we're gonna do the best we can. We have a good collaboration and a good collaboration council with the industry, and we meet regularly to see how we can continue to further develop an important basic industry for Sweden in the future.
i-6xH6XDKZSJpoU1j3agY4JY	Madam President, I would like Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm has asked me when I will review the long-term permit processes for test mining and environmental permits so that Sweden becomes a strong mining nation again. Swedish mining and mineral industries are of great importance to Sweden as a country, in the regional and local perspective and beyond Sweden's borders. It is about jobs, welfare and mining of minerals and metals that are important for the green transition. Among other things, Sweden produced approximately 93 percent of all iron ore, 34 percent of all zinc, 3 3% of all lead, 19 percent of all gold and 11 percent of all copper in the EU 2020. Sve r ige also has a strong exploration potential for innovation critical minerals and metals such as graphite, rare earth metals, lithium, cobalt, vanadium, tungsten and tellury. It is important for the government that Sweden has modern and effective permit processes. The licensing processes in the mining and mineral sector are regulated in both the Environmental Code and the Mineral Act (1991:45). The Government has appointed the Environmental Assessment Report (M 2020:06) with the mandate to propose measures to achieve a more modern and effective environmental compliance test. The investigation will present its report in May 2022. In addition, the Government has established an investigation into trial processes and regulations for the sustainable supply of innovation critical metals and minerals (N 2021:01). The study will analyse and propose changes to review processes and regulations so that better account can be taken of both a project's local environmental impact and its societal benefits, such as reduced global climate impact, and that a larger proportion of the value generated by the mining and minerals industry can benefit the whole country. The report will be submitted by the end of October 2022. In December 2021, the Government commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the County Administrative Boards, in consultation with the Swedish Court of Justice, to conduct a preliminary study aimed at reviewing the conditions for developing a joint government guidance for the environmental permit review and the environmental assessment process. The assignment shall be presented by 30 June 2022. The Government has also commissioned the county boards in September 2021 to develop methods and collaborations that promote an effective consultation process with the support of the Swedish Agency for Innovation Systems, Vinnova. The quality of the consultation process is a prerequisite for an efficient and well-functioning permit process and part of the purpose of environmental assessment. By 31 December 2023 at the latest, the mission shall be closed. Increasing recycling and strengthening the circular economy are important efforts made, inter alia, within the framework of the Government's circular economy strategy and action plan. The government will continue to support the development of sustainable value chains from raw material to input or end product. In such work, Sweden's mining and mineral industry and the mining cluster as a whole are key players. Sweden is at the forefront of climate change, thanks to major green investments and a clear political direction. We intend to push for an accelerated climate change transition and for our country to take its share of the responsibility for reducing emissions. This is made possible by good access to essential and innovation-critical metals and minerals. For Sweden, this means an opportunity to contribute with metals and minerals that are produced in a more sustainable, environmentally friendly and socially responsible way than in the outside world. Sweden will continue to develop the mining industry and at the same time be a leading country in the mineral industry in terms of sustainable development.
i-LjNKKH2qjQF1CohqaRfiSL	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Industry for a very comprehensive answer. I know that on a number of occasions the Minister for Economic Affairs has expressed his love for mines. Therefore, I cannot resist discussing and debating the mining industry. It is a large and important basic industry, especially in the area I come from, Västerbotten, where we have mines and in our neighbouring county Norrbotten. We know that we live in an uncertain world, and no one knows how and when it will end. Therefore, it is of great importance that we do everything we can to become self-sufficient in the areas where we have the opportunity. The mining industry is one of the industries that has built our country big. We have mined ore and produced metals for more than a thousand years. At most we had 3,000 active mines in Sweden. Today there are 12 mines in production in Sweden. They're all metal mines. Never before in the 21st century has there been so little interest in searching for metals and minerals in Sweden. 109 applications for mining exploration were received, and this is a clear downward trend. Part of the explanation is, of course, the ongoing coronapndemine. The pandemic has made it harder for foreign prospectors to come here, and it has also made it difficult for them to get equipment here. Another explanation is the strong mining debate that has been going on in our society for at least ten years. Maria Sunér Fleming is CEO of the mining-related industry organisation Svemin. She also sees the coronapndemine as a reason for the large decline in the number of applications for exploration. But there are explanations that are far more serious. The long processing times for permit testing and the complicated regulations surrounding the mining industry in Sweden make countries look in the direction where it is much easier to obtain a permit and start test mining. Much of the investment capital that will flow into research permits and research work is foreign. The image of Sweden as a major mining nation is incredibly important. Sweden, like the rest of the world, is dependent on innovation-critical metals and minerals if Sweden is to reach its goal of becoming fossil-free by 2030. In order to simplify matters for foreign and also Swedish companies, the Bergsstatet could be given a clearer overall responsibility, a one-way in to simplify the regulations and aid assessments of test breaks. One of the challenges is the many interests that stand against each other. What are we supposed to do, Minister of Enterprise, to speed up the regulatory simplifications?
i-ZE5wEnpZoqM2dzse7BTu2	Madam President, I would like I thank Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm for letting me talk about mines. It's amazing! Many have well raised their eyebrows for such a clear statement for one of the industries in Sweden, but I think that the very idea that we can mine minerals in our mountains, refine them and export a finished product to a country that creates jobs here at home, that creates environmental benefits for the whole world and can be the main prerequisite for us to manage the climate transition to 2045, is like a Kinder egg; we can get the nutrition to work so well. The first day we had to start traveling after the last covid extinguishing, I went to Garpenberg and looked at Boliden's mine. It is now considered one of the most productive deep mines in the world. I agree that we easily get a little blind on the issue of the permits – I will come back to that issue later – but it is in no way the case that Sweden has become less significant as a mining nation in recent decades. The companies that exist, big giants, deliver more than ever and have gone well financially and created many new jobs. This applies not least to Boliden and LKAB, which are doing very well. The companies are exploring a lot, and they have found new deposits in Norrbotten and Västerbotten. I can say that we are soon going from 12 to 13 mines because it is now opening a small new gold mine in Västerbotten during the year. It's moving in the right direction. So to the point, Madam President. We look at how to speed up the processes, and we await the investigation at the end of May. It is important to look at the social benefits of environmental testing, and it is also about critical minerals. We are now having a discussion with the European Union. Last week I met my colleagues from other countries at a meeting in Brussels. They are waiting for us to do this in Sweden. We have the minerals they need to make their transition. There are large deposits of not least copper and nickel in Sweden. There are also some applications to open a new mine that is currently in court and hopefully falls in the right direction so that we can speed up the expansion of more mines. There are many who are coming forward, after all, to trial. For example, on April 1st, a new company will open in Luleå, which will make graphite for car batteries. It is an activity that so far takes place on trials in Norrbotten. There is a lot going on, and we are going to do everything we can with legislative and regulatory changes to make things easier and faster. At the same time, we shall continue to be strict with regard to environmental testing. Much of the debate has been about this. The mines mentioned by Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm were often associated with major environmental problems. There are still many mining sites in Sweden that have remaining environmental problems. I want an environmental test based on strict environmental legislation, but which is still effective so that the results of an application are more predictable. You should not first invest 80 – 100 million in exploration and then wait eight to ten years before you get a no. It will certainly not attract new investors to come to our country. It should be predictable, and you should know more quickly whether it will be a yes or a no. Just as Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm was concerned, we must also strike a balance with the legislation on national interest.
i-5bzokfbZjE7B4TPEokMvoL	Madam President, I would like One of the challenges, Minister, is that there are many interests that stand against each other. If one organisation does not appeal, it is the other organisation that appeals. This means that the licensing processes and environmental tests are delayed, and no money comes into the investment companies, but it is just expenditure. The company Fäbodliden is located in my hometown Lycksele and breaks gold. They've been doing seven years with all the applications. Each time they have received the application back with the invitation to do a little more. They can't know what to do, but they're gonna do a little more. I am pleased that the Minister for Economic Affairs takes this issue very seriously and that the Minister for Economic Affairs sees all the opportunities available to increase the mining industry in Sweden. I am also pleased that investigations are being set up, and hopefully they will improve the entire mining industry. But when there are more stakeholders than mines in the mining industry, we will land in module 22. There are environmentalists and indigenous peoples who do not think mining belongs in our nature at all. According to all the rules of art, all the trials are appealed, which makes mining impossible. As the Minister for Economic Affairs says, a large proportion of the ore exported is broken in Sweden. Today is a good thing. A range of innovation-critical metals, such as lithium and cobalt, needed to produce batteries, part of our quest for a fossil-free world, are found in our bedrock – but they are not broken. Instead, we buy them from China and Congo-Kinshasa where the working environment is significantly worse than what we can offer in Sweden. We are losing jobs and income. If we are to achieve our goals, we must start breaking even those metals and also have a much greater recycling of the metals in order to cope with the transition to fossil-free 2030. The minister lists a number of assignments that have been appointed, but we would have done so 10 to 15 years ago. I cannot accuse the Minister of that – unfortunately – but I have to raise the issue. Sweden has already fallen on Fraser's ranking list of attractive mining nations. Before all these assignments are completed, Sweden has been overtaken by even more countries. We have to do something now, Minister.
i-M4GWrMurFjDdsm5brhYfZz	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Rahm, Björnsdotter, for the follow-up question. Yes, it's a whole world waiting for us to do this. These minerals are not everywhere, so the world is waiting for us to take up the mineral reserve that we actually know is here in Sweden. I counted at the beginning of my answer the minerals that we know there are large deposits of in Sweden. I can't help but tell you about the amazing things that are happening in LKAB's new venture Reemap, which will open in Luleå in a few years' time. You should simply transport the flows that already go through LKAB's iron ore mines down to Luleå and take out the other minerals in addition to iron ore in the flows. Last week I was able to tell my European colleagues – and it was probably news to them too – that in these flows there are forecast 30% of Europe's need for rare earth metals, including 100% of Europe's need for something called constant magnets. This is important not least for the car industry. We also have the whole of Sweden's need for plaster and the whole of Sweden's need for graphite in the slag heap or rather the flow that will end up in the slag heap. There will be a new type of circular mine where we can use the flows that are already and extract new minerals. Of course, we will also ensure that other minerals needed for the green conversion begin to be mined in Sweden. As I said earlier, there are quite a few mines on their way, and that is gratifying. There will be some new mines in the near future. At the beginning of the year, Kaunis Iron was granted permission to continue for his mine in Pajala. There you can see how much a mine can mean to the district. It is up to 20 percent of those living in Pajala who now have a job directly or indirectly because Kaunis Iron has opened outside Pajala. And more decisions about mines come in the near future. There is such a debate that Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm raises. There are other interests, and environmental involvement around mines is one of the areas that has been conflict-filled. That is why it is important for the balance that I talked about earlier to have the world's hardest environmental testing while we have an effective examination of the matter until a mining permit is granted. Just as Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm brings up here, it is a huge cost from test drilling until a finished condition. Perhaps it is about 80, 90, 100 million in investments, so the companies that make them must have an enormous amount of resources. That is also one of the reasons why fewer companies are applying today. There was a change in the mineral law in Sweden in the 90's. Before that, it was SGU, that is, the state, that carried out an investigation into the mineral, and then companies had to bid on it. Today we are doing the opposite. It is the companies that are prospecting, and then they seek permission. This may have meant that over time we have got fewer but slightly stronger companies seeking permission. We have a common understanding that we will open new mines and take up these minerals, because only today is the export value, as has been said, over SEK 150 billion. This creates a lot of jobs where it would otherwise have been difficult to find employment, so I do not take a debate about the importance of mines. I think that's as much as Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm.
i-62Gy9d55Aj1vWZzpp8JU4z	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister very much. I apologise for smiling, but I must say that I am so glad that we agree on this. I feel that we have the same views on how to push this issue forward. We just have to hurry. We can't wait. Then we will be surrounded by all other countries, where we will turn our eyes to start new mines. We sit on so many minerals of our own, but we break them that said not. It is, as the Minister says, because we have too complicated rules and lengthy decision-making processes and because the environmental test is so strong and rigid. I agree that the environmental test should be strong, because we should be careful of our environment. But I go back to the question of what the Minister intends to do to speed up the processes so that we can once again become the strong mining nation that we have been before and top Fraser's list again. It is one of my big cane horses – that we will be the leading mining nation again.
i-483g6PzPJk6Zw7HhFaNLCV	Madam President, I would like I thank Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm for the opportunity to talk about a favourite subject in Parliament. As Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm points out, it is time to move from words to actions. My predecessor took these four initiatives for that very reason. We must change so that it becomes easier to apply for permits and open mines in Sweden. Sweden has a long tradition as a mining nation. The Garpenberg mine, for example, has existed for 2,400 years. It is one of the oldest and today one of the most productive mines in the world. We have great knowledge about mining minerals in Sweden – and just as Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm also points out, we in Sweden can do so with good working conditions and a good working environment, unlike in many of the countries that we in Europe buy these minerals from today. As I said before, the European Union is very aware of this. As far as rare earths are concerned, the EU is currently 97 - 99% dependent on imports from Chinese-controlled mines in the world. We know that there are major problems with child labour, especially in Congo, but also forced labour in the mining industry in China. It is therefore urgent to make this development. The whole of Europe is waiting for Sweden to take these steps, so I feel the pressure not only from Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm but also from the EU to solve these problems as soon as possible.
i-9X8wyMSGRxeCcMXpqYMKgW	Madam President, I would like David Lång has asked the Minister for Finance if the government intends to initiate a census so that we can get correct statistics on how many and who are in Sweden. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The framework for Statistics Sweden's population statistics and population and housing census has long been register-based in Sweden and is based on data mainly from the Swedish Tax Agency's population register database. The change made at the end of the 1990s meant that a form-based system was abandoned in favour of a more efficient and less costly register-based system that also became simpler for the population and gave the opportunity for better and more up-to-date statistics. The data in population censuses and population statistics shall be accurate and consistent with reality. I share the interpellier's view of the importance of order and order in our systems. The government has taken several steps to improve population records. Among other things, the Swedish Tax Agency's funding has been increased and the agency has been given more tools to detect, investigate and correct errors. The Government Office is now preparing proposals from one of the interpellantes mentioned State investigation which has been tasked with proposing measures to further reduce the presence of incorrect information in the population register. In addition, the Swedish Tax Agency, in collaboration with a number of voluntary municipalities, has been tasked with setting up a pilot project to investigate the extent of the problem of incorrect population records and to develop methods and working methods to correct errors.
i-9YUmi4D656Hp6PfrF3zpD8	In response to David Lång's question, I can tell you that Sweden, like the other Member States of the European Union, has an obligation to carry out a so-called Census every ten years, which corresponds to a population and housing census. The Central Statistical Office is the authority responsible for carrying out this census in Sweden. The next Census will be implemented with the reference year et 2021, and for Sweden this census is based on registers, like the previous Census 2011. The population census and population statistics thus depend on the register information that the government and the relevant authorities systematically work to improve.
i-95nMBumA9umgxfdSkgAriv	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Civil Affairs, for your answer. For a fairly long period of time, from 1860 to 1990, censuses were made in Sweden every ten years and on a number of other occasions in between. Since 1990, no traditional censuses have been made, but an apartment register has been established to show exactly who lives in exactly which dwelling. It has then been reasoned that censuses in the traditional sense are no longer needed because it is just to check the records to find out who lives where. This is what is a little bit at the heart of this interpellation: the registers are not correct. There is information from one authority after another that these records are incorrect. Then you can ask yourself how useful they are when making censuses. Sweden's welfare system is based on the authorities knowing who lives in Sweden and where they live. Unfortunately, however, the Swedish systems are based entirely on trust; the authorities more or less blindly rely on everyone to provide accurate data. This works half well in a Swedish Sweden, but in a Sweden with mass immigration it does not work at all, as has been shown. In connection with the migration of asylum in recent decades, the population register error has increased apace, and the authorities no longer have control over who resides in Sweden, where they live or what they do here. According to an investigation by the Swedish Tax Agency, 30 to 50 per cent of asylum seekers have different identities registered with the Finnish Immigration Service and the Swedish Tax Agency. This has consequences for welfare systems. Foreign beneficiaries can sign out grants in several different names and regardless of whether they live in Sweden or not. One of the more absurd examples was when the Iraqi Minister of Defence Najah al-al-Shammari was suspected of gross breach of the Social Insurance Fund because he and his wife had received child and housing allowance even though they had been living abroad for several years, that is, not in Sweden. In Sweden he had also registered under another name, Najah al-Adeli-Adeli. On top of that, the charges against him were dropped. Another example of a foreigner who had several identities registered is Rakhmat Akilov, who carried out the terrorist attack on Drottninggatan in Stockholm. He too had the opportunity to sign out grants in several different names. According to the Delegation for correct payments, SEK 18 billion per year is wrongly paid out, and there is reason to suspect even greater errors than that. In addition, the Swedish Tax Agency estimates that there are some 200 000 people with a population register error, but admits that the number of darkness can be very large – which it should be because 30 – 50 per cent of asylum seekers state the wrong identity or several different identities. With regard to the response from the Minister for Civil Affairs that a Census, a census, should be carried out using these records, even though they are clearly wrong, I wonder: does the Minister for Civil Affairs seriously mean that this should correspond to a proper census, which we can rely on and from which we can have any real benefit?
i-9kiw88dFYyq7Mz5TZX1bxS	Madam President, I would like I believe that the traditional form-based census that we have had in Sweden has been both ineffective and not accurate. The Swedish Tax Agency has estimated that there are approximately 200 000 individuals with a population register error. The most common error is that people have registered themselves to the wrong address. The Government has therefore since 2018 required the Swedish Tax Agency to report on the size of the errors in the population accounts and to develop methods for measuring the error. As I said, the biggest error in population records is that people are written at a different address from the one where they actually live – about 117 000 individuals. The least common error type applies, according to the same estimate, to people who are not registered in Sweden although they should be; it is about 12 000 people. We need to improve and deepen our knowledge of the errors in population accounts, and we are, of course, following these developments. This is also why Sweden and the government have commissioned the Swedish Tax Agency to do a number of things in this area. Among other things, a pilot project is carried out with a number of voluntary municipalities, which together with the Swedish Tax Agency conducts in-depth analyses of population records in order to correct the problems that exist. This is a much more accurate method – to identify the areas where this problem exists – than to use a form-based system to knock door-to-door throughout Sweden, among the entire population of Sweden, to try to overcome the population register error, which includes 200,000 individuals. Significantly more accurate, it is just working strategically towards these pilot municipalities.
i-GuJbCgLjqgjCtu7HbxGWX1	Madam President, I would like On the basis of the answer I received and which was somewhat repeated by the Minister for Civil Affairs, it feels a little bit like one does not intend to deal with the problems. The Minister of Civil Affairs says that the Swedish Tax Agency has received increased funding to detect, investigate and correct errors. Proposals from a government public investigation are being investigated and a pilot project has been launched. The results of the pilot project will be very interesting to take part in. But it feels a little bit like you intend to deal with the problems continuously rather than solve them. We can go into the problems that exist. It is common for those who receive grants to wrongly indicate an address in Sweden even though they live abroad without the authorities' knowledge. The extent of this problem is certainly not known – control has so far been too poor. It has also become common knowledge that over a hundred people can have the same address, which indicates that the authorities are being misled for some reason. So there is every reason to assume that under the surface there is widespread abuse of the transfer systems and various forms of subsidies. The lack of control also facilitates shady activities in general, including the sale of incorrect population register addresses, which can indirectly pave the way for more serious crime, and the current coordination number system, which has also been identified as having obvious shortcomings. This was debated a great deal even before the pandemic broke out. So there are obviously major gaps in the system, which are exploited by criminal networks, which not only leads to abuse of the transfer systems, but also means that we have people in the country who do not have the right to be here or who have entered the country illegally or commit crimes or are used as a undeclared labour force. It is not consistent with the general legal awareness that this type of fraud can continue. Further examples include the thousands of Afghan men who lack asylum reasons but are still allowed to stay in Sweden provided that they complete upper secondary school education and then get a job. But for them to complete their schooling, they had to be written somewhere, preferably near the school they were going to attend. Many of these had to buy or otherwise acquire illegal population register addresses because there was no housing in the right place. It can then be defined as that they are actually here illegally and should never have been allowed to stay from the beginning, even with the rules that the government set up, in cooperation with the Center Party, among other things, I would like to remember. All these examples show that a new census is needed, with the main focus on extensive internal immigration control, the registration of biometric data for non-citizens in Sweden and the cooperation of authorities to carry out physical checks in areas where errors can be assumed or suspected. And if we're to be honest, it's where the foreigners are that the most serious mistakes are. One of the advantages of making a more thorough census instead of just a register run would also be that we could access those who are illegally staying in Sweden. However, it does not seem that the government intends to take the necessary steps to address these problems. You kind of want to keep patching and cooking. Why do you not want to solve the problems once and for all? Why just keep dealing with them indefinitely, so to speak?
i-J8unHUijLYbSoXYkz9LGZD	Madam President, I would like We intend to deal with the misstatement of the population register and to get the system of censuses in order and order. Then let me tell you about some things that the government has actually done since 2018. These are, therefore, recent measures. We've re-introduced the civil record crime. We have commissioned the Swedish Tax Agency to carry out extended inspection visits. We've been instructed to de-register false identities. There is intense work going on with it. We have commissioned the Swedish Tax Agency and authorities to inform the Swedish Tax Agency if they suspect errors in the registration of persons. We have also given increased resources to the Swedish Tax Agency to work with order and order in the population register. There has been an investigation, which the interpeller mentions in his interpellation. That investigation has been out for a referral, and the government is now preparing the proposals contained in the investigation. The investigation has discussed biometric data, among other things. We also have the pilot project in progress at the Swedish Tax Agency. This is a number of measures that are much more accurate and effective than knocking doors throughout Sweden to make a large national census. With the help of these various missions, the government is working intensively to get order and order in the population records. That is our priority, and that is our long-term work.
i-JCvsa9re61mwLf3Pz8J4Fv	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. The answer that came now certainly sounded promising. However, I did not understand exactly what it was like with the biometric data, if this were to be mandatory for new arrivals, not least, thereby eliminating the possibility of living with more than one identity and with the wrong identity in Sweden. I would like to stress that I and my party have never proposed knocking on doors throughout Sweden. Of course, there are some areas and certain groups, especially those that have come to Sweden in recent years or perhaps even decades, where the biggest errors are to be found. This is probably also the case for the most people who receive grants that should not receive it – either because they are not in Sweden or for some other reason. But, as I said, the Swedish Democrats have been making very concrete demands for at least a few years. What concerns biometric data is one of the most important, I would say. Until we can all see some concrete result from what the Secretary of State is now saying, I maintain that a thorough and outreach census, including the recording of biometric data, would be needed. It is precisely in the case of the newly immigrated part of the population that the greatest effort needs to be made.
i-TxzkWwdbNqvzizNhAJkYXK	Madam President, I would like As I have mentioned in my speeches, a number of assignments are under way by the Swedish Tax Agency to get order and order in the population register system. It's important. That is an important priority. The question is: How do you make it most effective? How do we get the best order of records – in the most effective way and in the most accurate way? I am convinced that these missions and these one-off actions will lead to results. The proposal to carry out a different type of census in order to establish individual identities would first need to be further analysed. We need to think about who's gonna do the job? How? How much is it? What results can be expected? The central point of our systems must be to overcome the problems pointed out by the interpeller and, in my view, to do so by strengthening the quality of public records. As I said: the government has taken a number of measures to this end, and it is a work that will continue and that is going on.
i-594r3qAYsrLpebj4cJQVQo	Madam President, I would like On the day of the European Council, we all woke up to the news that we have war in Europe. Russia had invaded its neighbor Ukraine a. Russia chose violence over dial og. The judgment of history will fall heavily upon the Russian government. The EU's response was both rapid and powerful. In less than 20 minutes, the European Council was able to give the green light to the most intervening package of sanctions that the Union has ever decided on. These measures are aimed, inter alia, at the financial, energy and transport sectors. We are also stopping exports of important technology and introducing further listing of people who are no longer welcome in Europe and who, moreover, have their assets frozen. The meeting also discussed listing President Putin and Minister for Foreign Affairs Lavrov, on which EU Member States could agree as early as the next day. We also decided to immediately begin preparations for further sanctions packages to include Belarus. We have worked on this since the meeting. Madam President, I would like There was also agreement to continue jointly supporting Ukraine's resilience. In the discussions, I pushed for further action within the European Peace Facility. On Sunday, foreign ministers were able to agree on a unique and comprehensive support to Ukraine in the form of financing for supplies of defence equipment. Overall, the meeting and further work over the next few days gave a very strong and determined response to Russia's totally unacceptable and illegal actions. Madam President, I would like During part of the meeting, Ukrainian President Zelenskyj took part in the video link from a bunker or basement in Kiev. He gave a bleak picture of the developments that it looked like on Thursday. He also described that he himself was at the top of the Russian list of targets. At the end of the conversation, President Zelenskyj said goodbye: "Let's see if we see each other again." The feeling in the room when the connection with Kiev and President Zelenskyj were broken, I am sure that all present will take with them for the rest of their lives. Madam President, I would like Security throughout Europe will be affected and there will be consequences that we need to deal with for a long time to come. This is not just Ukraine's war and a war in the middle of Europe. Russia's invasion of Ukraine affects security throughout Europe. It threatens the European security regime and essentially democratic states' right to decide for themselves on their future. That is why it is essential that we, in Sweden, in the EU and with our partners around the world, stick to that line. The measures and sanctions agreed quickly by the EU are important, and that is a strength. But we shall continue to mark in words but, of course, also in action that Russia must withdraw its troops from Ukraine and that those responsible, President Putin and the Russian leadership, will be held accountable.
i-FBskvVEZ5d3nNprCCTmk1Y	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. Sweden and the EU must intensify pressure on the Putin regime. Sanctions are good, but we can and should do more. Ukraine deserves our support. When Europe's security and stability are at stake, it is undeniably in our interest to support Ukraine in their struggle to choose their own path. Humanitarian aid is important. But we must also give Ukrainians the opportunity to defend themselves. It would have been nice if the Prime Minister had taken the line from the outset that the Moderates and a majority in the EU Council expressed on sending defensive weapons to Ukraine. But I welcome the fact that the government has now agreed with our position. That's good. The Prime Minister says here that she pushed that point. I would like to ask, as the Prime Minister also did, about defensive weapons at the meeting. Madam President, I would like Ukraine is now under attack because it wants to get closer to us and our cooperation. It is probably difficult for us to understand their strong will and desperate desire to get closer to the Union that we in Sweden almost see as self-evident. We see that the Ukrainians do not give up the fight, even when their country is invaded and people are put to death. Ukraine has also explicitly requested and applied to become a candidate country. Then we cannot say that timing is not the best. In fact, the timing is that with such a message the EU is now clearly showing Putin that it has a completely opposite effect to what he had in mind. I wonder whether this issue of EU membership was discussed at the summit and what the Prime Minister's view is.
i-4FNaZr5hQJfQZ1hWqCiowL	Madam President, I would like Of course, I pursued what we agreed on in the European Council and the mandate that I was given with regard to. We wanted to strengthen the European Peace Facility and were prepared for all forms of support through it. Without revealing too much, I can say that Sweden was one of the few countries that pushed that particular issue. I am very pleased that we were then able to get support so quickly. We were a frontrunner on this issue, and I am pleased that we were then able to have such broad support for it so that we could decide on very extensive support as quickly as we did on Sunday through the European Peace Facility. With regard to Ukraine as a member of the EU, Sweden has worked for a long time with Ukraine to support and expand its institutions in such a way that Ukraine will also be able to meet the criteria for EU membership. There, Sweden is the EU's second largest donor. An important part of our contribution goes precisely to institution building, which will be able to lead forward and lead closer to EU membership. Having said that, we have a certain number of criteria for becoming a member of the European Union. They are there, of course, even at this point.
i-9rgp6vPrZfUn62oqdYd26S	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister. I know the criteria; I only asked whether the question was discussed at the time and whether the Prime Minister is prepared today to give such an answer to such an application. I would like to highlight another part of this. The EU is sometimes criticised for taking a long time to make decisions, and the Prime Minister said in his re-report that this was quick. I agree with that. We know, of course, that there have been different views on different parts of the sanctions, but I still think that the European Union – as the Prime Minister says – could show here that Europe stood up to the Putin regime and to Ukraine. It shows that we need Europe and that we are strong when we work together. However, as I said, more needs to be done, and I wonder whether the Prime Minister will be a driver in the next part as well as in what way the Prime Minister intends to use the European Peace Facility to direct further support to Ukraine.
i-X2eBjRkU7txXYkdg9XMu23	Madam President, I would like Excuse me, I missed the question of whether EU membership came up. I cannot recall that question was raised. It was not a big issue that was discussed, and I do not think any country raised it. So it was not a big question during that discussion. From the Swedish side, we are pushing for more sanctions, and Hans Dahlgren has also been able to go out and tell us that we want to see more oligarchs listed and that they will have their assets in Europe frozen. We would also like to see additional things being done, for example, with regard to sports exchanges, and of course we are looking at additional products. Now we have just taken a decision on the European Peace Facility. I believe that the question was whether we should come up with further initiatives within it, and from the Swedish side we exclude nothing at this stage. Among other things, if there is a more prolonged war, there may be every reason to return there.
i-Vvf84X8m2KEmKAZx8rjdMB	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for the important report and particularly welcome the clear message on this issue. As is well known, the situation is extremely serious right now, and it should not have escaped anyone that this has been waiting for a long time. The escalation we have seen has shown quite obvious preparations for war on the part of Russia. We know, Madam President, that Russia is unreliable. We know, Madam President, that Russia absolutely lacks respect for democracy and human rights as well as international law. The only thing that matters in Putin's Russia is its own so-called sphere of influence, and it is also a sphere of interest that is steadily expanding. In view of this, it is somewhat strange that the Prime Minister did not mention the issue of arms exports in his re-report. But that is certainly not so strange in fact, given that the Social Democrats have been against these arms exports both in the European Parliament and in the Swedish Parliament. After all, it is weapons that actually stop Putin, not sanctions – although sanctions are of course also good to use. Fast decisions at this point can be crucial to saving lives. How is it that Sweden, despite the obvious signs we have seen, is always the last with important decisions like that on arms exports?
i-Pc8QsSoBaRU5RH97UkXDHH	Madam President, I would like In times of crisis, I think it is important to stick to the correct facts. I always think it is important, but it is perhaps particularly important in crisis situations when much misinformation is spread. That Sweden would be the last country to decide on arms exports, for example, reasonably knows Markus Wiechel is an incorrect claim. It is serious if you as a Member of Parliament do not have correct information, but it is even more serious if you try to disseminate incorrect information. Markus Wiechel finds it strange that I did not mention this, but I said in my speech that I, as a frontrunner, was pushing for further action within the European Peace Facility, as it were. That includes weapons for Ukraine. Then I did not tell you about the Swedish decisions, because this is a re-report from the European Council. The Swedish, national decisions were not part of what we discussed or decided on in the European Council.
i-4jVAXNTWsp3H6viYvj3trr	Madam President, I would like Of course, I think it is positive that the Prime Minister is careful with the facts and so on. Of course, different concepts can be interpreted literally or not, but the fact remains that the Social Democratic Government has acted slowly several times now. It is something that has characterised this government, and it also concerns the issue of arms exports. In fact, it is the Swedish Democrats, together with the right-wing opposition in Sweden, who have pushed the government forward on the issue of arms exports. This is an extremely important issue. If the government had responded to Ukraine's appeal from the outset, it would have been in a much better position than today. Instead, it only began after the large-scale invasion to see if it would be possible to investigate whether things could be sent to Ukraine and so on – and then it was argued a little confused that exports could conflict with current rules. That's not true. Once again, we see that the Social Democratic government is slow.
i-4pPiEFQfv7oGUu5sHaWABY	Madam President, I would like It is good that Markus Wiechel thinks it is important that I use the correct facts. My point was that it might be a good idea for Markus Wiechel to use the correct facts. As Prime Minister of Sweden, I think it would be sad if, in a crisis situation, we had Members of Parliament who were spreading misinformation. Then I am well aware that it is entirely up to Members of Parliament to say and think what they want; we live in a democracy. You can also spread lies from the speaker's chair here – it is free to do so – but as Prime Minister I can only say that I think it is inappropriate. In the last post were again incorrect facts. I have never said that it is contrary to Swedish legislation on arms exports, but I have said that it is a violation of practice.
i-WBFtmZH31bypEPQdiTu3zj	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the report from the meeting on Thursday evening, Prime Minister. It is five days since we woke up to Russia's invasion of its neighbour Ukraine, a country where the people want nothing more than to live in peace and freedom. Although it has not been long since the meeting, it feels like a huge amount has happened, and it is still difficult to take in and understand. We do not know what that will mean today. It depends on what we choose to do, how we do it and how far we are prepared to go to defend Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity – and by extension also Sweden's and other neighbouring countries' right to sovereignty. The situation is acute in Ukraine, and immediate humanitarian and military support is required. We and other countries are now sending food, protective equipment and weapons to defend themselves. Together with the European Union, we have now also imposed strong sanctions on both Russia and Belarus – more powerful than ever before, and that is a good thing. Many hundreds of thousands are now fleeing to safety while others are arming themselves to defend themselves and their country. A week ago, people went to work and wondered what to do for the weekend. We must now accept and help all those who have packed what they can carry and fled. All that has been done is good, but it will not be enough. What needs Ukraine has we must be sensitive to and prepared to meet, both for Ukraine's ability to stand up to a military invasion and for our security and thereby the ability to support Ukraine. We have agreed on these issues, which is an enormous strength and crucial. However, we see that both our sanctions and the counter-sanctions that will come may befall us. Has any assessment been made of how the sanctions will affect Sweden, and are we prepared to handle it?
i-66Pfs2v49pA5n79gBsRd5K	Madam President, I would like I thank Annika Qarlsson for the question, and I would also like to thank her for a very constructive approach on the part of the Center Party. The decisions we have been able to make here in the Swedish parliament have been helpful and have also been clear in their support for the government's policy. As regards the sanctions that are now being decided on, Sweden does not have much trade with Ukraine, so the assessment is that the direct impact on Sweden and the Swedish economy from the sanctions packages is deemed to be limited. But then, of course, it is about what answers come from Russia – what counter-sanctions Russia may decide on and, of course, what forms of cyber- or hybrid attacks can be directed against Sweden and other countries. It is, of course, important that we are prepared for this. Therefore, the Swedish Civil Protection Agency now has collaboration conferences with authorities to prepare for different eventualities and different scenarios. In addition, it is of course the case that people are fleeing the war, as Annika Qarlsson pointed out, and they should of course be able to get a sanctuary in Europe. It works in Poland and the neighbouring countries, but the Migration Agency is preparing for people to come to Sweden as well.
i-WWBJXiXBgUic1kHyGBsXXi	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. I think what we have seen for the first five days is just the beginning of a lot that will have to be answered and met up. When it starts to fade on the shelves of the grocery stores, it is about access to food as well as vulnerability and the possibility to help with field hospitals and the like to help with care in an emergency situation. There will be issues in further steps, such as sanctions and being able to face counter-sanctions from Russia. There will certainly also be requests for further action on the possibility of defence. In what way is there already work going on to be ready in the next step?
i-AobfBWMThJDz5CWAgwiJdZ	Madam President, I would like As soon as we finished the decision on Sunday, which was made at record speed, work on further support for Ukraine began. We are also pushing for further sanctions in the EU. This work is in full swing.
i-MC7zCYDpaNZJcVfAYHtZBM	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. Russia's war of aggression against Ukraine is an enormous crime that must be condemned in every way. Strong steps must be taken to get Russia to leave Ukraine. I want to make it clear to everyone that we in the Left Party are on Ukraine's side and that we have pushed for support for Ukraine and for strong sanctions against Russia. Among other things, we were the only party that believed that the Swedish government would push for all Russian activities to be shut down from Swift and for all trade in Russian oil and gas and uranium to cease. We need to use all the means we have to put an end to this war and to a free Ukraine. However, we must also be aware that several of the measures against Russia may also affect the civilian population. This does not mean that we should abstain; our actions must be so strong that Russia's leadership knows them just about the skin. But it must also mean that, as far as possible, we should choose sanctions that affect Russia's government and not its people. It is also obvious to the Left that the right of asylum should apply, and we do not agree with the Prime Minister's earlier statement that responsibility for receiving refugees lies with other countries. I hope that the Prime Minister has now changed his mind and that refugees from Ukraine who are in Sweden or come here may stay and that we offer asylum in the redistribution that will take place. Sweden's asylum policy must always live up to the right of asylum.
i-Q2cUZMU9MbvXWRYf5jrcdN	Madam President, I would like If you read the statements I have made on refugees, you can see that I have been following the same line throughout this time. Of course, Ukrainian refugees fleeing war, destruction and the risk of death will be able to find refuge in Europe, and of course Sweden will be one of the countries that will show solidarity. But it is not possible that Sweden repeatedly takes the absolute greatest responsibility of all EU countries for people on the run, but here we need to share the responsibility jointly and severally among the European countries. There was no discussion about stopping all trade in Russian gas and oil. Everyone is aware of how dependent parts of Europe – not Sweden, but other European countries – are of Russian gas and oil. This is another argument for what we from the Swedish side have been pushing for a long time, namely that it is inappropriate to be this dependent on Russian gas and oil. There are several reasons for this. There is a security policy dimension to what is becoming very clear here and now, and it is also about this being bad for the climate.
i-JHW8vWqr1AChw2f7988aZE	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. I note that the Prime Minister mentioned oil and gas but did not say anything about uranium, which is also something imported from Russia. I also did not hear a response to how European leaders are discussing how to support the Russian civilian population and the opposition in the work against the war and to reduce the suffering of the Russian people. We should, of course, focus on Ukraine, but also on the fact that innocent people in Russia are not suffering but that it is indeed the leadership – those who are running this war – who are suffering the sanctions. It is good that Sweden will accept refugees. However, the big question is, when it comes to redistribution, whether we in Sweden will offer refugees asylum in Sweden. I am talking about a redistribution from those countries that may be receiving millions of refugees in the future.
i-XpJ9ki29h4tUZGxwVVkzVv	Madam President, I would like There has been no discussion about Russian uranium. As far as the Russian civilian population is concerned, I think we should be open and honest: of course the Russian civilian population will be affected. There is war, and Russia is currently attacking another country. First of all, it is the Ukrainian civilian population that is affected, but in addition, of course, the Russian civilian population will be affected by this, as will the civilian population throughout Europe. A war of this size will not go unnoticed for any European. It is not yet said how it will be redistributed, but this is a discussion that will come now in the European Union.
i-TJMn4hsSTYD1ShC9xg2YG	Madam President, I would like Putin has destroyed the world order that we have become accustomed to. What we took for granted is over. The structures that arose after World War II for us to live in peace and freedom have been broken down. It is incomprehensible and painful, and it takes courage to dare to take new steps. As we have heard from the Prime Minister, the EU has taken new steps. The EU has stepped forward and shown leadership. Countries that have previously hesitated have turned around – not least Germany's huge commitment to defence and farewell to Nord Stream 2 demonstrate this – and all EU countries have jointly decided on sanctions that hit hard. The decision that the European Peace Facility should be used to provide those who are now fighting heroically at the front line of military equipment and weapons is great and important, although the government has been unclear to the EU Board as to how proactive it would be in this regard. As we establish new sanctions, Russia excludes from international communities and increases support for the Ukrainian army, a new chapter is also written in our common history. Madam President, I would like In other words, this is about historic decisions on targeted sanctions, among other things. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore whether the government and the EU are willing to also impose sanctions on those states that are now doing everything possible to ensure that the Putin regime is not affected by the measures and sanctions that we are imposing. What I heard in the re-report was Belarus the only other country that was raised at the summit, and there the conclusions were rather vague. We heard the Prime Minister say that they are working on this. What does that mean? They're needed now. When are they expected? For example, when is Belarus thrown out of Swift?
i-HnDwpSnTMG2K8duo6hENh4	Madam President, I would like Sweden has been a major driver of the European Peace Facility. We have pushed this issue very strongly. What about the sanctions against Belarus? It works here and now. Sweden is also pressing for further sanctions against Belarus. This is something that I think we are discussing now and working on in Brussels among our ambassadors. I hope that we will be able to come to a decision as quickly as possible. That's what we want from the Swedish side. As far as I am aware, no further states are currently being discussed. But the reason why Belarus is now under discussion is that Russian troops are attacking from within Belarus. That is not the case with any other country. Then you have to have some other principle in that case.
i-CbW3MvbbTeBYaTLhMWp6gF	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. It is no other country that supports Putin in this way. On the other hand, they are increasing trade in a way that makes our sanctions less effective, hence my question. For example, it will be crucial how China will act. It is a huge market and an important trading partner, not only for Russia but also for us. Is the government prepared to get the EU to impose sanctions also on China, which is now very much loosening the rules on Russian trade? Otherwise, I would like to thank you for being a driving force on Belarus, because it is very important that this should happen now.
i-B95FE1vMECGDuL7o4JrY3M	Madam President, I would like Sofia Damm highlights important issues. We're not in a position to sit and rule things out. The development of events is extremely rapid, and it is a question of constantly adapting policies to the current situation. We are, of course, prepared to use the entire arsenal in the toolbox. One thing that has been very gratifying in the last 24 hours is that Switzerland is now saying that they are joining the sanctions. Of course it means a lot, because there is a lot of money invested in Switzerland.
i-FhkAJxpZkR83e9i2gBrjw4	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for reporting back. The EU has come together at a time when it is absolutely necessary to do so. In a week, nothing is the same in our world. People have been forced to make choices they never thought they would have to face. Governments have also changed decades of defence and security policy in a few days. Sweden and the EU are good at investigating, investigating and talking. But our ability to investigate is not what will be crucial, but our ability to act. Throughout history, Russian government leaders have repeatedly shown that human life, one's own or others', is completely secondary. It appeared in Afghanistan in the 1980s, in the Chechnya war in the 1990s and when in Moscow high-rises were blown up with civilians in order to achieve political goals. That makes the Russian regime very dangerous at this point. It means more bombs and more indiscriminate violence directed at the Ukrainian civilian population. We have already seen signs of this. The European Union and Europe must already be prepared for the next step: our response to the violence that we unfortunately know will come. My question to the Prime Minister is: what is the government's answer to this?
i-UJH56PzhEyWwqhA53Qu4B	Madam President, I would like Maria Nilsson points out that it is important at this point not to keep investigating things and sit down thinking – this is about taking action. I have to say that I think that not least at European level we have been historically quick and able to show a united front within the European Union, but also with our transatlantic partners and with the United Kingdom. It's been a huge force. It is clear that the package of sanctions that we have already decided, what we are in the process of taking decisions on and the forthcoming additional package of sanctions will fundamentally shake the Russian economy and society. We have acted quickly here. We in Sweden have also been able to make decisions quickly, not least through constructive action here in Parliament on further support for Ukraine humanitarian, military and purely economic. Now the government is following developments very closely, but is also actively working on additional measures that may need to be implemented given how the development will take place in the next few days.
i-PpkhwUYwFJuMfFjAbtLwyH	Madam President, I would like The European Union has acted, as I think we all know here, and that is a good thing. My point is that we and the European Union must always be one step ahead when it comes to the Russian regime. We must be prepared for the measures and actions that the Russian regime will implement in its next step. For example, Kiev is now almost surrounded, Charkiv and Cherson as well. Food and medication are scarce. There will have to be some kind of humanitarian corridor. These are the next steps for which we must already be prepared to act.
i-FPSSvoD1QDBZP65mQi835E	Madam President, I would like Maria Nilsson is absolutely right. That is exactly the kind of question that needs to be prepared. There is a risk that in the near future, attempts are being made to cut off the possibilities of supplying not only food and medicines but also weapons. Of course, we need to be prepared for this and plan for how to act in such a situation. In addition, we are pushing for further sanctions against Russia. There are now also many private initiatives concerning sanctions against Russia.
i-5yJfsfaGNP4ajDGDEpRazJ	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister very much for the European Council's report. I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for the resolute work that has been done in pushing for harsh sanctions. I am very proud that Europe has been able to face up to such tough sanctions in such a short time, and I am glad that Sweden has been a driving force. I would also like to thank you for the support package that we were able to take decisions on here in the Swedish Parliament yesterday in very broad agreement. I am pleased that the Green Party was able to fully support that support package. But we must also ensure that we now take the next step and prepare for what needs to be done in the future. For our part, it is a source of great frustration that our oil bills, gas bills and nuclear fuel bills have supported the Russian government and made possible a military armament that, in turn, now allows for this hugely aggressive violation and war of aggression. Is the government prepared to push for a total halt to exports of fossil fuels and nuclear fuel from Russia? Is it also prepared to develop energy solidarity within the EU and help more dependent EU countries by exporting, for example, electricity and fuels? I would also like to take this opportunity to highlight the issue of the refugees who are now coming from Ukraine and who need all the support and assistance they can get from us and from the European countries. It is very important that we do everything we can, both nationally and within the European Union, to enable people to get the protection and support they need in this extremely difficult situation, where parents are torn away from their children and the elderly are forced to leave the country they have lived throughout their lives. Now there is talk of the activation of the mass refugee directive. Is that something that Sweden will support? How is the work being done to prepare ourselves to make our contribution and to receive people fleeing Ukraine?
i-UsrkktNpbyUhqZuDTRQnuD	Madam President, I would like Total import bans for oil and gas were not up for discussion on Thursday. Maybe it'll come up in the near future, because things are moving very fast. Regardless of what happens in it, it is clear that Europe cannot be so dependent on Russian gas and oil, but we must find other forms of energy. For example, a rapid expansion of offshore wind power in southern Sweden would be a way to reduce dependence on Russian gas. From a security policy point of view, this would be very welcome. It would of course also be good for Swedish electricity prices. Of course, Sweden is preparing for refugees to come here. The Finnish Immigration Service is working on an inventory of the locations and how to increase the number of places. Poland and the other neighbouring countries are currently working fully to support people and give them a roof over their heads. It is not unlikely that some of them will eventually move on to other European countries – although they always want to be able to return home as quickly as possible at the beginning of an escape.
i-Y5y7Sc4aoRr7gbQ4CQdkKs	Madam President, I would like Together, let us welcome the fact that all the measures taken by the Green Party and the Social Democrats in the Red Green Government to reduce Sweden's fossil dependence are now worth gold. Every wind turbine and every electric car is reducing our dependence and thus the power of Vladimir Putin, and this work must be intensified forward. When it comes to Sweden's responsibility to help people who are fleeing for their lives, I am pleased with the swing that has taken place by the government saying that Sweden will take its share of the responsibility. It is also gratifying that many other European countries have changed their tone and are prepared to take on a great deal of responsibility. But then capacity needs to be increased. For the Prime Minister a dialogue with, for example, SKR to see what the municipalities need in order to be able to make their contribution? Does the government strengthen the authorities so that they can have greater capacity to receive the people who flee?
i-5z1un59tTnQNvi5iwnKU2p	Madam President, I would like The Finnish Immigration Service takes stock of their capacity and how they can increase their capacity. I have also been informed that there is a dialogue with municipalities, and there is, of course, a previous experience in receiving refugees. However, it is important that all countries in Europe prepare to receive refugees so that together we take responsibility for the people who are now fleeing war and death.
i-MydKfzspz1N3t5aUBzkshM	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for a good report. I would like to extend warm thanks to the government for acting so quickly in these terrible circumstances and for being a driving force in European cooperation in order to bring about rapid sanctions and strong support for the Ukrainian people. Like Per Bolund, we took a unanimous and historic decision in the Swedish Parliament yesterday. This has not happened since 1939 when the Soviet Union attacked Finland and the Swedish parliament and the government made a similar decision. We felt strong and solidarity in Parliament yesterday, and the atmosphere was good, which shows our solidarity with the Ukrainian people. I am particularly pleased that the Prime Minister mentioned Belarus, which is currently actively supporting the Russian attack war in Ukraine. The Prime Minister has noted that there will soon be strong sanctions against Belarus. That is good, because they will be needed because Belarus will certainly sharpen the tone and be even more active. There are ongoing discussions on various forms of sanctions, and we have seen, among other things, sports sanctions. Are other sanctions discussed, for example in the area of research cooperation, the Arctic Council or cultural cooperation, which could put further pressure on Russia and the Russian government?
i-JkTiZ6q5pQARhAjDK9ez4h	Madam President, I would like There is a broad inventory of how to act against Russia in the next steps. Here's everything on the table. The precondition is, of course, that it must be beneficial: to isolate Russia so that the will to run the war is diminished in the Russian State leadership, but also in the Russian people. It is, of course, a question of constantly balancing which sanctions are the best ones to put in place on this basis. Sport is, of course, being discussed, and we are also looking at various international organisations and cultural exchanges.
i-26a9gL1gwCEEnvfk66w9Q8	Madam President, I would like Among other things, I am President of the Baltic Sea Parliamentary Conference, where Mr Wallmark is also a Member. We have quickly and relatively recently frozen our cooperation with Russia, which is an active member of this organisation – in fact one of the few such associations Russia is in. Are such talks taking place in the body of governments with regard to the Arctic Council and so on? Are there discussions about how Sweden should handle Russian membership in such associations?
i-VuqUf3dFLX8YW4LEA2Chwg	Madam President, I would like Answer yes. We are looking at all forms of international organisations and cooperation that we have with Russia to see what it is appropriate to phase out and whether there is any particular reason to keep any.
i-cwjpSrVJgYsXjyqvTxx81	Madam President, I would like On February 24, 2022, the same negligent history book as on April 9, 1940, when the Nazis invaded Denmark and Norway and on November 30, 1939, when the Soviet Union bombed Helsinki. Madam President, I would like We had Question Time with the Prime Minister here on Thursday 24 February, just a few hours after the Russian invasion of Ukraine began. I turned directly to the Prime Minister shortly after 2 p.m. on questions concerning both Swedish weapons and the European Peace Facility. I noted with great satisfaction that the Parliament yesterday supported this with Swedish weapons, and I also noted that on Thursday evening 24 February weapons were opened up in the European Peace Facility. That's good. I would like to thank Mrs Roswall and several colleagues on the EU Board who made this possible by pushing for Sweden to take the position that it should also have defensive weapons in the European Peace Facility. Will we see more of this? It is excellent that sanctions have been pushed forward, and we should honour the fact that the EU is doing this together with equal-minded countries and that the EU and NATO are acting together. Do you want to broaden the circle to include the men who manage and manage Putin's money? That's about fifty oligarchs. The circle around the imprisoned opposition leader Aleksej Navalnyj has pointed out 35 people, but Bill Browder has added a few more. Are we prepared to open up the weapon of sanctions against the trustees of Putin's fortune?
i-3MGGQdyrUF3zAk6cTphPje	Madam President, I would like That is precisely why Hans Dahlgren earlier today could say that we from the Swedish side want to broaden the circle of people who should be able to end up under sanctions and have their assets frozen and not be able to travel in Europe. We drive from the Swedish side that we want to be able to expand that circle. With regard to exactly what we can bring others on and which people are appropriate, we are at this point open to discussing everything.
i-Fw3CWXMCatLxT4u8vYMzbW	Madam President, I would like The problem is that they have talked about the oligarchs before, but that it has been a very bad hit and applied to quite a few of them that we know with great certainty is Putin's own material management oligarch club. I very much hope that sanctions will be broadened to make them felt for Putin and Putin's own personal economy. Furthermore, as has been said, there is a danger in delay. The Prime Minister himself pointed out that there is a danger that the supply chain is now being cut off. That is precisely why it is regrettable that we have not taken some of the decisions long before. Again, I think it is a good thing that we met on Thursday 24 February to open up the EU Peace Facility, but we could have opened up for Swedish weapons much earlier. And the Prime Minister could have accepted my questions at Question Time. My second question is this: if sanctions are now opened up against Belarus too, are they also being imposed on Lukasjenko and his private wealth?
i-BcZN7rXUA5XovKonrKTPgc	Madam President, I would like Just Navalnyj's list is one of the things that spins around in the discussions. There are several who have noticed that in the circle around the people on this list may be interesting people. Exactly what we are able to agree on, we will come back to in the near future. What is important is that these discussions take place quickly. We will find out exactly what sanctions are against Belarus, but we know that sanctions against the circle around the leaders are an effective way. I therefore assume that it will be one of the things on which we can agree.
