i-WmyH9yYG5jJzBrC735bBbH	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Sku15 report of the Committee on Taxation on excise duties. Motions of various kinds are included in the report, ranging from proposals to the reduction or removal of certain excise duties to proposals on increased and new taxes. In total, we have well over 20 excise duties in our country, and almost all of them are included in today's dossier. We're supposed to have excise duties for the government to get income. But too often it is also a tax to influence our consumption in one way or another. There is a wide range of exercises on the subject. The motions clearly show a strong will on the part of certain parties to limit or reduce the number of excise duties. From other parties there is a desire to increase and find new creative solutions. Madam President, I would like I can guarantee that we Moderates belong to the group that wants to review and remove certain taxes completely or at least reduce some of the excise duties. Examples of excise duties that we want to abolish completely are bonus malus and symbol tax plastic bag tax. Madam President, I would like Of the 17 excise duties included in the report, I would briefly mention some of them. This applies first to the energy tax. We want Sweden to initiate negotiations on a global minimum price of CO2 emissions. The UN Panel on Climate Change highlights a global minimum price of CO2 emissions as one of the key tools for reducing emissions and achieving the objectives of the Paris Agreement. Similar proposals have also been highlighted by a number of heavy-duty Swedish economists and climate scientists in a report from the SNS Economic Council. In most countries it is still completely or almost free to emit carbon dioxide. It doesn't make any sense. A global minimum price of CO2 emissions would change this and be a step towards the principle that those who cause damage to the environment and to the climate should pay for it in full. It also reduces the risk of emissions being moved between countries. Swedish companies do not have to compete with companies that do not have to pay for their climate impact. Madam President, I would like The next excise duty I want to mention is the chemical tax. There are clear signals that the chemical tax is disadvantageous to industries and Swedish operators and is harmful to Swedish competitiveness. Today's design of the chemical tax lacks positive environmental effects. It is spectacular, because it was one of the main motives behind the introduction of the tax. In the review of the Act on Chemicals in Electronics carried out by the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate and the Swedish Tax Agency on behalf of the Government, the authorities state that the tax did not have the effect that was intended, i.e. to reduce the supply of dangerous substances to people's home environment and thus protect human health. In their review, the authorities note that the tax is difficult to administer both for companies and for authorities. Madam President, I would like Then there is the tax on waste. The reason for introducing a tax on waste incineration is not to reduce the environmental impact of the tax-paying incinerators. Instead, the aim is to reduce the environmental impacts caused by waste generating operators. Moreover, since the tax imposed by the Government will not be passed on to the operators that affect the generation and sorting of waste, the polluter pays principle will not be complied with for its environmental impact. Thus, the tax does not fulfil its purpose, nor does it have an environmental impact. Furthermore, the tax on waste incineration has existed in the past but was abolished in 2010 because it did not have the desired effect. The government itself states that the proposed tax will not reduce climate-related emissions in the short term. Economic instruments in the environmental field should, as far as possible, assume that the polluter pays for his environmental impact. Since the introduction of the tax, behavioural changes and several other factors have contributed to the loss of fiscal significance. Its contribution to the Treasury is now negligible. In the light of what has been stated about the limited fiscal importance of the tax, reduced needs and the administrative burden it entails, the question should therefore be raised as to whether the tax in its current form has played its part. It is therefore justified to review the current design of the waste tax. Madam President, I would like Of course, I agree with all our reservations, but I support reservation number 1.
i-KxUJhbftTsQum18KR2be9F	Madam President, I would like One of the cornerstones of our economy, our prosperity and our publicly funded well-being is our energy supply. In international comparisons, Sweden's mix of carbon-free energy production through hydropower and nuclear power has stood well when it comes to emissions. Nor must we forget that Sweden is a northern country with a cold climate large parts of the year. This means that we are dependent on energy for heating. The Swedish energy and industrial sector needs conditions that are equal and favourable. Different types of energy are taxed unequally in Sweden. We therefore see a need for harmonisation in the taxation of these types of energy. Energy taxation also needs to be reviewed from an international perspective, so that Swedish industry is given the optimal conditions to operate in a competitive market. Madam President, I would like When it comes to Swedish fuel policy, we are a unique one. Given that Sweden is the third largest country in the EU, while we are the second most sparsely populated, there is a great need for well-functioning transport for both goods and people. Even before Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Sweden had the world's highest diesel price and also among the highest petrol prices in the world. One main reason for the high diesel price is the high involvement of biofuels, the so-called reduction obligation. It is not necessarily a bad thing to make us more independent of oil-producing states. However, given that we import about 85% of biofuels that we use, we are making ourselves dependent on the import of biofuels and raw materials for this from other countries, where even from an environmental and climate perspective we can question the production and transport of biofuels. In addition to reducing the reduction obligation on fuel to a more harmonised EU level, we also need to reduce fuel taxes and permanently eliminate the automatic tax increases on fuel, the so-called CPI and Bnp indexations. To implement automatic tax increases every year without the need to decide whether it is convenient for a government in this House but can also be regarded as a democratic deficit. Now, while the current government has paused the so-called bnp indexation for two years in a row and promised a frozen level of reduction, this is not enough. Madam President, I would like For a long time, our Swedish farmers and foresters have also been suffering from low profitability while fuel prices have skyrocketed. The Swedish farmers constantly compete in an international market and therefore need similar conditions as their foreign competitors have. And in view of our cold climate, we do not need to put the hookbones for them even more, but instead make sure that the tax on fuels is reduced permanently to the EU's lowest level for these industries. Madam President, I would like Given Sweden's size and sparse population, we need to be able to transport quickly between our different shipments. For both private individuals and businesses, air traffic is often a lifeblood in order to have a well-functioning economy throughout the country. The aviation tax imposed by the government has had many negative consequences for aviation, since routes and airports have been closed or threatened with closure. The costs of companies that, for example, hire consultants or send their employees to training courses abroad increase sharply when travelling times in some cases multiply. Aviation tax has also been criticised for not having an environmental management function, but for being charged the same amount regardless of how environmentally friendly aviation is. Madam President, I would like As far as most excise duties are concerned, the government has been extremely constructive and inventive in making up new things to tax. We have the chemical tax – a weight-based tax on electronic goods to reduce the proportion of dangerous substances in electronic products. But to believe that Sweden with its small market could affect the use of various chemicals by global electronics giants is nothing but naive. The tax has also been criticised for not being environmentally responsible and also for putting the business community on the hook. Another highly criticised excise duty is the waste incineration tax. It is a tax that district heating and combined heat and power plants must pay for the waste that is burned in their plants. This tax has also been criticised, and the Swedish Tax Agency's own investigation concluded that the tax does not effectively steer towards the objectives that motivated its introduction. We also have the famous plastic bag tax – a behavioral tax of SEK 3 plus VAT for each plastic bag that would prevent plastic in nature and in whales stomachs. This is actually an EU directive on reduced consumption of plastic bags. However, it turned out after the introduction of the tax that Sweden was already in line with the EU's desired reductions, but little helped this. The plastic bag tax did not result in the tax revenue that the government had anticipated, but the government certainly considers it to be successful as it actually changed the behaviour of consumers. Today, much fewer plastic bags are sold in stores – at the counters. Instead, consumers are now buying their plastic bags for waste on a roll in the store. These are bags that are often imported from the Far East and made of virgin plastic. Madam President, I would like Interestingly, the government had announced a tax on clothing and shoes before the budget last autumn. This, too, was a tax to be paid according to the weight of the garment. However, the budget chose not to proceed with this proposal. If this is due to the criticism of the opposition and the business community or to the fact that the tax would be introduced in an election year, perhaps we should leave it unsaid. The government had also announced a tax on disposable items of up to SEK 5 for a coffee mug and up to SEK 7 for a food container. Here it was probably the pandemic that got in the way, but one should probably not be surprised if both of these proposals emerge from the desk drawer again if there is not a change of government in the autumn elections. Taxes should be balanced and used with caution so as not to undermine the legitimacy of the tax system. The Swedish Democrats, of course, support all our reservations in the report, but call for the profit of time when voting in favour of our reservation number 12.
i-2JVjBM8NN4KdZ7t6pcNPsb	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. It certainly feels a little tricky to stand here today debating excise duties when the world around us looks like it does – when the world around us is actually crazy. It seems to me that we have done nothing more in the last two months than to discuss excise duties in order to compensate for the increased costs of Putin's war in Ukraine. We need a robust and predictable tax system, because then we will be better equipped for the next crisis. If there's anything we've learned in recent years, it's that crises are coming – and hopefully they're going. That is precisely why it is important for us, after all, to debate and decide on improvements in the tax system. We need to attach greater importance to taxes that correct problems and do not distort the economy. This applies not least to excise duties, which is what we are discussing today. With excise duties, we can control people's consumption and production. That is the point: to direct people to make different choices. But then we must also make sure that something that is good or better is guided. Otherwise, it's kind of no use. We tax what we do not want in society, but in the second balance we lower taxes on what we want more of, for example work and hours worked, to get Sweden on its feet. Madam President, I would like Many people think of alcohol taxes or tobacco taxes when you talk about excise duties. Fewer may think of the potential for governance in this area, for example in the environment and climate. I would like to say something about road traffic, which is what gives rise to most of our emissions. It is beyond doubt that emissions from traffic must be significantly reduced. However, as far as road traffic is concerned, according to the Center Party, the solution is not to tax distances. You cannot tax distances only in a country like Sweden. You cannot punish people and businesses who live and work in the country, because there are no railway tracks to replace road transport. Road wear and emissions from traffic are not just about CO2 emissions, which is, among other things, what is taxed when you think. It's about a lot more. What is the environmental impact of the vehicle's driving throughout the traffic system? The model of excise duty on emissions must take into account the city and country, the time of day, the roads on which you drive, and whether there are alternatives to vehicle transport. Technology on the vehicle, weight, axles, drafts and lots of things – all of this and more need to be included in a review on tax shifting in the transport sector. Sweden needs to push forward within the EU to ensure that it is possible to continue to exempt renewable fuels from carbon tax, and this without the EU interfering in what raw materials are available and their suitability for biofuel production. The EU has stated in the past that food-based biofuels, for example, are not quite as good as others, but rather to assess efficiency or climate benefits. We actually produce biofuels in Sweden, and that production must increase. It has become very obvious, not least now. Madam President, I would like Small-scale beverage production has gained a huge boost in recent years, and with some regulatory simplifications it can flourish even more. The EU has opened up the possibility for Member States to apply a lower alcohol tax to beer produced by independent small breweries. All EU Member States – if I am not wrong – except Sweden and Italy apply reduced alcohol tax in accordance with the intention of the directive, as well as Norway. Evaluations from countries applying these reductions show that they have had a positive effect on the domestic beer market in terms of competition, growth and supply. All craft breweries are, as we know, small companies. The largest breweries that count as small enterprises definitely have no more than 20 employees. Reduced excise duty on beer can thus lead to a little better competition and to a levelling-off of conditions of competition so that everyone can gain the benefits that larger breweries can achieve. It is therefore an aid to small businesses. The Center Party believes that the government should review the possibility of introducing a differentiated excise duty on beer produced by smaller local breweries. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude with a few words on the waste incineration tax. Several studies, as we have heard here, note that the tax does not affect recycling, sorting or choice of materials, and that the tax is not transferred to the person who generates the waste and therefore does not comply with the polluter pays principle, and that the tax does not have an environmental impact. The tax is purely fiscal, which reduces the competitiveness of urban electricity production in, for example, cogeneration plants. Here in Stockholm, what I understand the situation has been so acute that temporary solutions with costly contracts without market grounds have been concluded between local electricity producers and the municipality. The waste incineration tax needs to be differentiated in order to have a greater environmental impact, combined with the development of a new strategy for increasing the sorting out and recycling of household waste in accordance with the principle of a circular economy. Of course, I support all our reservations, but I only support reservation 43.
i-KH3L48RSjzx1rU8ijwFy6W	Madam President, I would like It's great to see so many people here today. Welcome to Parliament, everyone! What we are discussing here today is excise duties. There are very many different excise duties in almost as many different areas. Anyone reading through the report we are debating may have the impression that it is very sprawling. But in common with many of the excise duties that exist or are proposed in various sports is that in one way or another, and for one reason or another, they aim to control our behavior – we will drink less, smoke less, play less, fly less or buy fewer new phones. In some cases, the purpose is good and a tax is also the right tool for the purpose. Other cases are more doubtful, and it can be questioned whether the purpose is right, whether a tax is the right tool and whether the tax in question is properly designed. It is important that the excise duties that exist fulfil their purpose and do not have unreasonable consequences, otherwise they risk undermining confidence in the entire tax system and ultimately also confidence in the state as such. Madam President, I would like The report we are discussing today is based on motions submitted during the general exercise last autumn. Since then, a great deal has happened. The failure of energy policy which led to the closure of important planned nuclear power first led to very high prices of electricity in December, January and February, which have affected both individuals and businesses in a completely unreasonable way. Then, at the end of February, came Russia's renewed invasion of Ukraine, which led to further increases in energy prices. The problem of high energy prices and the excessive consequences they have for individuals and entrepreneurs must be met vigorously. At the acute stage, we Christian Democrats proposed that the energy tax on electricity be temporarily removed. But we have also come up with new proposals on how to solve the problem in the longer term. Although we may not really want to remind ourselves of this right now, in April, the more winters there will be, and if we do not want new electricity price shocks and urgent efforts then we must act now. We need to increase energy production, not least with expanded nuclear power, but also with other forms of energy, so that we have a sustainable mix. It is also important to invest in the electricity grid in order to increase capacity. But there is also a need for action in the field of taxation. We Christian Democrats have proposed introducing a shock absorber on the energy tax on electricity, so that the tax is automatically reduced when prices exceed a certain level. This will dampen the negative effect of the peak electricity prices. We have also proposed that the tax on cogeneration should be reduced through a reduced waste incineration tax. Moreover, the government wants that tax to be indexed, which would, of course, lead to even higher electricity prices in the future. We Christian Democrats are saying no to this. Now is the time to act, so that in the future the Swedish people will not suffer the same price shocks on electricity that we suffered in December, January and February. Madam President, I would like In 2017, the chemical tax, which is a weight-based excise duty on electronic goods, was introduced. Evaluations have shown that the tax has cost us about a thousand jobs and that it does not even withdraw the money it was supposed to withdraw. The tax also has a negative impact on the re-use of electronic goods. Today there are companies that buy, renovate and sell second-hand electronics. These companies create jobs and pay taxes, while their activities contribute to a circular economy and a reduced climate footprint. But these companies too are affected by the chemical tax. It wasn't supposed to be like that. In fact, companies on paper are entitled to exemption from tax, but to demonstrate this, a very large-scale administration is required to demonstrate that chemical tax is already paid for the product to be sold. Therefore, these companies are also affected by the chemical tax, and it has a negative impact on the growth of new jobs and a more environmentally friendly economy. In order to ease the administrative burden and costs for these companies, a presumption should therefore be introduced as soon as possible that the chemical tax is paid on a recycled product. This means simplification, and it means that more electronic goods can be recycled and used more times. In conclusion, Madam President, like other speakers here, I naturally support all the reservations expressed by my party, the Christian Democrats, but I am in favour of the gain of time only in favour of reservation 32.
i-5GRvkFDpcziEK9hBdvcTkN	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Let me start by saying a few words about green tax exchange. The idea behind the green tax shift is to tax what causes it to the environment, nature and climate and instead reduce other taxes. This is a very good system in essence. It is about letting those who let out pay but also about actually increasing people's freedom. If you reduce your emissions, you ultimately get more money in your wallet, which allows you to choose freely how to spend them. It's a fair system. This means that those who contribute to the problem pay but at the same time provide an option not to contribute to the problem and thus be able to get more money into the wallet. It doesn't work entirely on its own. It must be complemented by other taxes in order to safeguard the welfare and redistribution of resources in society. But basically we need to work more with green tax shifting and continue to tax the goods and emissions that are taking place that have a negative impact on the environment and the climate. Looking at the actual politics is a bit like watching the poster for the movie The Usual Prospects. It is the classic right-wing parties that basically want to remove all environmental taxes. It is said that the emitter should pay, but as soon as it comes to the end, this is no longer the case. As soon as you get a chance, you want to remove virtually all the environmental taxes we have in this country. In fact, there is only one party that really wants to work with green taxes, and that is the Green Party. Most of the other parties are actually resisting and trying to reduce taxation on what is destroying our common environment. It is the usual perspectives, and worst of all is the right wing of Swedish politics. There was a time when the right wing wasn't going on like this, including during Reinfeldt. I think it was liberating that even right-wing politicians actually had an idea that the emitter should pay and that the tax system should be used effectively to reduce emissions. This is no longer the case, but now the right parties are competing to reduce tax after tax, which is about getting a better environment. One of the most obvious issues concerning the tax system now is how to tax fossil fuels in the transport sector. In fact, we in the Green Party are all alone in not wanting to reduce the tax on fossil fuels. When we are in the midst of a climate emergency, it is, and I will try not to swear in the speaker's chair, very, very stupid to lower the tax on what is fastest contributing to warming up our planet. There it is now alone in the corner that wants to protect climate targets and continue to have a tax on fossil energy. The plastic bag tax, which has been up, has proved to be a success. It has greatly reduced the amount of plastic bags sold, not least in grocery stores and the like. The tax has also had the positive effect, which was one of the purposes of it, that you re-use your bags to a greater extent and bring with you a basket or other things to have the food in when you have shopped. Of course, that tax is intended to remove the right-wing parties. Then there is a particularly ungifted thing to do in this situation, and it is about electricity tax. One should have very great respect for the fact that electricity prices have been very high. It is reasonable to compensate for that, but lowering the tax on electricity and moving towards more electric heating would have the effect of knocking out much of the power and district heating we have in this country. This in itself would contribute to huge power problems in the Swedish energy system and increase electricity's further cold winter days. The right parties' idea of removing the electricity tax would therefore have the opposite effect to what they want to contribute, so it is particularly unwise to do so at the moment. So, of course, there is the airline tax, which is a favorite tax on the right-wing parties when it comes to what you want to remove. First of all, it is very reasonable to have a flight tax. All modes of transport pay for their climate impact except aviation. Of course, aviation, which is the fastest way to burn this planet, should also contribute financially and pay for the emissions that you contribute when flying. There is no doubt about it for those who have a sound view of the tax system. I remember when the Green Party introduced this treasure. The right parties went so far as to threaten to convict ministers because we wanted aviation to also pay for its climate impact. It is incredible and actually spectacular how far you are willing to go to stop the environmental tax. On the contrary, the airline tax should be increased. After all, it is still only a small part of the climate impact of aviation that is covered by the air tax. There is, of course, an alternative to all of this, and that is to reduce the tax on other things. We continue to reduce taxes on what is good for the environment. We continue to reduce taxes on repairs, on re-use, on things that contribute to a more sustainable environment and on jobs. The beauty of the crow song is that you can also target tax cuts. Now that we see that energy prices are very high on fuels, electricity and so on, we can therefore reduce taxes, for example, for those living in rural areas who are particularly hard hit. It's the melody ahead. It is by directing tax cuts to those who really need what we can make a real difference, rather than lowering the tax for those who live in Djursholm, for example, and driving their big suv into the city every day. It is not reasonable for them to have a tax cut because they continue driving in a big city. Of course, we support all our reservations, but in order to save time, I only ask for reservation 6.
i-WZJGsMCizJ6nC6dxAtUL5Y	Madam President, I would like Oops and viewers! Taxes in general are rarely a party promoter. Although it is of course quite easy to have a long discussion, it is only in the company of real treasure nerds that you can start talking about favorite treasures. I am pleased to hear in this House that a great many people believe that we need to carry out a broad review of the tax system. The Moderates began in their speech, and I have heard several say so. I must say that I very much agree: we would have to carry out a broad tax review and review both taxes and deductions that undermine the tax policy system. I look forward to our being able to agree on this in the future. The plastic bag tax has received quite a few boots here; it is only Lorentz Tovatt who has been up and defending it. But one can at least say that it will be a dear trouble in a bourgeois government, because it was the heart of the Liberals in the January agreement. Should it happen to be a bourgeois government, then you will have to wrestle with one of your own comrades. However, the vast majority agree that taxes are needed. The financial part is not so difficult to hear for, although we think quite different about how much tax to charge, what to charge and how much Robin Hood there should be in the system. But this thing about excise duties is a bit like being that person who reminds me that someone's gonna have to clean up after the party. Many of the excise duties are intended to control our behaviour – alcohol tax, tobacco tax, fuel tax, to name a few. And as you know, the one who is aware that you have to be involved in cleaning afterwards is a little more moderate during the evening. Many people think that alcohol is good and pleasant, but the backside of the community is also not unfamiliar. During the pandemic, the figures showed how strong the correlation between violence and alcohol is. Abuse costs society large amounts of money every year, and in addition to its own health effects, families are also affected. Especially children get hurt. I don't even think I have to go into the harms of tobacco. Some things have happened since my great-grandfather made asthma cigarettes smoke, if we say so. What I and probably the rest of you in this House usually get questions and views about are taxes on energy and fuel. We have also heard this earlier in this House today. This is an area where a great deal has happened, both in terms of how much we spend during a lifetime and the fairly recent view of how some methods and use are directly harmful to both ourselves and the planet we live on. For the generation that is now beginning to fall away – my grandmother and grandfather and grandfather who are no longer alive – the first car and installation of direct-acting electricity in the house was a major increase in the quality of life. That it cost much of their income was offset by the fact that you could get to the store without a horse and that it did not freeze on the inside of the walls during the winter. They didn't think much about their carbon footprints. They are also a generation that has had little impact, because they have had a completely different view of both consumption and travel than we have today. Many of the decisions they made were made without the knowledge that we are sitting on now and without knowledge of the decisions that their children and grandchildren would face. It is now our responsibility, based on the knowledge and conditions we have, to change so that our children and grandchildren can live and work on this planet. Sometimes it feels like everyone wants to eat the cake, but no one wants to pay for it. Most people today agree that we must take action to tackle emissions. The consequences of our way of life are nothing that comes next. It's here and now. That is why we must also take decisions here and now and decisions that are feasible now. Sweden has therefore had high ambitions in the climate transition. Taxes are a tool, but there are also other systems, such as those that were debated yesterday: the bonus malus system and the involvement of biofuels to reduce the climate impact of the cars that are already driving. It is also about us being able to continue to develop domestic production of biofuels. We are well aware of the climate issue and have been for quite some time, but the last month has reminded us of another important thing. As a country, we do not want to remain dependent on countries that do not respect democracy, human rights or the sovereignty of countries to decide on their own defence. At the same time, it is important for us as decision-makers to act so that households and businesses in the country are not overburdened when unforeseen events, such as pandemics and wars, affect cost developments. These events do not make the need to change less. They're still there. But as the leader of the country, it is our job to ensure that people manage their lives and to change. Therefore, adjustments may be needed. The government has also proposed support for households who have had right-hand electricity costs and fuel costs. These are proposals that are feasible now. Reducing taxes on fuels to the EU minimum level is one of them and is on the agenda. However, the proposal to reduce by $5 at the pump is not realistic today. You forget that. There is a left-and-right coalition on this issue that forgets to inform voters that the probability of getting through it is extremely low. The directive to which it is subject has been lifted four times by the European Commission, and four times 27 Member States have said no. The probability is not very great that we should seek a postponement and bring with us 26 other Member States that we can reduce the tax below EU level. You understand that. It becomes clear that we have very different priorities. The government wants to make a contribution for households now, while the bourgeoisie and the Left want to keep a conflict into the electoral movement rather than looking at reliefs for households. Rural and sparsely populated areas are often used as bats in the debate. I live in one of the counties with a large distance and know very well how the conditions differ. But there will never be a subway that will compensate for the distances. For us, it is therefore particularly important that we drive this development forward. For those of us who have the long distances, there is no future in continuing to drive fossils. We need to switch to something else, to new alternatives. You can't back into the future. The future will require us to make substantial expansions in the transmission capacity, but also massive expansions in the production of renewable electricity. Every morning large foundations and wings pass by where I live on the way up to what will be northern Europe's largest wind farm. It will need to be expanded here too. Let me just do a little illustration of what is happening in Norrbotten. LKAB, one of the major companies in Norrbotten, uses as much energy as the whole of Denmark. And the companies that are now being established in Norrbotten, thanks to Sweden being at the forefront of the climate transition, will require even more electricity. So it will be expanded here too. Sweden has high ambitions. It's taken us a long way. There is something human about not wanting things to change, but we cannot continue to discuss, for example, that the electric car works like an old ten-year-old iPhone. We must dare to think new and change in the future. I am quite grateful that this insight is within the Social Democracy, in fact much thanks to the trade union movement. On the floor you know that the fear that jobs are threatened is not about the future and change, it is not about changing. We can see that now. We have a government that did not believe that the basic industry in Sweden was basically gone, as the representatives of the alliance government claimed. We've had the guts to bet. We have made major decisions on how to solve the climate challenges we have. As a result, our industries are at the forefront. The eyes of the world look at Sweden. This is where you want to establish yourself, because we have dared to tackle the challenges. It is also important to remind you that this is a job. And the jobs are what makes us collect taxes and fund everything that we jointly think is important, such as the schooling for you students sitting in the gallery here in the hall. However, the pandemic has also shown that care needs to be upgraded. This also applies to caring for our elderly. We can continue to do so, because we dare to be at the forefront of the climate transition. We will continue as a country to extend a helping hand to people fleeing war, helping those who come here to build new lives and become part of Sweden. And for God's sake, don't forget that integration is never something you can demand from someone else! If there's going to be integration, I need you and me to open our doors. It is the only way we can integrate. I am so grateful for everyone who showed it in 2015 and who chooses to do so now. Thank you! We need to be more. Thanks to people going to work and paying taxes, we can improve for those who are the toughest. Swedish pensioners with the lowest incomes deserve a better standard of living. We can afford it. We can strengthen the economy of families with children and those who have long-term sickness benefits and cannot influence their income. We can alleviate the price increases of households and companies when situations such as those we have today require them. We can do this because it is order and order in the finances and because we have had a successful Minister of Finance who is today Prime Minister. Sweden is a country where people want to come to live, live and develop. We will continue to make it possible throughout the country. We shall also continue to be responsive to the needs of households and businesses and to maintain long-term objectives and ambitious climate change policies. It has served Sweden well. I call for the motion to be rejected in the report.
i-XgpmexyuNN3ETqr6t273Ad	Madam President, I would like More than 20 professions in health care are legitimised. This means that those who work in the professions must have completed their training and meet the requirements of the profession. Legitimation is simply a quality stamp for those who are ready to work as an X-ray nurse, biomedical analyst, dentist, pharmacist, physiotherapist, doctor, etc. Legitimation is central to knowing that you have the necessary skills. Working in health care means working with people's lives and health. That is why it goes without saying that we are making demands on competence. However, once you have obtained your licence, you do not have the right to continuous training or the possibility of further training. We Christian Democrats believe that if you have a licence, there should also be a statutory right to continuous and good quality training. Healthcare professionals are well educated, and the employer should ensure that skills and knowledge grow and are updated gradually for all employees. There are employers who have training plans and who implement them. But a lot of people miss it. Nor do we seem to have understood from politics that health workers should have the right to continuous training because, for example, the primary care allowance in most cases does not include money for further training. It is therefore expected to take place in leisure time or not at all. Madam President, I would like I am therefore very pleased that there is a majority in the committee now calling on the government to address this. The Christian Democrats have been exercising about it for several years, and now there is a majority in parliament that supports the demand for health professionals to receive further training. There is another announcement by the committee on the supply of skills. It is a matter of the state taking responsibility for the identification of the skills supply required in healthcare. Today, this responsibility lies with the 21 regions, which means that we lack the overall picture of who is working in healthcare or what skills they have, and that we cannot hold anyone accountable for the lack of trained staff in different professions and specialities. Nobody knows what's going on. No one is responsible for the right skills throughout the country. Yet it is the supply of skills that is central today. The reason we don't have the care places we need is because we don't have enough staff and we don't always have staff with the right skills. Madam President, I would like The government has taken steps to improve the situation. Two years ago, the National Skills Supply Council was set up. They have made a number of important proposals. We now need to take the step of giving them a mandate so that they can act in the supply of skills. That decision could be taken without changing the division of responsibilities between the state and the region in general. We can decide that the state has overall responsibility for the provision of healthcare skills. Let me take an example. WHO has provided reports to all its members – all countries – about the lack of nurses. We have it in Sweden, and it exists in many other countries. The WHO calls on the Member States to act. But who are the recipients of these reports in Sweden? Who weighs and assesses how we should view what the WHO says? Are these the 21 regions? If so, how do we get a comprehensive grasp of the necessary measures? The truth is that there are no recipients when the WHO and other international organisations make proposals and calls. It has turned out that it will then be difficult to get action and force in the measures. A national collection of skills is required for us to succeed. I am therefore pleased with the announcements and calls that Parliament is now proposing to submit to the Government regarding the supply of skills. The Committee on Social Affairs also makes proposals on maternity care. There are quite a few parts of maternity care where the committee wants improvements. It deals with cross-cutting issues in maternity and maternity care. It is about accessibility and the need to improve access to care and treatment also in the case of birth defects. The government also needs to strengthen opportunities for continuity, equal care and follow-up of maternity care. It is also necessary to review the question of early and continuous follow-up of complications after birth so that one can standardise and know which way is best to meet the women who suffer from complications and need aftercare in some form. The government should continue to work on the issue of aftercare and ensure that we have clear guidelines that apply throughout the country. We also emphasise that the government should give the appropriate authority the task of investigating a requirement for physiotherapeutic expertise on women's health. The committee here talks about important elements. Through Swedish Television's reporting we have been able to take part of something they call the regional lottery. Some were just about maternity care, a typical women's issue and a major women's issue. There are shortcomings in how this is handled. The state has made a large contribution, but it is difficult to follow up how these have been used. This shows that we have reason to deepen work on maternity care, to ensure clear guidelines for maternity care itself and aftercare, and to ensure that you get the rehabilitation you need. On behalf of the Christian Democrats, I would like to call for the approval of reservation 22, an area in which we have not received a majority. The question concerns brain diseases. We would like to see a plan drawn up to work with the various diseases of the brain. It can range from addiction to psychiatric diseases and strokes. There are many areas where we would have to work preventively, treating and rehabilitating. The committee also proposes an announcement that the government should review issues relating to genital mutilation. It is an area that requires increased attention. As I said, I would like to ask for the approval of Amendment No 22.
i-UaqzQTCEiQo1Tzthjmi19F	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 7. The report deals with the provision of skills in health care and so on. The staff is the most important thing we have in health care. Without competent staff, it will not be so good and safe health care. No hospitals and health centres with nice premises can provide a good and safe health care unless there are staff there who have the best and right skills and who also have the opportunity to use it. We see and hear nurses resign because they are worried about not getting their vacation out, not because they want to quit, but because they can't last another summer because they don't know if they will be able to take a vacation. Similarly, we have heard midwives crying for help in a tough working environment. They quit because the work environment is so tough they don't have the energy to work. They are concerned about the safety of the births of both the child and the pregnant woman. This is not how we can do it, Madam President. These are professional groups with high skills, and we need every single one of them. We need to keep them in health care. Not all plans will help centrally, but action is actually needed on the ground now or preferably yesterday. The working environment for the staff must be good with time for recovery, job satisfaction and more colleagues. There also needs to be a good basic staffing that can cope with someone being gone due to vacation, skills training, vab or disease. I'm afraid this isn't what it looks like. Many people testify that they can go to skills training, but there are no substitutes to come in and cover the staff who could have attended training. The workload is therefore even tougher for those who remain, and education cannot be given priority. During the pandemic we have seen h from the staff have worn during extremely hard hours and under enormous pressure situations. We applauded the heroes of welfare, as we called them, for their efforts, and we rightly did so. But I feel as if the applause has now stopped. It doesn't feel good or fair. The staff available are professional and competent and are on hand for all of us when we need care, whether it is during the Easter weekend, daytime or in the middle of the night. Many people testify to how well they are treated by the staff even though they have a very stressful and tough working environment. Even relatives say that they have experienced humanity and understanding when they have been worried about loved ones who have been sick or injured. Without competent staff, there will be no good care and care. Without the right skills, it is difficult to make the right efforts based on actual care needs. Madam President, I would like Already today, there is the National Council for Health Care Competences, which will contribute to a good planning of healthcare competi tiveness. They will make assessments of skills supply needs and support us decision-makers and other actors at national and regional level in terms of skills provision in healthcare. The Council for Governance with Knowledge also exists, and it will promote government governance with knowledge regarding healthcare and social services, taking into account the views and experiences of patients and users. The National Board of Health and Welfare also has the task of annually reporting assessments of the supply and demand of qualified professionals in health care. In addition, ongoing work is the agreement that the state and SKR have on good and close care where a lot of money is invested for good conditions for the health care employees. To strengthen ambulance care, money is also allocated to more nurses to be able to read to specialist nurses, and money is also allocated to enable a development and career opportunity for specialist nurses. What is most important for health care is that all employees have the skills needed to carry out and develop quality care. We must not forget or diminish that it is the employer's responsibility and duty to ensure that health professionals receive the necessary training and that this is done regularly. It is the regions as employers who have the responsibility to ensure that the working environment is so good that the staff actually manage their work and remain in health care. Regions as employers must also listen to different occupational groups when they warn about unsustainable working conditions and poor working environment. The work environment is not free and voluntary; it is actually statutory. Madam President, I would like Healthcare needs more people who can and want to work there. We need to retain skilled staff, and we need to review working conditions and to develop skills and opportunities for both recovery and holiday leave together with their family. But it is not only the state that can fix this, but it is ultimately the employers, that is, the regions, who must ensure that this works here and now.
i-nkWB2dmG9PRujaEQaE3Pe	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for your speech. I am very pleased that several parties in Parliament, almost all of them, agree that we should give money to maternity care. We've done it. We've given $1 billion every year. Yet SVT can now show when you have asked the regions that they cannot always account for how the money is spent. It is really only at Helsingborg's hospital that midwives tell us that the money is being used and that they can actually see an improved situation. It was very beneficial to hear the midwives at Helsingborg's hospital say that they are doing well now. Changes have been made in the way they needed, and the money has been well spent. But most others could not even account for how the money has been spent. I do not think that the order should be that you talk about from the state in detail how the regions should do it, but it is the maternity care that should do it and so you correct what you need to correct at home. But the fact that so many people have not spent the money on maternity care without having ended up somewhere else, I find it troubling. I would like to know how the honourable Member sees the state, the parliament and the government, deciding on money that does not go to maternity care despite the fact that we all agree that it is urgent. What do we do about it, and how do we ensure that the money is put in the right place? I have another question that I would also like to ask. I agree with the honourable Member that it is employer responsibility with competence provision and a good working environment. Nevertheless, we are helping to ensure that there is no money for further training in primary care in particular. In the primary care schemes, a few regions send money for further training. Should there not then be a reason to say that when you send money to primary care, that is to say, some kind of right to further education and training, even when you are working in primary care, there should also be money for further training? How does the honourable Member view it?
i-Y2gQr7Uo737BKCTizJL5mo	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Ankarberg Johansson, for the questions! I think we share this concern about why the money does not come where we want it. The debate on maternity care has certainly been heated, especially here in the Stockholm area. It looks a little different in the regions, but it certainly needs to be improved. We have seen so many times what midwives themselves say when it comes to not being able to take that responsibility, and that must not happen. It's definitely not okay. But we have also tried in other contexts to direct the money to this too, just as we have done in the budgetary context, and yet they do not get there. I share the honourable Member's concerns about this. I cannot understand how this is not being achieved. After all, it is the regions that have responsibility and must carry out good care in connection with childbirth. We can't have all these birth injuries that many women experience having. This has to go. We have expertise, and we have knowledge. Then the money has to get where it's most useful. They don't do that in any other columns, but it's directly to the care around childbirth that they're supposed to. We will see if we can find a better system so that we can really guarantee that the money will come where we want it. I'm sure we can do something about that politically. I share the view that money must go right there.
i-KoqWnAsqzVY6yP39B3Jrfq	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for your answer. I'm really worried. We have been keen to strengthen women's health and health care. Women suffer from birth defects that can cause life-long but chronic conditions, which are actually extremely problematic, and they cannot always get help when they seek care. This is an area that has not been given the space it should have. The need for rehabilitation is enormous. That's why this money has been necessary. They have been weighted for maternity care, but the regions have had to decide how to deal with them, and the money has not ended up where it should be. However, since the honourable Member belongs to the Government Party, I should like to know what measures you are about to take, if you have not done them yet, to ensure that the money is moving in the right direction. After all, we cannot be satisfied that we are handing out money that is then spent on other things. I would like to know what you in the Government Party intend to do to change this situation. I would also like to hear something about my second question if there is an opportunity for that. When we do not decide that you should actually be entitled to further training even though you have a licence profession, it will be wrong. Such a profession has high requirements before you receive the licence, but then you drop everything and think that you can continue working for 15, 20 or 30 years and hope that in your free time you can fix everything you need to know. I don't think that's serious. If employers cannot do it themselves, we should say nationally that if you are employed in health care and have a licence, that is, we have made demands on who you are and what knowledge you have when you work, you should also be entitled to further training. That is what a majority in the committee is nevertheless in favour of. I would like to ask the honourable Member, who has reservations about this part, why you do not think it is necessary.
i-Lf6tBZiXjbVC8vAa6P2Ebk	Madam President, I would like I share a great deal of what the honourable Member says here. On the subject of continuing training, I can only find it regrettable when many of the regions leave huge surpluses and have not spent that money on staff. Clearly, there is money here that could have been used for skills development and supply. In Sweden, we are also good at curing and doing big things with serious diseases. The technology is constantly evolving, medicines, treatments and so on. It is necessary to acquire skills on a regular basis. There is no development unless you develop your staff skills. If you do that, you can succeed in the treatments, the surgery or whatever. It is the responsibility of the regions to train their staff, but it is also shameful to have such large surpluses without sufficient training of their staff. Then we come to the issue of women's diseases. It is extremely tragic that we have not gone further in creating equal and equal care. Women are hit even harder than men. We see it in maternity care, but there are also other women's diseases that are not prioritised. The women will have to wait longer, and that's not okay. That's where we have to do even more. But it is the regions that must shoulder their responsibilities. It's the same with the work environment. It is also a question of women-dominated professions, and that is probably why working conditions are still so bad. It's not okay.
i-EE2MVfNBzXoLj6z16eArjG	Madam President, I would like This report is comprehensive and covers both many and important issues. The report covers several hundred requests for exercise from the general period of exercise. The report deals not least with the crucial issue of the provision of skills for health care. It is not possible to seriously discuss either health care problems or opportunities without also discussing skills provision and staffing issues. For, Madam President, it is staff with good skills that are the key to improving the quality of Swedish health care. And it is to a large extent the lack of staff with the right skills combined with an inefficient use of the staff's skills that means that Sweden has far too long care queues. In order to shorten the queues and make Swedish healthcare better at both preventing and treating illness, we need to make healthcare professions more attractive, and we need to use the personnel's overall expertise in a more efficient and smarter way. We Moderates have put forward a lot of proposals to achieve this. In concrete terms, it is a matter of everything from proposals to reduce the bureaucratic burden to strengthening the safety of staff. Happily, many of the Moderates' proposals have also been approved by the Riksdag. Last year, Parliament supported, among other things, our moderate proposal to develop and implement a national skills supply strategy, as well as our proposal to strengthen criminal law protection for health professionals. It is now important for the government to make a workshop of these announcements as well as the four new ones that we are proposing in the report we are debating today. My colleague from the Christian Democrats, Acko Ankarberg Johansson, has already touched on these four important announcements, but let me highlight in particular the announcement to make a national inventory of the supply of skills in health care and the announcement to introduce a requirement and the right to continuous training of good quality for health professionals. The first announcement on the identification of skills supply is needed as a basis and starting point for implementing the skills supply strategy that Parliament has already called for. The second announcement to introduce a requirement and right to continuous training aims to ensure that healthcare staff and employees are given the right conditions to carry out their difficult and important task today and tomorrow. Training is an absolute prerequisite for good and safe care. Unfortunately, we see that continuing training is often prioritised down or out of place today. If this is the case, the trade unions are alerting them. According to the Medical Association, the average period of external training for their members has fallen. On average, general practitioners in health centres receive less than one hour of training per week, and every six doctors receive no further training at all. That's not good enough. That is why we Moderates want to see compulsory training. And it is strange enough that we regulate the training of health professionals very carefully, but not the training of the staff at all. Madam President, I would like What this report is also largely about are priorities in health care. There are many proposals to prioritise care and treatment of various diseases. I would like to highlight a more general priority, namely to prioritise the care and research of women's diseases and health. The fact is that health care is not equal today. We see significant gender differences in access to care and quality of care. These are differences which are generally to the detriment of women and which are often not medically motivated. For example, women are less often treated with pacemakers than men for heart failure or implantable defibrillator for heart disorders, although the needs are just as great for women as for men. In order to create a more equal health care, we Moderates have presented a reform agenda for women-related diseases and women's health. We refuse to accept that women have less access to care and treatment. We refuse to accept that women, to a greater extent than men, are not taken seriously in health care. One particular problem seems to be that women's pain is often not taken seriously enough. It is about pain in these types of diagnoses that affect both men and women, for example in the case of lower back problems. Women experience more pain than men before they are operated on. However, it is also about the fact that healthcare is not at all good enough at detecting and treating specific women's diseases, such as endometriosis and vestibules. These are examples of diseases where knowledge needs to be increased, not least in order for diagnosis to be made in the past and treatment interventions are therefore also introduced. Today, for example, it takes an average of eight years for a woman with endometriosis to be diagnosed. It is usually eight years of extremely severe suffering. In this context, I would particularly like to highlight our moderate reservation number 19, which includes improving the early diagnosis of diseases affecting women, and reservation 24, which specifically concerns the disease of endometriosis. Madam President, I would like Of course, I support the moderate reservations and all the other moderate reservations mentioned above in the report, but for time, I only call for reservation No 43, which concerns medical abortion at home and the need for a modernised right to abortion. For a moderate, it is quite self-evident to defend every person's right to his or her own body. That's why the right to abortion is so important to us. We in Sweden really have reason to be proud of the Swedish right to abortion, but we Moderates also see a need to strengthen women's right to abortion by increasing women's self-determination and taking advantage of the great medical advances made in this area. We therefore want to modernise Swedish abortion legislation so that it will be possible for those women who, after consultation, want to do a home abortion. Madam President, I would like In the past, all parties except the Christian Democrats have expressed support for reviewing the Abortion Act in order to make it possible to have a medical abortion at home. The question now is why it is only the Centre Party and the Liberals who support the Moderates' proposal on precisely this. The Social Democrats, the Swedish Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party are guilty of the answer. Why are you betraying your announcement to open up for home abortions? Why do you betray the women of Sweden? I assume that Ann-Ann-Christin Ahlberg from the Social Democrats is now taking the opportunity to give me an answer by requesting a reply.
i-2GGVBwUbHGucb6Kwm1ZrzF	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by taking the opportunity to respond to Mr Hultberg when it comes to carrying out abortions at home. The Swedish Democrats support the Swedish abortion legislation as a whole. On the other hand, we would have liked to see more prevention measures to prevent involuntary pregnancies. We also know that medical developments have made progress. Most abortions are performed very early, before week 10. It is for this reason that we have released our previous position on amending the legislation. Keeping up with time and following research and development is extremely important in all contexts, Madam President, and not locking up in previous positions is equally important. Madam President, I would like We have indeed spoken in favour of having the issue of home abortions investigated. As I said, it is important to follow medical developments, and of course we want to work to strengthen the possibility of increased freedom of choice for women in Sweden. We also see the importance of a high level of patient safety, which is one reason why we want to investigate this issue carefully before taking a stand. That is to say, we want the matter to be examined carefully before we take a full stand. For this reason, we have chosen not to support the Moderate reservation this time, as their position does not make it clear that it is an investigation they want to see. There is also much information in the motion to which the motion refers that we currently want to look at a little more. However, I am quite convinced that Mr Hultberg and I will have the opportunity to talk more about this issue in the future. Very well, Madam President. What about the supply of competence in Swedish healthcare today? It actually looks pretty bad. It is a fact that the pandemic has given us important lessons but has also brought to light the shortcomings that exist in the provision of skills and training in health care, which we absolutely must overcome. The need is alarmingly great. But the fact is that the situation was acute even before the pandemic. The pandemic has highlighted the situation, but it is not, after all, the pandemic that is responsible for it. Today, the committee is proposing four announcements, one of which is that we want the government to be mandated to undertake a national mapping of the supply of health care skills, but also to investigate the issue of introducing requirements and the right to continuous training of existing staff. Among other things, the Moderates have made these proposals. We are grateful that they come to the surface once again, because it is extremely important that we get to grips with this in Sweden. Madam President, I would like It doesn't matter in principle what laws we change or how much money we spend if we don't have enough staff and staff with the right skills. The existing staff are often overloaded with work and have a tough working environment, resulting in growing care queues and increased inequality across the country. Many problems are based on a lack of staff and skills. One might wonder what it is that makes people not want to stay in healthcare and where the resources and money go. Therefore, it is important that we get a national survey of the supply of competence in Sweden but also get investigated how it can be required. The issue of staff is not least made clear in maternity care, as was mentioned in this House just now. In Stockholm alone, over 100 midwives have left the region since 2020, and we are unfortunately seeing similar trends across the country. While the profession of midwives is essentially an attractive profession, it is evidenced that many people choose to work in other professions after the training because the working environment and working conditions are too tough. We simply need to improve the work environment in the country's birth clinics. And it is urgent, Madam President. In Malmö, 5 out of 15 delivery rooms have now been closed in April due to staff shortages, and summer looks tough. Is it reasonable in a welfare country like Sweden that the situation for women giving birth is so uncertain? I have a little bit of tailfare, just like our feminist government. But for a government that has such a high tail on gender issues and feminism, I can only think that this is an enormous failure. Government has been in office for a number of years; yet the situation continues to be equally alarming today. Sure, the regions have their responsibilities. But if you run the country and have the same problem year after year, then I think you need to point with your whole hand. I do not think it is reasonable to spend resources and time on equal boards and quota parental insurance when we have such major problems in Swedish healthcare in terms of gender equality. As Mr Hultberg said earlier, for example, the assessment of pain in Swedish health care is unequal between men and women. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats have long highlighted the issue of Swedish women's health care. In a proposal for an announcement today, we highlight issues relating to maternity care and maternal care in particular. We in the Swedish Democrats believe that all women in Sweden should feel safe in giving birth here. That is not the case today. Activities need to be better followed up on complications in women, and this must be done as early as possible after childbirth. Otherwise, there is an increased risk that some birth injuries will not be detected or that the injury is much greater than what was assessed at the time of delivery. Therefore, we want to see early follow-up standardised as working methods within Swedish maternity care. It is also important that the staffing and skills of maternity care are adapted to the actual needs that exist. Swedish maternity care must be designed on the basis of clear national directives to ensure equal, safe and accessible maternity care throughout our country. According to Ivo, major changes can be achieved when the operations develop their working methods and methods. There are also today working methods that we can learn from and that facilitate safe delivery and reduce the risk of injuries. New research states that it is possible to reduce severe stretch marks at the end of a birth by almost a third. The solution is to have two midwives in the delivery room just as the baby is about to be born. Unfortunately, there are still considerable gaps in knowledge in research into the prevention of birth defects. A study published in the recognized journal The Lancet, based on extensive Swedish research in the field involving more than 4,000 women, shows that sphincter injuries are reduced by 30 percent if two midwives work together at the end of a birth. That is to say, three out of ten women affected by these injuries would be free of them. Several clinics already work in this way, but as there is a shortage of midwives in all 21 regions of the country, the reduction of injuries is difficult to achieve in full. We believe, Madam President, that both preventive measures and serious post-natal care must be ensured in order for all women to have confidence in maternity care in our country. In view of this, we want to see a clear strategy for safe national maternity care developed and then implemented in the regular operations in all regions. The incidence of birth defects must also be drastically reduced, and Sweden must decide on a national target for that purpose. The Swedish Democrats and I, of course, support all our reservations in this report, but I would particularly like to call for the approval of our Amendment No 28, which relates precisely to maternity care and which highlights much of what I have just mentioned: the importance of staffing and competence in maternity care, as well as clear national directives and decisions on a national objective in order to achieve safe, safe and high-quality Swedish maternity care. The state, Madam President, needs to be clear when it fails year after year. Sweden can do better than this, Madam President.
i-MSvNofTUmsRLnYtdFefR1R	Madam President, I would like The report we are debating today is about one of the really big challenges we face in Swedish healthcare. When we discuss problems in Swedish healthcare, we often find that there is a lack of competence. However, having listened to a few speeches, I have to say that I believe that many of the health professionals do not recognize themselves when this is described as a major problem. I even heard from the speaker's chair that the competence in Swedish health care is bad. We have almost 500 000 people working in Swedish health care. There's an enormous amount of expertise out there. Then there is a challenge in a number of areas, but it can be solved by means of political decisions. But the picture that there would be a huge lack of skills and major challenges I do not recognize at all. If you look at the number of doctors, and also the number of nurses, you can see that Sweden does not have few in those professions in relation to other countries. On the other hand, we must ensure that we are able to cope with retirement and also ensure that staff are in the right places. It is about ensuring that the staff are in the places where they are needed, but not least about ensuring that they do not leave the profession and choose to engage in other things, such as sitting in Parliament or other challenges. It must be so attractive to work in health care that you stay there. The key here is to make sure that we become better employers. One observation that I make during many of the visits I make to health care in Sweden is that the private care providers are often much better at being good employers than we are in public health care. I remember, for example, a visit to a dialysis department that has gone from being driven by the region, the county council, to being run by a multinational dialysis company. We had a discussion in the coffee room and I asked what the difference was. The difference is huge, said the staff, the nurses. Now we get to decide, they said. In the multinational dialysis company, nurses feel that they are allowed to take part in the decision, unlike when the region led. This is something we need to look at. How can we ensure that in public health care we are as good as we are on the private side? Another thing we need to think about is which staff groups are going to do what things in health care. This is an extremely sensitive area. There are a number of things that are being done by doctors today, that nurses would do at least as well or even better. But when this is mentioned, there is often sharp criticism from one of the professionals – and it is not the nurses. Furthermore, when you point out that there are things that nurses do today that nurses could do much better, the exact same discussion with critical views comes up. Here we need to get much better in Swedish healthcare and look at which professions are best suited to do different things. We must also be prepared to take advantage of the opportunities provided by digitalisation to cope with skills shortages in different areas. I still remember today when I visited Saxnäs last autumn, at the small retirement home far up to the Norwegian border in Vilhelmina municipality, where there were always problems with lack of geriatrics. This had been handled through a digital care provider, a geriatric from Sörmland who once to twice a week did digital rounds at the retirement home. It saved the district doctors in Vilhelmina several hours commuting back and forth. At the same time, they made sure that they got the best possible skills at the retirement home. There is so much you could do, and it is not just about making sure there are more staff. It is also a question of ensuring that the right staff are used properly. Education capacity is something the state stands for. We have the National Council for Health Care, which knows exactly what the picture looks like. Basic education is something that the state governs – how many psychologists, curators, doctors and nurses we are going to train. The weakness of the Swedish system, Madam President, is that from the basic level up to specialist competence, the regions are the dimensions of education. Something must be done about this. We should not go back to the way it used to be, when it was the state that decided this, which meant that the regions and clinics had no responsibility for the personnel supply. However, a joint responsibility must be taken so that the region that thinks it has enough general medical specialists does not refrain from further training. It's supposed to be a joint responsibility. Me and the Center Party are no stranger to putting more pressure on the regions to actually cooperate and cooperate. There are a few regions, Madam President, who are not taking their responsibilities. There is also an announcement in this report on continuing training and a statutory requirement to have the right to further training as a qualified staff. I have long been opposed to this. I cannot understand why we in health care, unlike in other areas, should legally force employers to train their staff. Most private employers make sure that perhaps 10 to 15 percent of the time is spent precisely on staff training. It is known that this can maintain high quality and be attractive. Unfortunately, however, we have, particularly in the public sector, a number of employers who have not taken that responsibility. I find it sad, but at the same time benevolent, that today we are going to put our foot down and say that there is a need for government governance in terms of training. I also think it is very good that we in Parliament will be able to make a decision regarding maternity care. We have very good maternity care in many ways. The children and the mothers survive. But we all know that there are major challenges, not least with regard to aftercare. We have also heard earlier in the speaker's chair about the concern about how we run the Swedish health care system. We have a tendency on the part of the state to send out incentives for a few years, and we believe that something will happen. I believe, Madam President, that we must move much more towards having tough knowledge management through laws, regulations, regulations and national guidelines. In addition, we must ensure that the teeth of the Inspection for Health and Care are tightened so that impact can be made in those areas where the national quality targets are not actually met. There are deficiencies in maternity care in many places – here there is a huge difference. This is not a lack, above all, of the number of midwives or the financial resources, but of the skills involved. This is not always achieved by means of incentive grants. Madam President, I would like to express my support for reservation 47, but I also support all the reservations expressed by the Centre Party.
i-R3u1Tw6aUtuy2mzv43GKXB	Madam President, I would like The Social Affairs Committee can sometimes agree on certain issues when one sees that one has motions that flow together. We have done so this time, and I will highlight these announcements one more time. It is about the requirement to have the right to continuous and good quality training for health professionals, to review certain horizontal issues relating to maternal health and maternity care and to review the issue of genital mutilation. I feel good about that. It seems that many believe that it is the state that controls health care. You can get that feeling in the debate here. But that is not the case; it is 21 regions that are governed politically. The majority of the regions are governed by bourgeois parties. I just want to say that, because sometimes the debate gets a little strange. The planning horizon for the provision of health care skills must be long-term and not as hasty as it is now. Basic and continuing education needs to be ensured for the whole country based on the needs of the population. We want to see a long-term national economic plan for initial, continuing and continuing training in healthcare that is kept together much better than at present. The government's governance of skills needs in healthcare needs needs to be strengthened. The government and the authorities need to be a little more operational. It also requires a strengthened mandate for the national healthcare competence area to design and dimension healthcare skills needs. Health care, Madam President, should be given on equal terms for the entire population. It's supposed to be equal. We'll agree with that. This also means that healthcare professionals need to acquire the skills needed to meet healthcare needs. The ability to develop skills must be available regardless of where the employee works. No healthcare provider should be able to waive its responsibility. It should not be freely chosen work, but I mean it has been. Each doctor must have an individual training plan that is followed up and revised. We are now forwarding this to the government. Continuous training is also included in an announcement I told you about earlier. Madam President, I would like Then there is the possibility of paid specialist training for nurses. It also varies considerably between regions. Some employers require employees to continue working for a certain number of years after the courses for which they are paid, while others do not. It's some sort of lottery business, and we can't have it. It is important that we move forward with this issue and get the same conditions throughout Sweden when it comes to specialist training on paid working hours. The healthcare needs of the population require more specialised nurses, and care places require competent staff – not just beds. We are now also seeing population development and retirement among our staff, and that also requires us to do something forward-looking. The post-pandemic period must not mean a return to what it looked like before the pandemic. Nurses must be offered a level playing field throughout Sweden when it comes to paid specialist training in all specialities. I hope that the regions will heed this. The crisis we have in health care – I would nevertheless like to say that it is a type of crisis – is a human resources crisis. The situation has been strained for a long time, and during the pandemic it has become very clear. In my opinion, this is about a bloodletting of public health care throughout Sweden. This can be followed, and it is not at its peak. After all, we have a large number of doctors and nurses, and one might ask why staff choose to quit. Is that too much administration? Why did people drop out? Such questions must also be asked by the regions when they see staff disappearing. It is also a matter of lack of care places, for example within iva. It is serious to move intensive care patients around to other regions. It's in danger of life. It is necessary for the state to take greater responsibility for education in all health professions. Equal national economic governance in health care is also required. For example, it costs more to carry out care in areas with a large distance. This must be taken into account in a different way. The Left also wants, as you know, to regulate the private market more than today. We think this is important, but I will not go into it now. I'll have to do that another time. There is also a need for a review and a follow-up, so that the regions cannot spend money on top of the money received from the state. We have looked at this and find it interesting to sit with the billions in the closet while cutting down within the regions. I find that very interesting, and you wonder where the money will go. You'd have to follow that up. The money that the state has spent during the pandemic should operate in healthcare. That's the idea. If money is not well spent, for example when you have contributed quite large amounts to maternity care, you must be able to follow this up in a completely different way from today. We cannot let billions roll without them leading to something happening. It's very irresponsible, I think. We have an extremely skilled health care staff. It's an amazing staff. They must be able to see that the efforts made are long-term and that they are also broad and can operate over several mandates. I think that's important. Regardless of the majority, parties have gone out and said that they are allocating this and so many billions to something certain, because it gives better impact in the media. For the Left Party, it is vital that women should not be harmed during childbirth. We were involved in investing money in this. We could see that things got better in Stockholm, for example, where you had incredibly bad results when it comes to birth injuries. But if you look at the statistics today, you also get a little wonderful. The figures for stretch marks in first-born mothers vary widely between regions. That is 2.3% in some regions and 7.2% in others. It's too much variety. This is a serious matter, and better attention must be paid to women's health care. Madam President, I would like Health care, including dental care, must work for good health and care on equal terms. It's in the legislation. Therefore, there is also a central and unique opportunity to discover and support the victims of violence, but we in the Left do not think that this has been done in the way that would have been necessary. The National Board of Health and Welfare says that it is up to three times more common for women with experience of violence in close relationships to seek healthcare than it is for women who are not exposed to violence. Brå has also seen that about 29 percent of the women who had been subjected to aggravated assault during the past year went to doctors and so on. But the woman who comes to the hospital may not say that she has been abused by her husband, but she is looking for care for something else. This needs to be better detected by the staff of the regions. When the woman is with the doctor, you have a golden opportunity to ask what the situation is. We have a motion on this, and it is a pity that no more have hung on it. It is about being able to offer the right care and treatment and to use the resources of care more effectively when it comes to victims of violence. That is why I would like to support reservation 14, but of course I support all the other very good motions from us in the Left Party.
i-XSX8ACX4XVk6ACi1ahbPpA	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered by Minister Ardalan Shekarabi, Minister Anna-Caren Sätherberg, Minister for Culture Jeanette Gustafsdotter and Minister Johan Danielsson. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. The Government Shekarabi answers both general policy questions and questions within its own area of responsibility.
i-6N6oMtP8hsH9u7NoTb3E2m	Mr President, I would like to It's a war, and they're trying to kill us. This is how the police described the situation during the riots this weekend. Many of those who took part in the riots were known by the police earlier, with links to gang criminals, but there were also people who were not known: women, the elderly, and children who, together with their parents, threw stones at the police. The chief of police told us that the sky was black with stones, that police thought they would die on the scene and that they have never experienced anything like it. A cop got a rock in his head and passed out. Then the stone stones applauded. The Moderates want the state to take back control in these areas. Police density at least on the EU average, increased wiretaps, anonymous witnesses, double sentences for gang criminals and making being in a criminal gang punishable – why do the Social Democrats say no to this? That's my question to Ardalan Shekarabi.
i-7s66GJ3Zg3nPz1HGmG61rd	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Louise Meijer, for the question! The enemy is not in this room, Mr President. It is the duty of the Social Democrats, the duty of the Moderates and the duty of all parties to cooperate, to gather together and take back control of our country. We will help each other and continue to make the journey necessary for the state to be strong. The time for the state to shrink is over. This is where the state must be strong, both socially and repressively, where it needs to be. I really want to send all the solidarity to the police who worked during the Easter weekend – all those who stood on the front line and were prepared to risk their own lives to defend democracy. They're gonna have our backup. Unitedly, we will stand behind them, and united we will work to change the legislation and provide them with even more resources.
i-JQU93dFiq7qc8QJh5ywj4h	Mr President, I would like to The enemy is not in here, but those responsible for the political development of the country are in here. And there are none other than the Social Democratic Government. I wonder why it is justified that the penalty discount that still exists for 18 to 20-year-olds can apply to crimes such as vandalism, violence against officials and several of the criminal acts that we saw during the weekend riots. How do the Social Democrats justify that the penalty rebate should still be in place for these acts?
i-RcBpAM4PU5ZTUadYQkirfT	Mr President, I would like to Louise Meijer is aware of all the reforms that have been implemented in the area of criminal policy. The penalty rebate has been reformed in order for the state to show its strength. Many penalties have been tightened up, and resources have been added to the Police Authority. We will continue to invest in strengthening the police and tightening up the legislation, for the state will have control. It is about democracy in our country.
i-JqCJTgw5Qroa4Sw7VHnrCB	Mr President, I would like to They tried to kill cops. That is how the chief of police described the Koran riots that took place during the weekend. Many are the police who have testified to senseless violence, and it is frankly pure luck and chance that no police officer was killed. The police during the riots formed the thin blue line between our majority society with our values and a senseless and bloodthirsty barbarism. Morgan Johansson's answer to this has been that the police have what they need and that if they do not, it is the fault of the previous alliance governments, not his. This is unserious. When will the government act and regain control of the now seemingly lost areas?
i-BtUkWMViKBB9Gv83mNAdF5	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Tobias Andersson, for the question. It is the government's most important priority to strengthen the police and to combat and prevent crime, but it is also our duty to be careful. We should not allow the extremists to divide our country. This is not about a struggle between religions. We will stand up for democratic values and for our police force regardless of our background. We're gonna stick together. We should not allow right-wing extremists and Islamic fundamentalists to divide the Swedish nation. It is through unity and through community and gathering that we can win the battle against those who want to harm Swedish society. Putting majority society against minority society in a situation where we know that most of the people living in the areas exposed to this crime are on the right side is breaking up a society. We don't need any more fragmentation, because then the extremists will win.
i-PVmFGrZq28qQb6GVQtSEts	Mr President, I would like to I think I speak in favour of the majority of Swedes when I say that this type of violence does not belong in our country. In Sweden you stand up for the police. In Sweden there is a sense of trust in society. In Sweden, freedom of expression is protected. If you have problems with any of these, there are other countries that are better suited to you. Will the government ensure that perpetrators of violence like those we saw this weekend are expelled from our country?
i-FAsoBrxHswmGBkk6YGgrV9	Mr President, I would like to Those who have committed these terrible crimes must be prosecuted. They will be punished, and if the law permits, they will also leave the country. That goes without saying. We're here to protect our democracy. We stand here today because we believe in our democracy and our freedoms – the freedom of demonstration, freedom of expression and freedom of religion. It is about cohesion and community, and it is precisely these values that the government is fighting to preserve.
i-HFXyq2WywcTAQvbobY4Nut	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg. The distribution of income taxes among Sweden's municipalities is based, as is well known, on where the person generating the tax revenue is man-made as of 1 November of the year before the acquisition takes place. The municipalities then receive part of the income the year after it has been earned. However, when a citizen moves to a municipality, that municipality takes over the cost responsibility of the citizen from day one. This discrepancy affects mainly rural municipalities which have a large tourism sector, such as Härjedalen and Åre, and the lack of availability of municipal funds risks causing regional development to fall behind.
i-NCzpscvSBmnuTkb9qDNbHV	Mr President, I would like to Welcome to the Swedish Parliament, Hanna Wagenius! This is a very interesting question. It is interesting precisely for the tourism municipalities, as Hanna Wagenius says. Mantal writing on November 1 comes from the States. It was at that time when you had to move during that week and then sign up for a new place on November 1st. But what the government is also doing, as Hanna Wagenius may be aware, is that we have now, for example, made major changes to the municipal equalization system that has benefited the small municipalities, such as Härjedalen and Åre, compared with the large municipalities that have completely different challenges from the small ones. I am pleased that the Center Party sided with the government so that we could implement this system and from last year when there were parties in the Swedish parliament who did not want to change this system.
i-49DTd5wDap1ySdcKNSHamk	Mr President, I would like to The municipal tax equalisation system in all honour, but basically this is about our having a discrepancy between what cost responsibility a municipality takes and what income it can also get for this. We are living in a modern era where it should not be so complicated for the Tax Agency to distribute tax revenue as well as tax expenditure on the basis of the census that we have.
i-HMLkzKbXRM36cEcphN8oXK	Mr President, I would like to As I said, we have changed the cost compensation system for the municipalities. When it comes to changing the tax equalisation system or the system of income and expenditure, it is, as Hanna Wagenius says, very important for the tourist municipalities. The other municipalities do not see this in the same way. I therefore believe that it will have to be an advocacy exercise, in which I know that the Centre Party recently stated that this is important.
i-D2knNGjmETNvmsr9SQqiGG	Mr President, I would like to During the pandemic, we saw who couldn't work from home to make our society work. Nurses, bus drivers, and preschool teachers must be in place — workers who support the community and who have had to pull a heavy load. Don't the Social Democrats think they have a right to financial security if they get sick? The Left Party proposed in its autumn budget that the withdrawal be permanently abolished. Instead, the government set up a lengthy investigation. It doesn't make any sense. Why have the Social Democrats rejected the Left Party's proposal to at least extend the temporary carer's allowance until the investigation is completed?
i-TkZKh22rP2HdP8LNKxFxkP	Mr President, I would like to I thank Tony Haddou for an important question. The cost of sick leave is not fairly distributed in our society today. Academics who have power over the workplace and working hours can stay at home and adapt the work. Workers, those who in many cases were at the front line in the fight against the pandemic, do not have this opportunity. This means that they are hit much harder by the withdrawal. Therefore, the government has now initiated a total review of the Swedish withdrawal with the possibility for the investigation to also look at other issues related to sick pay costs. That is the right method. We need to act methodically. We must ensure that we develop a model that gives the right effect and gives a fair effect that creates greater equality between the groups that have power over working time and the workplace and the groups that do not have that power. It is a matter of security for our citizens. But it is also about the power relations in the Swedish labour market. And then we have to work very methodically to develop a model that works.
i-2JLr6q6Fc5DshrbxGc5YNy	Mr President, I would like to Those who work to take care of the elderly and the sick and those who are child-careers cannot flex out in case of illness. Do the Social Democrats think that it is reasonable for a large proportion of employees to bear this cost? Why should it even be investigated? That is the attitude that makes no sense. Abolish Karen's Day! It's no harder than that.
i-RMnk4MT23XkSAnsDgVhA8m	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased to live in a country where we are doing things properly, where major reforms are being prepared, referred to and the expertise of experts exploited. We must continue to do so in this area too in order to develop a model that serves our country and our citizens best. The opinion of the Social Democrats and the opinion of the government on this issue are crystal clear, namely that we must have a fairer model. We cannot have the injustice caused by the withdrawal. But then we must develop a model that works and gives what we want to see in this area.
i-B51ayAaW2XMzUyw7V9h31w	Mr President, I would like to City after city is put into fear, and we in Sweden have seen the deadliest beginning ever in a year linked to shootings in gang crime tracks. This weekend we also saw how thugs and criminals directed their attacks directly against the Swedish police, against Swedish society and against our democracy. I read an interview with a police officer in Dagens Nyheter. He was asked if he feared for his own life. He said: Absolutely, they were after us. If any cop was left on the lawn, I can guarantee that that cop had been dead, stoned to death. The Christian Democrats suggested 20 years ago that the police should have access to water cannons. We have had proposals in our budget for six years that the police should have muscles and money to buy in water cannons, equipment with beanbags and rubber bullets. Wouldn't that, if it had been in place, have made you better equipped against these thugs, Ardalan Shekarabi?
i-FE6H95S8S2jBh5Qf1EGTh	Mr President, I would like to I thank Andreas Carlson for the question. Police forces have the opportunity to choose equipment and assistive devices. We have such a regulatory framework in Sweden. And there is a high degree of confidence in the Police Authority that you can choose the equipment and equipment needed in the police work. Of course, the police authorities are also working on developing police tactics in connection with this type of event. As the Head of the Police Authority has told us, it will look at what happened in order to strengthen the work and to combat and prevent this type of crime. The police department has our full support. All the police officers working day and night to secure the security of our country have our support. And we want to continue to show trust in the Police Authority and provide it with the conditions necessary for it to be able to do a good job.
i-VwhhcLeBqLGSJK9zw9TmjD	Mr President, I would like to Political leadership is not about acting reactively. It is about anticipating and preventing. When the KD presented the proposal on water cannons and rubber bullets six years ago, the government and then the Home Secretary rallied over the proposal. Wouldn't it have been better if the government showed leadership, stopped ragging and gave the police room in the budget to prioritise water cannons and rubber bullets that would have made the police much better equipped?
i-TwjDWNK5JYeVpA381CSi5s	Mr President, I would like to There is an extensive knowledge resource at the Swedish Police Authority. And in several different parts, the Swedish police are world leaders in the development of methods and technology. Should politics intervene in an area where the police have the power to choose equipment and run over the police? We have faith in the Swedish police. We have confidence in all those who risked their lives for the safety of the weekend and who do so today and who will do so tomorrow. Politics must stand there and show support and trust in the Swedish police.
i-TExfW5q5Xnqj49mwtgbvJ1	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Danielsson. According to a recent survey, seven out of ten people want to own their home. What does the Minister of Housing say to anyone who now wants to start saving but realizes that they cannot save up for a cash bet in the foreseeable future. A recent study made a proposal for a starting loan, which we in the Liberals welcome. But it will still be difficult to save up for the bet. No tax-favourable savings have been presented. Instead, Magdalena Andersson has wanted to increase the tax on savings accounts. A first-time buyer faces high taxes on labour and high taxes on housing savings. How is an ordinary worker's salary supposed to be sufficient for your own home?
i-CrsB5NxF2Tdo8bNUmhXK2y	Mr President, I would like to I thank Jakob Olofsgård for the question. It is true, as the honourable Member notes, that we have just received a proposal to facilitate entry into the purchased housing market for first-time buyers. What was presented was a proposal for the design of a start-up loan that could reduce savings by up to one third for those who are going to enter the purchased housing market. The reason we set up the investigation was precisely as Jakob Olofsgård points out, namely that house prices have increased in a way that makes it difficult for people without large income or rich parents to enter the purchased housing market. As regards the question of a beneficial housing saving, the investigation also looked at this issue and concluded that it would cost the state SEK 11 billion with a beneficial housing saving that would have half the impact of the start-up loan proposed by the investigation. It was also noted that the distribution policy profile of such a proposal would be very distorted. Both of these proposals are now being consulted, both the start-up loan proposal and the proposal for a housing saving.
i-4ucwtEugYR4mif9azGy2qP	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. Even if we agree on some things, this must be done with more housing savings. It'll still be hard. With regard to the tightening up of the amortisation requirement, the person who saves up for the operation and goes to the bank can still get no. The stricter amortisation requirement means that in Greater Stockholm you have to have a monthly salary of 35 000. What young first-time buyer does that pay? Will only the rich be able to live in our cities?
i-Gp1sCrgzmW7SAMMCgwBF6o	Mr President, I would like to The investigation that proposed the start-up loan has specifically looked at how to make it easier for a group that is creditworthy to enter the purchased housing market more easily. In addition, we have had an investigation that has looked at how to make it easier for groups that find it difficult to ask for suitable housing in the leased market. This has also just been referred to. It should be borne in mind that those with the weakest incomes may often call for rented accommodation in our big cities. Unfortunately, a majority at risk has removed the investment aid that we had introduced in order to build more cheap rentals that ordinary people could more easily demand.
i-LcYkNFD5s3h2PAeqCpoJS3	Mr President, I would like to One of Sweden's largest and most ancient companies, Ericsson, is currently being investigated for bribery against the terror cult IS. The Board of Directors and the CEO of Ericsson were denied discharge at the Annual General Meeting but were still re-elected. Of course, the legal process around this should take its course, and neither the government nor the parliament should of course interfere with it. But no matter how it progresses, this will have other effects. Confidence in Sweden and Swedish companies is at risk of being damaged overall, which worries me and – I believe – also Ardalan Shekarabi. I would therefore like to ask whether the Socialist Government will follow up on what has happened about this and consider measures to ensure that it does not happen again.
i-3BJCnmmhK5BzDRGP6WwfoQ	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the question, Rasmus Ling! This concerns an investigation into the practice of public authority against individuals, and the government is not, of course, allowed to comment on the individual case. Of course, however, we will follow developments in the fight against corruption in general. We are one of the countries in the world that has a tradition of managing well, combating and preventing corruption and maintaining trust in our public institutions. But experts have also talked on several occasions about the need to step up work in the fight against corruption in business, for example, in connection with big business. This is an issue that the government has been working on in several different contexts, not least with regard to the implementation of the Swedish Agenda 2030 process, that is, the UN Sustainable Development Goals. This, of course, should be taken very seriously. It is not just a matter of fundamental importance, but of Sweden's reputation and our role internationally in standing up for sustainable business.
i-5UNcA9cGoTpL8k3cUY5GR6	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for your answer. I think that many people are also questioning the fact that a board is denied discharge because of such an exceptional matter but is still being re-elected. It is no small matter not to receive discharge. The existing Companies Act is available, but the Government should analyse this in depth and take it seriously – and consider whether changes are needed in the future.
i-SYkNtt1wFqTgJKx8o4ekMy	Mr President, I would like to Of course, we need to follow developments in general with regard to the issues raised by Rasmus Ling, but the government should of course have no views on issues relating to an individual limited liability company and what decisions the shareholders have made in that company.
i-K26MDKdXLLyf939uzh7mMJ	Mr President, I would like to As we have heard in this House today, segregation is one of the biggest problems we have in our country. Breaking it is the key to breaking the gangs. Building new ones in an area means creating hope there. Construction cranes create a belief in the future. The investment support has, among other things, in my municipality of residence Helsingborg, in the Drottninghög district, meant that 200 apartments are built in an area where it has not previously been built for 40 years. It shows somewhere the power of investment support and housing policy to break the segregation and break the gangs. In light of this, could the Government say anything about the importance of investment aid for our country?
i-FNoYkhymFm1GykjruJcGNA	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the question, Ola Möller! Next week it's May Day, and right now Ola Möller might be doing just like me and looking over the old first-May speeches. In 2014, I spoke in Avesta, and then I said something like this – after eight years with a moderate government: We would have to build 40,000 homes a year, but new production is today at 20,000. Since the right took over, construction has decreased by 74 per cent. It is a conscious policy; it is right-wing policy. Today, a little over eight years later... maybe I'm counting wrong... I'm a minister of housing. This year we will begin the construction of over 60 000 homes. This is the result of a conscious government policy, where investment support has been a key element. Investment aid has been granted for the construction of over 50 000 homes in our country. There are many homes that would not have been built otherwise, and if they had been built, they would have been built with high rent so that ordinary people would have had more difficulty in asking for them. This is a fundamental part of the housing policy which now means that we are dealing with the lack of housing that the previous government has built up.
i-RvgahtzYquvuf5heYHbcbK	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. It is amazing that we have so far-sighted politicians in our party who can see the future. I'm glad! I would therefore like to ask the Government to provide more predictions of what is needed to break the segregation of our great country through housing policy.
i-3k1VcstAFjHVUChvGa6Wwz	Mr President, I would like to Now it was other forward-looking people in my party who made sure that we introduced investment aid, but it is clear that an active housing policy is important to break the segregation. Me and Anders Ygeman have had talks with municipal commissioners, plan managers and with the commons in municipalities around the country about the housing segregation. Three concrete requests that always recur are the reintroduction of investment aid, of course, but also a new and modern pre-purchase law and that one should look at how the state interest claims can be coordinated and reduced in order to make more land available for construction. All these questions we are now looking at and will come back to.
i-PcEKKazdD31pDac5rfUzST	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister of Social Security Ardalan Shekarabi. The Social Democrats repeatedly show that contributions are more important than work. After all, the principle of living income is one of the most important foundations of the Swedish pension reform, i.e. that it is all the money that is paid in while you are working that will give you a pension. In its information, the Pensions Authority emphasises the importance of each year of work for the pension, in particular for those aged 60 or over. Just working one more year has quite a big impact on your pension for the rest of your life. The guarantee premium means that the job impact can be very small for significant groups, especially for low-income earners. For some people, the pension may even be lower if they work another year – everything according to the Swedish Pension Agency. This means that those who have worked little or not at all can get more in their wallet than those who have actually worked. This is deeply unfair.
i-BKhvz6xFHr7fvNajLJGu9s	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for this important question about pensions, Katarina Brännström! A pound of tomatoes now costs between $60 and $70. A package of coffee costs somewhere between $2 and $2.50. It will be paid for by our pensioners who have a low pension. The lowest level we offer our pensioners today, if they have lived in Sweden for 40 years, is 8 779 SEK before tax. It is a shame, Mr President, that we do not have a higher level of pensions. It is a disgrace that we have accepted and tolerated the phenomenon of poor pensioners in one of the richest countries in the world. The government has just put forward a proposal at Parliament's table to increase the pensions of pensioners with the lowest pensions. These are 1 million Swedish pensioners and 1 000 SEK tax-free each month from August. This is an obligation we have towards our pensioners. Those who will be covered by this are women of welfare; it is those who have the lowest pensions. It's time to raise your pensions.
i-B7TK4zU2ThvPDViLXsdPVN	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Minister of Culture. This weekend we have seen terrible scenes from violent riots in several cities around Sweden. Rootless youth gangs and thugs, but also adults, women and children, have participated in the senseless attacks on the police and society. Excessive immigration in recent years has led to a lack of integration. Integration is A and O for a functioning society and for a functioning Sweden. As a new citizen of a country, learning how it works in that country, what laws and regulations exist, how society is built and how the culture of that country – in this case Sweden – works. The Minister for Culture and many others find it difficult to admit that Swedish culture exists.
i-Q2qg1G1uahw2qDnnRP5P6K	Mr President, I would like to This is a very important issue. The riots and the violence we have seen in recent days are unacceptable. Above all, I am thinking of the police, who have suffered violence, and all the people who live in these areas and who have suffered the violence of a small minority of criminals. The absolute majority of these areas want to live their lives in peace and quiet. Society will take a strong stand against crime. Bo Broman's question was about the culture in Sweden and how we will make it possible for those who come to Sweden to understand the culture here. Among other things, we will have open libraries and ensure that there is a strong cultural school in the schools. These are some of the proposals we have put forward to teach culture in Sweden.
i-BQq7Rjr6oFZKwytxgGybzm	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Minister of Housing. Last week, the Central Statistical Office presented several scenarios of population development. In one of them, the population was expected to increase by 1.7 million to 2040. It cannot be ruled out that Russia's war in Ukraine will be prolonged, and whatever it is, it will take a very long time for those who have managed to get out to return to their own homes. It is therefore not unlikely that SCB's most challenged scenario will become a reality and that Sweden's population in 2040 is a bit over 12 million. With low housing and housing shortages, we face a huge challenge. Although construction has increased slightly recently – with and without investment aid – it will not be enough. In what way must the housing market be reformed to achieve both increased construction and mobility that frees up homes for people who have fled their homes and will not be able to return in the foreseeable future?
i-JtoDeTUfK9cmKHQUZ1Rrnj	Mr President, I would like to I thank Ola Johansson for the question. That's a very broad question. However, whatever the projections for population growth in Sweden, it is important that we manage to maintain the historically high build-up rate that we have today, as has been mentioned in connection with previous interpellations. Then it would be good if we could also increase the pace of construction if it were needed to take, for example, the height of a high reception from Ukraine. With regard to Ukraine and the people fleeing the terrible war that is taking place there in front of our eyes, we have now acted in the residential area in order to ensure that there are no obstacles to organising accommodation for arrivals and to ensure that we have temporary accommodation in place to receive people fleeing. But it is clear: Depending on how this development continues, how the conflict develops, how and to what extent people flee and to what extent they come to Sweden, the Government and the Riksdag may need to take further steps to meet a great deal of reception, if that is the case.
i-YQoePaDLB6weZfgUSJgXQe	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Minister of Housing. Today we have a housing market that is only one market and no housing. We see transformations and sales of commons. Rental properties are bought, renovated and sold at a higher rate than used cars by venture capital companies, and the rents are raised at the same rate. One in three municipal rentals is gone in Stockholm, while the need for rental apartments is greater than ever. Recent reports show that 140 000 homes in the million-dollar programme are in urgent need of renovation. Instead, in cases where bourgeois ideology is not behind sales, costly renovations force companies to sell housing. It is time for politics to take responsibility. The Left Party wants once and for all to stop the sale of the commons and invest in the rehabilitation and energy efficiency of, among other things, the million-dollar programme.
i-Szb8EMzi8RFKn8yJnfFJEo	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the extremely relevant question. I think that Momodou Malcolm Jallow and I share the outrage when we can read about the consequences that the transformation journey that has been made in municipalities around Sweden – and perhaps the worst here in Stockholm – has had for the rental market. Common assets have been cleared. Cheap rentals have been converted into attractive addresses, which, of course, has driven segregation. These are partly replaced by new production, but it is new production outside the inner city to high rents that ordinary people find difficult to demand. This drives the segregation of housing and is, of course, deeply inappropriate and a policy driven by bourgeois ideology. It is of course as Momodou Malcolm Jallow says: You have to renovate the million-dollar program around Sweden. This is an emergency. After all, we introduced support for the energy efficiency of multi-detached buildings, which could be used for, among other things, this, which disappeared in the opposition amending budget last autumn.
i-SpQehyAvUkgAsQ5fJewHo2	Mr President, I would like to Being a forest owner in Sweden today is certainly not easy. There have been many tours around how the authority says it interprets the Species and Habitats Directive and the Birds Directive in combination with the Species Protection Regulation. The sum will be that the forest owner will be an expert on all species of birds present in the landowner's forest before it is up to date with felling. However, the government issued a press release stating that the government has now commissioned the relevant authorities to develop a sustainable strategy on this issue. The directive is due to be completed by 30 September next year. You heard correctly – next year it will be ready! My question to the Minister for Rural Development is: how will all the forest owners who planned logging their forest now do? Is the answer that they have to wait a year and a half before they can get an answer? We need a government that resolves this issue urgently and resolutely.
i-8HmLdnt39ArzQ6nyQJDkYM	Mr President, I would like to I thank the honourable Member for the question. This is an important issue. With the recent EU rulings, there has been a great deal of uncertainty about what applies in Swedish forestry, what consideration to take and what preparedness to keep. With this, the government has also acted. The Minister for Climate and Environment has announced that she sees this in several steps. The first step is about how to change the regulation that the government itself can decide on in order to give, in the second step, as Magnus Oscarsson said, a mandate to review the environmental code in the longer term, so that it will also be sustainable in the future.
i-QL9Hm3KHStqXuVFemCYryh	Mr President, I would like to I put my question to Minister Sätherberg. The war in Ukraine risks having a major impact on food production in Europe and Sweden. It is a very worrying economic situation for the country's farmers. The prices of inputs such as diesel, electricity, animal feed and chemical fertilisers have skyrocketed. We need to give our Swedish farmers better opportunities to handle this difficult situation and continue to help strengthen Swedish food production.
i-LSEh8WVeTTraxKP2LkZwNj	Mr President, I would like to I thank Suzanne Svensson for an important question. Swedish agriculture is important, and just as Suzanne Svensson says, Sweden's livelihood is hugely important. There is a large part of Swedish food production that we want to increase. There is a great consensus here in the Swedish Parliament that we want to increase Swedish food production. That is why we also have action plans in the food strategy, for example, where we spend 200 million a year to ensure the long-term. We have also sent Sweden's Common Agricultural Strategic Plan to the EU. We'll get answers soon. It's about 64 billion from 2023. In the short term, we announced in the spring change budget that was presented the other day an aid of 1.1 billion to Swedish agriculture. We are also looking at the proposals that have come from the European Union. For example, we have decided on the set-aside and storage of pigs.
i-LjMWvfsTDBC5tKCBRHfdCs	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Shekarabi. We are currently seeing things falling that the Swede has been used to working and almost taken for granted. Lack of security worries. Getting a passport seems to have been the most impossible. The infant parent who recently welcomed a new family member is prevented from travelling. It was simply not possible to take more responsibility and plan more for birth in good time. However, my question boils down to the possibility for young people – we see the whole gallery full – to take a long-awaited driving licence and the lack of driving times. Completed theoretical tests expire before there are run-up times, despite the decision to extend the validity period. This isn't good enough. It is bad in terms of both the ability to trust society and the ability to influence, make decisions and take an important step towards making themselves employable, especially in rural areas without public transport worthy of the name.
i-9mjMQ8jYHdfvchyz1A4TSx	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Ann-Sofie for a very important question. This concerns one of the important challenges ahead, namely to increase the efficiency of Swedish administration. We have an administration that is highly efficient, but there are, of course, parts where the burden is very great and we have longer waiting times that affect our citizens. The ambition of the government and parliament must be to ensure that our administrative authorities serve our citizens in the best possible way. The government has taken a number of measures in the area of driving licences, not least with regard to the possibility of taking student loans, so that people are given the opportunity to take a driving licence regardless of financial conditions. It is very important to be able to enter the labour market. But then, of course, driving must also work. This is an issue the government is focusing on. Of course, we will work to ensure that the authorities do what is necessary to ensure that our citizens get the best service possible.
i-T5koEP1cBnswazjcD5BJuZ	Mr President, I would like to My question also goes to Minister Ardalan Shekarabi. The Government, with the support of the Left Party, has put forward a proposal for a guarantee supplement for those with the lowest pensions. An increase in pensions is, of course, welcome and necessary. However, the wording of the proposal has been criticised by, among other things, the Pensions Authority, as it departs from and complicates the current pension system, significantly reduces the distance of respect and entails higher administrative costs than if the guarantee pension had been increased. It is presented as the government being forced to withdraw from the current pension scheme and the Pensions Group and to produce this guarantee supplement because there was no support in the Pensions Group. I have asked this question before to the Government, but I have not yet been able to clarify this: has the Minister for Social Security, before the proposal on the guarantee supplement was drawn up, raised the question in the Pensions Group to increase the guarantee pension instead?
i-76gjjEDiRr3N1aQDCn4mbC	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Julia for the question. The need to raise pensions is indeed urgent. The Social Democrats as a party have pushed the issue in the Pensions Group to raise pensions. Our proposal is to increase the contribution to the pension system, so that we increase the contributions to the pension system. So far, it has not really been possible to reach agreement in the Pensions Group, which includes a number of parties. As far as we are concerned, it is important that there are pension increases here and now for those who have the worst economy, for those pensioners who are most vulnerable at the moment. That is why we have tabled a proposal at Parliament's table for a guarantee supplement from August onwards. We have also been very clear that we are prepared to incorporate the guarantee supplement into the pension system and into the guarantee pension if there is support for this. The important thing is that we must not postpone the increase in pensions. It is now our pensioners will buy tomatoes for SEK 60 and coffee for SEK 45 per package. We need to raise pensions right now. Ideally, we should bring forward the increase in pensions if possible, so that our pensioners do not get hurt.
i-DifFGQfnT2QUdeiXB4qjRF	Mr President, I would like to I know that Johan Danielsson takes the problems of working life crime seriously. But when it comes to confidentiality barriers between authorities, one has only chosen to set up an investigation. How long will it take before the government submits proposals for changes to the Riksdag's table? Another problem, Mr President, is all subcontracting. I or maybe another public actor can choose to hire Lisa's painting, because we know she has a collective agreement. In fact, though, Lisa may hire several subcontractors that have no control whatsoever. Then I wonder: When will the Government limit how many subcontractors can be found in public procurement?
i-Q9YVKVRi4graTZ1Y49k7s1	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. It is true that the fight against the growing crime of working life is a priority, not just for me but for the whole government. With regard to the issue of confidentiality barriers, it is true that we have an investigation that will be completed by the summer. In the meantime, however, we have also given the authorities working in the fight against labour crime a mandate to develop methodological support to ensure that the space available under current legislation is exploited as far as possible pending the legislative change that is to come. The purpose of the investigation and the government's view is to remove the unjustified confidentiality barriers that exist. We also recently added to the Swedish Work Environment Authority the regulation that makes it possible – and even an obligation – to break the confidentiality and share data in the fight against organised crime that is at the end of the spectrum of crimes that we call working life crime. Then it is quite clear that the further down the chain of subcontractors, the more crime there is. In the end, it's all pitch black. This is an issue that I and the Minister of Civil Affairs are looking at together in the context of public procurement.
i-BBqhQ4dDQmGLwz51zgezTx	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask my question to Minister of Culture Jeanette Gustafsdotter. We have three state-owned casinos under the name Casino Cosmopol. They work on the basis of the new gaming law with a duty of care. They register the players and how they play. But then there's a gap in the law. It applies to restaurant casinos, which work under completely different conditions. The Gaming Inspectorate has granted an exemption from registration in respect of restaurant casinos.
i-CR6LbmwBTwZMeMgpaU23p9	Mr President, I would like to I thank Roland Utbolt for the question, to which I reply because gambling policy falls within my remit. We work continuously to review the gaming market and ensure that we have legislation that provides the best possible protection to Swedish gaming consumers. We know that the gambling market is associated with a number of risks for vulnerable consumers. A relatively large proportion of the population is vulnerable to gambling abuse. Therefore, I will take this question with me and look at how the regulation affects the vulnerability of Swedish gaming consumers. As far as the application of the law is concerned, I can say that the Gaming Inspectorate is obviously an independent authority. I have no point of view on that. On the other hand, we must be constantly prepared to adjust gambling legislation when the need arises. This is one of the questions we have to take with us. Thank you for the question and I will come back to you.
i-UvQsKPvaTBzWG7ZRsj8HQf	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Ardalan Shekarabi and concerns the withdrawal. An equal society is not created by itself, but is the product of urgent political work. However, the Karen deduction contributes to the opposite, an unequal society. It is a deduction that hits the workers who cannot work from home and have the lowest wages. It also increases the presence of sick people and thus the spread of infection. It is not likely to be economically viable and justified to have a withdrawal from the scheme. No other Nordic country has a withdrawal, and it works excellently in these countries. LO associations have long pointed to the injustice of the withdrawal, and this week Kommunal handed over a petition of 130 000 signatures to the Government claiming that the withdrawal should be abolished. Does the Government share this view?
i-75cpk9PnWw4uyRERotkLss	Mr President, I would like to I thank Alexander Ojanne for this incredibly important question about the safety of a large part of our employees. I received the petition from the trade union Kommunal, and it is clear that this is an issue that arouses a great deal of commitment in the workplace, not least among those who lack power over the workplace and working time and have to appear at work, i.e. those who suffer from the current deductions. We have launched a complete review of the withdrawal of the carer with very open directives for the investigator to look at how we can create a fairer system in which we remove the inequality that exists between different professions. In this study, we will also take note of the Nordic experience as we have Nordic countries that have no withdrawals for employees. We will, of course, also study the experience of the withdrawal compensation introduced during the pandemic. The Government's objective is to reform this system in order to create a more secure and fairer system.
i-SndcCKENjAhMzLsvB9Q3GJ	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Deputy Minister for Labour. The government has huge challenges in terms of health and safety policy. 41 people died in their workplaces in 2021, and the government's so-called zero vision has certainly not been reached. Occupational diseases among women in the public sector in particular have also increased dramatically. One in three women had been on sick leave in the last 12 months, and this was before the pandemic. The government announced this week that 500 million will be dedicated to, among other things, hiring more nurses and improving the working environment in healthcare. The Medical Association is critical and says that the investment in a few months is too short-term, and it is called the bet for press release money.
i-MU6yBb7EuVDVDexYesLkmj	Mr President, I would like to The fact that people are still killed at their jobs in Sweden is, of course, totally unacceptable, and that is why we have introduced a zero vision for fatal accidents. The social partners, in particular trade unions and safety representatives, play an important role in overcoming fatal accidents at work, and so the government proposed to extend the access rights of regional safety representatives to workplaces just under two years ago. Unfortunately, we did not get support for this here in Parliament. Among other things, the Moderates voted against this. That is why trade unions today do not have access to precisely those workplaces where the working environment is probably the worst, and that is problematic. But now we've set up an investigation and we're going to come back. One can of course discuss how much public sector contributions are needed to improve the working environment for women. We have contributed over 27 billion to state subsidies, 22 billion of which are permanent and should also be used by moderate-led regions to improve the working environment.
i-HghVfbYrjWJzibcD2jnCVD	Mr President, I would like to Since the new year, Sweden's vehicle owners have had to pay the world's highest diesel prices as a result of the reduction obligation. On top of that, the government proposes a new means of transport-neutral travel deduction with a distance limit of 80 km one-way. In our elongated country, many people depend on the car for everyday life to work, and it is not uncommon for people to have ten miles or more to do their jobs. How can they afford not to quit? Companies and businesses are now witnessing a decline in skills supply, as people turn down jobs they feel they cannot afford to commute to. Companies' recruitment areas have been drastically reduced. My question to Rural Minister Sätherberg is therefore: How will entrepreneurship and regional growth be stimulated in all parts of Sweden under these conditions?
i-AXTAg4uEUNGjuwCCdM5iFo	Mr President, I would like to Russia's invasion of Ukraine has really created problems for Sweden, but the worst is of course in Ukraine. The prices of inputs have increased enormously, making it difficult and tough. That is why, in its spring amending budget, the government has proposed a diesel tax reduction of 1.80 at the pump, as we politicians say. The new travel allowance is also very good, I think. In the former there was time gain, which benefited the metropolitan regions. The new is a distance-based deduction, which is much better for those of us who live in rural and rural areas.
i-7y8afDPwwNqGkZNTT6Lx2d	Mr President, I would like to In February, I asked the Minister for Social Security whether the government will keep its promise to take measures to compensate the families affected by deteriorating conditions when the nursing allowance was introduced. The Government replied: The Government has taken this very seriously, and we also asked the Social Security Inspection to follow closely the Swedish Social Insurance Agency's application of law. The inspection has now presented its analysis. We are studying this carefully and are prepared to act in order for our citizens to have the financial security they deserve. We have these systems in place to support citizens in need of support. It was very clear from the government and parliament that the amendment of the law would not mean a more restrictive approach. We will keep this promise.
i-LAxUt2WmkXRqSzvYtCC5yg	Mr President, I would like to I thank Pia Steensland for the issue and for the commitment to some of our most vulnerable citizens. The government has, among other things, introduced transitional rules to protect those people who are at risk of falling between the seats when a new regulatory framework comes into force. We continue to engage in a dialogue with the Social Insurance Agency and, of course, we have also engaged in a dialogue with the Social Insurance Inspection to understand the analysis made there. Let me emphasise once again that we are prepared to take legislative action if necessary. However, it is too early to decide because it has not been possible to see whether there are legislative problems standing in the way. We will have to await the development of the application of the law. I will continue to keep Parliament informed on this issue if a change of law is required, because we must protect our citizens in this area.
i-S2ShQ1sMPfnr6zxtU3hAt7	Mr President, I would like to Tyrbota is a very small sister organization for PRO. The association PRO Global in Sweden has contact with them and received a message from them the other day. There are, or perhaps there were, 236 retirement homes in Ukraine. Many of them lie in the territories occupied by Russians or in the zones of war. They are therefore blocked and have no delivery of food, medicines and hygiene items. Tyrbota can only sometimes support them with money so that they can buy food from local farmers. This is what they write in the message: This is our biggest problem and our main mission – to save these very vulnerable people. They're old, and many of them are dementia. We can't let them starve.
i-7gbjuA6sLB5sgi67cmTV1s	Mr President, I would like to I thank Elsemarie Bjellqvist for the question. This is one of the consequences of Putin's tyranny and what is happening to the people of Ukraine. We often naturally focus on children and families with children who are affected by the Russian aggression war, but there is also another dimension, of course: the elderly. They are not as mobile and in some cases lack the conditions to leave the country. This question is addressed by the European Union. I have talked with Ylva Johansson about the issue of the elderly Ukrainians who are victims of the war and who are on the run. Sweden is one of the countries that provides the greatest support to both the multilateral organisations that are assisting the people of Ukraine with help right now and to Ukraine directly. We intend, of course, to continue to do this in order to provide support to the people of Ukraine and the elderly of Ukraine.
i-5knLZp5Z3VjxKjf2VYHZi5	Mr President, I would like to The vast majority of Sweden's population claim to want to live in small houses, such as villas and terraced houses. According to studies made, it is around 70%. However, throughout the time that the government has been in power, the proportion of small houses built has been very low. It is the lowest of all Nordic countries and much lower than the EU average, where 40% of new buildings are small houses. In Sweden, the proportion of newly built houses is only about 20 per cent. Although it has gone up a little over the past year, it is far from what is needed. Why do the government and Johan Danielsson not prioritise to make it easier to build small houses so that moving chains can get started and more people can live as they say they want?
i-LckY1MAygc2vUZnGPBoaEC	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mikael Eskilandersson, for the question. It is true that many people want to live in a small house. I moved to a small house myself when we had our second child. But you should not fool yourself with how much of what is being built is small houses. The number of small houses built has increased during the time the government has been in power from about 8 000 small houses per year to now nearly 12 000 small houses per year. The only thing I have encountered as a policy in parliament that the opposition has pushed through since I took office is to stop investment support for rental rights. It is true that if we build fewer rental apartments there will be a larger proportion of small houses. But that does not solve the housing shortage in Sweden. That is what the voters have before them this autumn. It is either a moderate and Swedish democratic government that will make sure to increase the share of small-scale houses by reducing the construction of rental rights or a Social Democratic government that wants more tenant-ownership rights, more small-scale houses and more rental rights.
i-QRgYpoMVg4A6bhe83idXk8	Mr President, I would like to The material called About Sweden that will explain to new arrivals how Sweden works was updated recently. However, despite the fact that freedom of expression is fundamental in our country, this point is only addressed in summary terms in the material. Then remember that there is a huge difference compared to how things work in many of the countries of origin from which immigrants come. There is no explanation of the purpose of freedom of expression. There's no explanation for how far it goes. There is, above all, no explanation of how the relationship between religion and freedom of expression works in Sweden. Does Ardalan Shekarabi think that it is a mistake not to explain to newcomers at a very early stage that freedom of expression in Sweden means that one must accept that some people have views that one does not like and that one absolutely must not use violence to protest that someone, for example, desecrates what one perceives as a religious text? Should it be made clear?
i-LXwUNszjgoMBDgqytCeQ4Z	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ludvig Aspling, for the important question! There is no doubt that we must be incredibly clear about the rights and freedoms enshrined in our constitution. It must be an important part of the introduction of new arrivals. That is what our society is built on. Swedish freedom of expression and press freedom have a long history and have a special position in the Swedish legal system. Therefore, we must also be careful that people who move to Sweden learn about what the right regulates, how it is protected and what borders there are for protests in our country. It must be extremely clear. This is an issue that definitely needs to be addressed. All reinforcements of introduction and focus on knowledge for newcomers is a gain for society and for those people who move to Sweden. It must work in a really good way for integration to work. It should be really clear what rights and obligations people have in our country and what is expected of new residents in Sweden, of course.
i-Epi9vBfh2XyMsk6UVSAg2J	Mr President, I would like to Last autumn, a debate article was written in Svenska Dagbladet, signed by the chairman of Sweden's obstetrician, the chairman of all Sweden's midwives and also by Hans Linde, chairman of RFSU and not completely unfamiliar in this Chamber. The conclusion of that article was that the abortion legislation of the 1970s had to be re-established. Today, 96% of abortions are medical abortions. They should be able to be done in the home of the women who so choose. This is important for a number of reasons. It means much more security for the woman to be able to start the medical abortion at home. That means she doesn't have to be transported to and from the hospital. Finally, and this is perhaps not least important, it does not take important resources from health care for something that is just based on legislation from the 1970s. Mr President, I would like to When the article arrived, Ekot made a follow-up, they asked all parties' representatives in the Social Committee how they viewed this. The Moderates, the Center Party, the Liberals, the Left Party, also the Social Democrats, the Environmental Party and the Swedish Democrats said that here we should make sure to change the legislation. It doesn't make sense for it to be like this. Now we heard today that the Swedish Democrats have apparently changed foot. But what surprises me is that today, when we decide on this, the Left Party chooses not to support the reservations of the Moderates, the Center Party and the Liberals. I think we should move from words to deeds. But one thing in the media and in debates, when it comes to the House, is to press the right button. My question to Karin Rågsjö is: Why does the Left Party not stand by its word on this issue and do what it can to initiate the change in law?
i-D9ENYureKQdSHvPYD7LGy1	Mr President, I would like to This is a very important question. The entire abortion legislation is very important. We thought the reservation was a little basic. We are currently writing about how we want to design it in a good way. One must also have an investigation into the context of this. When you look around the country, the profession is already doing this. It is quite possible for you to get your tablet as a woman, go home and have your abortion. It is already going on around Sweden. What we want to see is an investigation into whether there are consequences. I don't know. I'm a layman. I think this should be done, but you should have an investigation as a basis. Mr President, I would like to Unlike the honourable Member, I am not a doctor. I'm a Member of Parliament and a socionomist. Now there have been several articles. There's a lot of knowledge. Of course, it would be good if we could gather it together and make it a bit more basic, that others who know the question are investigating this and that we then had to vote on it. I think that would have been very good. I myself sit on the Justice Council, which currently does not have many meetings, Mr President. Here we follow the question of late abortions and the entire legislation on abortion. The important thing is to secure the entire legislation on abortion, but also, of course, to provide the conditions for women to do their abortions at home. But – and I am still a layman, Mr President – it must also be ensured that the woman is not alone when she makes the abortion at home. All these things you have to look at. Therefore, I think it would be very good if you did a small inquiry about this before we clubs things here in Parliament. I am still behind what I said in Ekott, and we are looking at the issue in a slightly larger context.
i-F2VK8g9GjHdsUCeqKEY4UE	Mr President, I would like to Basically, this is a political position. Do you want the law to be changed to allow the medical abortion to start at home or not? It is strictly regulated today. The proposal – which is now, unfortunately, a reservation and not something that the majority supports – is that we should address an announcement to the government to set up an investigation to make the change in law. So we have not proposed sharp legislation here and now, but a declaration on an investigation of abortion legislation that would allow the initiation of medical abortions at home. It is currently not allowed under Swedish law. This is what the Left Party is saying no to – to strongly urge the government to take the first step in this. That's what's so surprising. Of course, there must always be an investigation before it finally lands a bill on Parliament's table; I think everyone understands that. But the first step in this is that we from Parliament clearly state that this must happen. I am disappointed and surprised that the Left Party is not prepared to call on the government to start the legislative work to make this change. It is therefore something that all Sweden's obstetricians, all midwives and also RSFU under the leadership of Hans Linde have demanded of us politicians. Today you have the chance to vote in favour of the reservations of the Moderates, Liberals and the Center Party. I very much hope that the Left Party will reconsider and not hook arms with the Swedish Democrats and Christian Democrats on the issue of Swedish abortion legislation and that it must be changed.
i-84d96DTBujNWGoJAP1dMCR	Mr President, I would like to Now I think the honourable Member took a grip on me which is deeply worrying. It sounds to me, Mr President, from the honourable Member almost as if I were to question Swedish abortion rights. That kind of argumentation and the way in which questions are raised, I think, is deeply indecent, and I did not actually expect that from the Center. You do not have to hook arms with the Swedish Democrats when it comes to signing the reservation. That's gonna be amazing. Does the President not think so, and does the honourable Member not think so? I think we need to look at abortion legislation. The thing is, this is already happening in the regions. It's just for the honourable Member to google and see it. I suggest that the honourable Member sit down quietly on his bench and google on this. Then there will come up a number of regions and a number of places that perform abortion where you get your tablet. You get to meet a midwife who might tell you exactly what you need to do. Assigning that we do not sign this to the fact that we hook arms with Swedish democrats and Christian Democrats and would be some kind of anti-abortionist – that is deeply indecent, the honourable Member.
i-ETJxoebteRNK43TQ4p89Hv	Mr President, I would like to I'd like to apologize in advance if I'm a little slurred. I'm diabetic and I have a little too low blood sugar. I have taken some glucose, so I hope that I will be able to be sharp against Mr Rågsjö in spite of that. This will be a change of line on the same theme as the change of line just now between Mr Rågsjö and Mr Anders W Jonsson, namely on the issue of abortion. I am delighted that earlier I received such strong support from Member Jonsson for the Moderates' proposal that we need to modernise Swedish abortion legislation so that it really becomes legal with medical abortion. It may seem that the debate is going a little rough and that Anders W Jonsson's argument comes back. On one point, however, I am very pleased that we can continue this debate, because it is obviously the case that Mr Rågsjö is not up to date with what the law actually says. Mr Rågsjö said that it is already home abortions and that this is something that the regions are blessing. That is not the case at all. The medical abortion done in 90 percent of cases consists of taking two pills. The first pill must be taken in a hospital under the supervision of a healthcare professional. On this point, the Swedish abortion law is crystal clear. That is what we want to change, and that is what Karin Rågsjö has said that she and the Left Party also want but that she now does not stand up for. I would be happy to repeat the question from the previous change of line. Why do the Left Party and Karin Rågsjö not support the Moderates' proposal to start a change to what has now become an obsolete Swedish abortion law?
i-SmVfSxsqeMpGwhAsbaoe4v	Mr President, I would like to Mr Hultberg! Abortion at home can be considered. You get the pills from a midwife, and you go home. Isn't that right? Well, I can read if Hultberg wants to hear: You get a pill. Continued treatment at home 24 – 72 hours later, take the rest of the treatment yourself. It says here that you do it at home. Mr Hultberg! We're gonna take a look at this. We may have misunderstood the reservation. We may have misunderstood something else. Of course, women should be able to do their abortions at home. The thing is, you have to make a kind of medical assessment of the woman. Can she get sick from this, get other bleedings and so on? She must also have a person with her at home. I don't think that's weird. Mr President, I would like to Johan Hultberg! We have not voted on this today. Maybe that's a good thing. Maybe we had the luck, or the bad luck – whatever! We will look further at this and read your whole exercise to see what it means. However, we still believe that women who choose to have an abortion at home must have some kind of medical supervision from a person at home with them. It's important. Perhaps you need to investigate this, or maybe practice can work that way in the regions. Perhaps you can rewrite the guidelines, for example, and make some improvements in them. You should be able to do that.
i-RsbZ2S7jmC1Hg11ggMRRap	Mr President, I would like to In his speech earlier, Mr Rågsjö stated that it is the regions that shape and govern Swedish health care. It's true in large parts. But the regions must relate to Swedish legislation, and Swedish abortion legislation dates from 1974. It came into force in 1975, and it has become obsolete. In fact, it explicitly states that an abortion or discontinuation of pregnancy... is to take place in a public hospital or in another medical establishment approved by the Health and Welfare Inspection. This means that it is not possible to carry out a full abortion according to the law. That's what we want to change. And it's not just the Moderates who want to do it. All parties in the Swedish parliament except the Christian Democrats have previously said that they support this. That's why I'm so surprised today. We have a report in which we have a reservation. I thought we were going to propose an announcement. It goes without saying that these questions need to be investigated, Mr Rågsjö. We cannot change the legislation here. As I said, it is a declaration to the government that the issue should be reviewed. That's what the reservation is about. It is great that we have not voted today. I hope that Mr Rågsjö will reconsider his position and that we will have the support of the Left Party in the vote on Wednesday. This is a change that I think we should be able to agree on. It is requested by Sweden's women, and many with solid medical knowledge of the subject have argued for it. It is about RFSU, the Swedish Midwife Association and the Health Association. They all call for this legislative change. We Moderates also think that we should give midwives a delegation to prescribe the abortion pills. They don't today. Only doctors have that prescription right.
i-NutKYXQtwVfyRe7u8HRjZs	Mr President, I would like to Johan Hultberg! I get a little boring here; I'll read what it says. Continued treatment at home... You have brought 6 uterine-constricting tablets. I don't read the name of the pills. You start by bringing in and so on. This is taken from the region. Of course we'll be watching this. Then we may reconsider. I don't say "bu" or "ba" or "ba" or "ba" or "ba" or "ba" or "ba" or "ba" or "ba" or I think we should also look at the context of abortion legislation, so that we do not open up to constant changes. We shall have modern abortion legislation, but we shall not have an abortion law that in any way opens up to anything but modern. If we change this, maybe it's a good thing. There is also a practice. It needs to be examined how this practice works today. To say that abortions are not going on, I find it a little strange, because it is already going on. But perhaps it is good if there is an investigation, that there are guidelines and that this is put into effect in 21 regions. We're gonna look at it one more time.
i-URFDqs7ay5GTQzaCrfcTKG	Mr President, I would like to Actually, what we need from health care is quite basic. We need to get medical attention when we need it. We need to meet people who know about us, about our medical history, and about what we might suffer from. So we are talking about people who have time for us. Today a lot of this falls. There's no such thing as knowledge. We don't get care in time and so on. It's not because someone wants it to be that way. Mr President, I would like to Many of the health care problems boil down to working conditions. Not one of our decisions here in Parliament or a single decision in the regions can be implemented without knowledgeable and committed employees who are happy and want to stay. It's as simple as that. Therefore, we stand here today and see that although Swedish healthcare is world-class in many ways, we also have a situation where patients find it difficult to get time at their health centres while committed professionals are prevented from starting small-scale care. We have hospitals that want to open up more care places while what we call the nursing shortage, i.e. that there are nurses but not in the hospitals, keeps care places closed. The nurses who actually work there are not allowed to work with what they are trained for, and many have been saddened and started working with other things. People need care, and too few are in place to help. That is the problem we need to solve today. Ministers often point out that it is the regions that are responsible for this problem, but at the same time they want to pick up and help, provide temporary funds and make short-term efforts to solve all this. Temporary funds for better care may sound powerful, Mr President. However, not a single person can be employed on temporary funds, and not a single salary can be raised in the long term on temporary funds. It's not working. These government short-terms, heavy follow-up and reporting and funds that disappear after a few years lead to more top administrators than more health professionals. This is the wrong way to go. It's as simple as that. Mr President, I would like to Government governance is needed in health care. There is no doubt about that. But focus should not be on costly details and short-termness, but on strategy and long-termness. The government, for example, needs to map out healthcare skills. It is a national, strategic issue. I am very pleased that the committee is proposing an announcement on this. Vocational training is an issue that we Liberals have been pushing for a long time. There must be a right in health care. This, too, is a crucial strategic issue. I am very pleased that it will be a parliamentary decision even on that. Knowledge must, of course, keep up with it, including when it comes to new treatments that arise throughout a person's entire career, during the perhaps 40 years of professional activity. There is also a need for an increased level of competence when it comes to genital mutilation, rare diseases and people with disabilities in general, in a broad sense. There is a great deal of need for continuous training during a professional life. I am pleased that we will take a decision on this with this report. Ultimately, it is the working conditions in health care that determine what support we all get when we get sick. It is about having enough colleagues, that you and your colleagues are knowledgeable, that you enjoy and want to stay and that enough others in the workplace also like and want to stay. All political decisions are meaningless without committed professionals. I believe that the regions of Sweden need long-term support. They do not need rear-seat driving, detail control, over-administration or heavy bureaucracy. That is why I support reservation 5 in paragraph 1. It is about the government having to review the issue of nationally decided career paths and national skills ladders and set a national long-term goal that the most experienced in healthcare should earn at least twice as much compared to a newly trained one. This is control that works. Today, both health workers and sometimes their knowledge are a little too rare. Speaking of rare, I would also like to point out that a specific approach to rare diseases would certainly be needed. Nor should it be limited to Sweden, but should, as we in the Liberals call for in the report, be a key issue internationally, not least during Sweden's Presidency of the European Union. There is much to do, but in conclusion we say no to short-term detail control, rear-seat driving and over-bureaucratisation. We say yes to a long-term strategy, Mr President. An election promise from an L-controlled state is to take responsibility both for what the state should not do and for what it should actually do, needs and must do to solve healthcare problems. The state must make healthcare a workplace where you enjoy it so well that all patients in the country know that you get help when you need it. My friends! The devil sits in the detail control, and it has no place in health care.
i-D3gVNaTeBq5F79mTabE7Cf	Mr President, I would like to Of course, I support all our reservations, but in order to save time, I only ask for reservation 48. It is about the importance of monitoring the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's knowledge support, which is designed to support intersex people in their meeting with healthcare. The other day I received a letter from Norrbotten. The municipalities of Gällivare and Kiruna wrote that they need me. They need me as a nurse and they need midwives, physiotherapists, occupational therapists and biomedical analysts during June – August. You are offered good employment conditions, free accommodation and get up for yourself and your family. I thought this sounded very exciting. Just think of spending some time in northern Sweden, which is an amazing part of our wonderful country! Some of me were tempted to say yes while some of me became a little sad. Taking care of people is the absolute finest thing you can do. At the same time, this is a sign of closed care places due to the lack of nurses. The wishes are as simple as having lunch in peace and quiet. Many go down in time to work. The extras are many. Right now there are a lot of people out there who have a lump in their stomach and are thinking about who you will be working with this summer. Will you get a vacation at all? Will the person you are going to work with have competence so that you can share your work? Or will you have to pull a big load yourself? Time to learn through reflection or to just get time to leave the job where it belongs is missing many times. External monitoring and further development are often removed when passports need to be filled. Career opportunities in the profession are seen many times more as something that you yourself have to be responsible for by changing the department to increase your own knowledge. The recruitment and introduction of new employees is ongoing. This is at the same time as there is a lack of, for example, research nurses, something that is really needed for patients to be able to benefit from new and innovative treatments. What are we attracting future nurses to? What is it that we attract nurses who today do something else back to? What are we attracting nurses to keep them here? Where are all these unemployed nurses we want to hire? How are we really going to get out of the vicious circle that we have long been in in health care? I'm also thinking about something else. What needs do we need to solve through skills provision? There is now a shift to close care. But how do we speed up the transition and how do we fill the transition with the right kind of skills? Is it a transition based on a person-centred care with a high degree of patient and related involvement? It is an approach that should be in all areas of health care. There is clearly a need for better working conditions and working conditions. The Green Party's proposal for a recovery bonus, which comes from the floor and which is something we have pushed through, is a start, but of course more measures are needed. I would also like to mention the wise decision to set up the National Council for Health Care, which acts as a spider in the net. I think the Council has a lot of good things going on. In mid-March, the National Council for Health Care presented five areas of action with recommendations for a better supply of skills based on lessons learned from the coronapdemine. One of the areas is to provide the conditions for strengthened leadership in health care with a recommendation that the principals should strive to a greater extent to limit the number of employees for which the operational manager is responsible. I think that is a very important recommendation. Strong and close leadership is an important key to improving the working environment. Of course, the other recommendations are also important; I have only mentioned one example. The assignment also includes the task of collaborating with six regional care skills councils. Finally, I would like to mention what is said about the provision of skills on the National Board of Health and Welfare's website. There we can read that competence provision contains several parts where analysis of competence needs is part of it. But an analysis alone will not be able to answer my questions or solve the skills issue. Other parts are training, recruitment, retaining employees with the right skills and how employees' time and skills are used. I believe that much more resources need to go to our well-being than today in order for us to cope with skills supply, accessibility and the challenges of the future. We need to provide the National Council for Health Care Competences with the right resources and muscles to complete the mission we have today and also to support the six regional Health Care Skills Councils a. I also believe that we must all help to remove obstacles that exist between the state, region, municipality and higher education institutions so that we do not get caught up in old collaboration patterns and so that we can achieve, through cooperation, goals for an improved working environment and good conditions for all parts of the skills supply.
i-6BeiRqtP7QrpNVdCP9VZ47	Madam President, I would like A group in society that is extremely hard hit are those who need a gender change. There is legislation ready at the Government Office regarding the legal part of gender change, but the government chooses not to present it. That is why we in the Center Party would have wished the House to make an announcement that the government would put forward that proposal. I understand that the Green Party is also driving this issue for various reasons. My question to the representatives of the Green Party is: why is it not supporting the Center Party's proposal for an announcement calling for the government to actually deliver? There is such a reservation, and there is the possibility of voting in favour of it. The second question I would like to ask Margareta Fransson is on the same theme and is about the issue of home abortions. In a situation where all parties except the Christian Democrats and possibly the Swedish Democrats have said that the government must make changes so that it can enable home abortions, why does the Green Party not support the proposal for an announcement from the Moderates, Liberals and Center Party? We have just heard that the Left Party is opening up to get to grips with this issue and to consider voting on Wednesday. My question to Margareta Fransson is: Will the Green Party also use these days to contact the maternity doctors, midwives and not least the RFSU in order to be able to land right on this issue and be involved in making a demand to the government to actually do something?
i-3mjGnGYN2xgFZTsxtLyAvT	Madam President, I would like If Mr Jonsson will allow me, I shall begin from behind. I think it is an important and interesting question about the issue of home abortion. I also believe that you should always be open to changing your position, because I think that is how you also gain a great deal of trust. The difference between me and Mr Jonsson, I believe, Madam President, is a decision of a party congress. I don't have one in my back. Member Jonsson invites me to contact, for example, RFSU and all obstetricians. However, I would also like to contact the 500 - 600 representatives, whom I believe it was, in England, or the United Kingdom as it is said, who say that they should not continue home abortions because it has produced some negative results. Some have called and needed urgent medical attention. This question probably requires that you think a little bit more back and forth and actually think about it. What are we saying yes to? And how can we get this done in a good way so that we learn from, for example, the UK – what works well and what works less well?
i-CQNcasYsenmAAqAEhKUhWW	Madam President, I would like It was partly a new message that came now from the Green Party. I have previously understood that the Green Party is behind the modernisation of the Abortion Act in order to make it possible, in accordance with what we still think from birth doctors, midwives, RFSU and others, to make abortion possible also in Sweden. But now it is a new message that I understand, and then I can have respect for the fact that you do not agree to this reservation. The second question hangs a little bit in the air. The Green Party has pushed the issue hard to change legislation on gender and legal sex, and now there is at Parliament's table a proposal, which we will vote on on Wednesday, for an announcement to the government. Then I am surprised that in certain circumstances the Green Party says that it is important that we get the new legislation out, but when it comes to what button to press in the Riksdag, you choose not to make demands on the government in the form of an announcement. Then my question is also there: is it possible for the Green Party to reconsider?
i-AtxqqGPFrXV3qN9APgTrH8	Madam President, I would like I apologise for failing to answer the first question in my previous reply. I maintain that for us there is every opportunity to change us according to the situation, for that is to be done. It honors you that you can actually change your position. There are also paths of one's own that are sometimes chosen over other roads, and this is such a situation.
i-CGFM2aBB2p6WHvmcoEbUWL	Madam President, I would like In the replica shifts it is well in many ways intended to get clarifications and better understand another party's positions and positions. However, I am only more confused after listening to the shift in line between Members Jonsson and Margareta Fransson. What does MP think about abortion? Does the Green Party think that women should be given greater authority over their own bodies and that women are able to make the decision whether to perform an abortion at home or in a hospital? What is the answer? It would be good if Mrs Fransson could clarify that. Home abortion is not a completely new phenomenon. Many countries have already changed legislation to enable and open up to this. We see it in Britain, Germany, Australia and the United States, and statistics and science show that it works well. As I said, it is a very broad profession in Sweden that is calling for this legislative change. This is about Swedish abortion legislation dating back to the 1970s. Medical developments have progressed. When the law came into force in 1975, all abortions were surgical. Now 90% is medical. That is why this change is needed. I hope I can get clarification on this issue.
i-2mbvC6bat8iJELoDzF7ahY	Madam President, I would like I feel that, in my own way, I tried to explain that what divides me and Mr Hultberg is a congressional decision on this issue. The question was also asked, as I understand it, earlier to a member of the Committee on Social Affairs. There has also been new information that I myself highlighted on the basis of events in England that I believe must be taken into account. I personally think that you should have respect for the woman's body, but you should also have respect for the fact that it can actually occur complications, and situations can arise when you need the emergency care. We know from research that has been done here in Sweden that you have not really experienced that you have got the information about bleeding and pain that you should have got when you were at home and started thinking. We also know that the difficulty has been to take the first tablet. That situation has been worse than the actual expulsion of the fetus. All of this together, I think it is important to consider before making a position and deciding what is the best thing to do.
i-HvaUQGLBMDavAvaocBSth6	Madam President, I would like We fully agree that care must be taken to ensure that women who have abortions at home receive the necessary support and ensure that they have received good information for their abortion. We are very clear in our position that it should of course be an after-consultation. However, I think it is an important question of principle whether or not the decision should be made to women. Then, of course, we need to think in detail about the exact design as well and safely as possible. The problems described by the honourable Member are not only related to abortion but, to a large extent, to how abortion takes place in Sweden today. Let me take this opportunity to devote the last minute to broadening the discussion to health policy in general. Throughout my term of office, I have tried to understand what environmental health policy is all about, what it is you want, what proposals you have. I understand that as long as the Green Party has been in government, has not been assigned to the responsible minister, it has come under the shadow of the great Social Democratic Party. But now the Green Party is free from government shackles, can speak freely and pursue its own policy. But there are no suggestions of their own. It is completely empty from the Environmental Party about how to shorten queues, improve accessibility and develop health care. There were far more questions from Mrs Fransson in the speaker's chair than answers from the Green Party about what to do with the problems and challenges that Swedish health care has. I give Mr Fransson two minutes to respond to what the Green Party wants with Swedish health care. How will the major problems of, for example, lack of accessibility be addressed?
i-NRjXhvWujThJq3BPC6Ndoi	Madam President, I would like I'm grateful for a few minutes anyway. I would also like to take this opportunity to say that cooperation with the Social Democrats has worked well. Let's look at the availability. We have in our election manifesto suggested that for some diseases there should be a national queue. Precisely how this is to be done, I do not have an answer here and now, but it may be an example. Weaknesses in accessibility today, for example linked to delayed care, are due to the absence of employees on site. This means that we need to work a lot with skills provision, i.e. attract nurses – to name a professional category – to stay and want to work. I mentioned three examples which we still think are good and could drive the development of Swedish health care. One is increased resources. When I get asked what you really get for your tax money, I should be able to say that I get a good health care, but I also get employees who think that work in health care is the best thing there is, that it is a dream job. I said it's good that we invest in competence nationally in the field of health care. But I am convinced that they need even more resources to carry out their mission and the mission they may receive through announcements from the Riksdag. It is also a question of helping regional skills councils. We need to support national skills councils – the spider in the net. It's incredibly important. There are also colleges and universities involved. I also believe a lot in working more closely with the important health-promoting disease prevention work with the help of a public health law. Johan! We can have a cup of coffee now, and then we can go on.
i-9aNeNzK8pHHPsEJjWWwYTz	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the state's suicide prevention work. Suicide is a public health problem that should be viewed and addressed from several perspectives. Suicide is a human tragedy that affects not only the victims but also a great deal of suffering for relatives and relatives. In addition to relatives and relatives, people who witness suicide, such as traffic, health care or other public places, are also affected. A suicide act is the ultimate consequence of a severe suffering that has befallen the individual. Suffering, for example, can be in the form of mental or somatic diseases. There may also be severe life crises, such as family conflicts, experiences of bullying, financial difficulties, unemployment, or other stressful life events, and circumstances that can lead to hopelessness and depression. Life crises can happen to all of us, but no human being should have to end up in such a vulnerable situation that suicide is seen as the only way out. Since 2016, the government has more than doubled the funds directed to interventions in the area of mental health and suicide prevention – from SEK 1 billion to SEK 2.2 billion this year, 2022. Most of these funds are allocated to municipalities and regions to strengthen and develop work in this area, and for the third year in a row, the government directs special funds to regions and municipalities to work specifically with suicide prevention. Several regions bear witness to the reinforcement it has been, not least my own region of Sörmland. This also applies to the substantial strengthening of funds for civil society organisations to work to promote mental health and to prevent mental illness and suicide. These are funds for the Suicide Line and other support lines, for chat activities and for conversation groups for both survivors and survivors. These organisations do an invaluable daily job in suicide prevention. Several important steps have been taken to strengthen the work on suicide prevention. This does not mean that we Social Democrats are satisfied, but that the work continues unabated. The Swedish National Audit Office's report shows that efforts need to continue to be strengthened and that suicide prevention work needs to continue to be prioritised and to be even higher on the agenda. The consolidated observations and recommendations of the Swedish National Audit Office are presented in a report that was heard by the Government. Madam President, I would like I will briefly mention these recommendations. The first is that national governance of suicide prevention should be designed so that the actions lead to concrete and lasting results. An important part of this work is that agencies are given clear and long-term assignments. That is why the government has turned to around twenty authorities, and I would like to emphasise in particular that MSB is included. Civil Protection is an important piece of the puzzle in the local suicide prevention work. The authorities will provide a basis for the development of a new strategy. The second recommendation from the Swedish National Audit Office to the Government concerns the Swedish Transport Administration's halving target for deaths on state railways for the period 2010–2020. Most cases involve suicide, and the number has remained unchanged during the period – which is not acceptable. Despite the lack of results, the government made a new decision in 2020 on a halving target for all modes of transport by 2030. It is an ambitious and necessary increase in the government of the Authority. The third and final recommendation from the Swedish National Audit Office is that the Government should take the initiative for a national uniform handling of incoming calls related to threats of suicide by emergency number 112. On this issue, the government has chosen to continue working to maintain SOS Alarm's operations and ability to ensure safe and efficient handling of emergency calls. In addition, the Government has commissioned the establishment of a national support line aimed at people with mental illness and relatives and relatives, who have already been reported to the Ministry of Social Affairs and are now being prepared in the Government Office. Finally, Madam President, almost 1 500 people a year are killing themselves. There are 4 people a day. Every person who dies in suicide is a failure of society and a great human tragedy, not least for the relatives. The state should do everything it can, but we all bear a responsibility for what society we want and how we should be against each other – that we see each other, that we never underestimate a whooping or a question of how someone is actually doing. You and I can do that, Madam President. With this, I would like to endorse reservation 1.
i-X4VfaY2Y2mFTBxVcz9XTez	Madam President, I would like Today, as I said, we are debating the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the state's suicide prevention work. The purpose of the Swedish National Audit Office's review has been to find out whether the state's efforts are effective in strengthening suicide prevention work. It is an important review and an important report. Suicide is a public health problem. As many as 13 percent of the population say that they have had suicidal thoughts at some point in their lives. Unfortunately, approximately 1,200 people die each year as a result of suicide in Sweden. In addition to the loss of human life, there is behind each suicide a mother, a father, siblings, relatives and friends who are all affected and are at risk of extensive mental suffering and impaired health. The Swedish National Audit Office estimates that the government has not been active for a long time in the management of suicide prevention work. National governance of suicide prevention should be designed to deliver concrete and lasting results. An important part of this work is that agencies are given clear and long-term assignments. This places demands on the government's ability to govern. However, the review report shows that governance has not been active. The Government writes that it welcomes the Swedish National Audit Office's review. In fact, however, the government unfortunately notes as usual that the criticism that the National Audit Office makes in the form of conclusions and recommendations is unnecessary because all the necessary work is already underway in the Government Office. Although the Swedish National Audit Office's conclusions are very concrete and its recommendations are useful, the Government chooses to see the processing of the review report completed and considers that it does not need to be followed up. That is regrettable. However, it is gratifying that the committee proposes an announcement to the government from, among others, the Moderates – that the government, in accordance with the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendation, should initiate a national uniform handling of incoming calls involving threats of suicide via the 112 emergency number. This is to improve the possibilities to help those who are considering suicide and make it easier for blue light operations to make quick decisions when expressing themselves. The activities of the emergency services are important for local suicide prevention. The Swedish National Audit Office's review shows that municipalities have different conditions for working operationally and preventively with suicide prevention. The review shows that there is a lack of uniform national management of calls to 112 related to suicide threats. It is important for both the individual and society to have a uniform handling of emergency calls related to threats of suicide. Uniform handling can have an impact on the end of cases. The Moderates also propose that the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations to government and authorities be implemented. It is about the need to methodologically strengthen national suicide prevention efforts. The Swedish National Audit Office's overall assessment in the review report shows that the state's work on suicide prevention is not sufficiently effective. Measures proposed include the importance of monitoring suicide events in the healthcare sector in order to contribute to the patient safety work of healthcare operations and thus increase learning. They are also about ensuring improved support regarding knowledge in suicide prevention. One way to contribute to improved support is to ensure that the knowledge support that is produced is concrete, useful and accessible to activities that work with suicide prevention. In this connection, I support the Moderate reservation 2, in which we highlight this. Madam President, I would like National suicide prevention efforts will be developed and improved. Every year, 22 children under the age of 18 die on average in suicide in our country, and according to a new factsheet, more than one in three had visited child and youth psychiatry the year before the death. This shows that a great deal of emphasis needs to be placed on identifying and monitoring children with suicidal risk even after the end of treatment and on a broad work to prevent suicide among children. National suicide prevention efforts will be developed and improved. Children's safety and mental health should be strengthened. All children and young people have the right to feel safe. This security is enhanced both by the fact that there is trust in one's own family and by the fact that society contributes to ensuring that all children and young people are given reasonable and secure conditions for their upbringing. This is the direction and pursuit of the Moderates. Anything else would be to have too little ambition. Children's rights in society, Bris, run Sweden's national support line for children and young people. Bris shows in his annual report that violence has become a part of our children's everyday lives. Bris clearly shows that there is a connection between being subjected to domestic violence as a child and carrying suicidal thoughts or even trying to kill yourself. It is also clear that last year Mr Bris received more than 9 000 calls from children seeking support and assistance, as they were affected by threats of violence, violence, abuse and abuse. Bris has a significant role in society, and the Moderates believe that the state needs to take long-term responsibility for the support lines to be open around the clock. National responsibility, governance and coordination of cooperation between the social services, the police, the school, psychiatry, healthcare and the non-profit sector regarding support and treatment for children exposed to threats of violence, violence or abuse in order to strengthen suicide prevention work. The Moderates believe that here a national action plan needs to be developed and implemented. Finally, Madam President, the Taten needs to take more active responsibility for the governance of the national suicide prevention work.
i-2UFGvhQvXqzxLqAXm3fdAK	Madam President, I would like Today, we are debating the Government's letter in connection with the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the state's suicide prevention work. The Swedish Democrats share the Swedish National Audit Office's overall assessment that the government's work on suicide prevention has not been effective enough. There are, of course, several reasons for this. One of the reasons for the Swedish National Audit Office's assessment is the fact that the zero vision for suicide adopted by the Swedish Parliament in 2008, i.e. as long as 14 years ago, has had no effect. Over the past 20 years, the number of suicides has remained at the same level, that is, about 1,500 suicides a year. Nevertheless, the ambitions of the state suicide prevention work have been remarkably low. If we compare the work with the zero vision of suicide and the work of the zero vision of road deaths, we can see clear differences. Although suicide and road deaths are not the same, it is a relevant comparison to make. Work on the zero vision of road deaths has been very successful, unlike what we were able to see in terms of work on the zero vision for suicide. The major crucial difference between the zero vision of suicide and the zero vision of road deaths are measures that are serious, concrete and long-term. Research, monitoring and evaluation, and not least substantial financial contributions, can also be regarded as crucial actions. In comparison, efforts on suicide prevention have been minor. Concrete targets for reducing suicides have not been set either. What the Swedish National Audit Office says about the lack of effective efforts in relation to the state's suicide prevention work is therefore no surprise. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats are clearly pushing to improve the national suicide prevention work because we believe that real efforts are needed to bring about real change. Let me therefore address some relevant points. First of all, we need to set up a national coordinator with a collective responsibility for the suicide prevention work across the country. Through a national coordinator, suicide prevention work can be structured, and work on the zero vision of suicide can be concretised through a clearer responsibility. The Swedish National Audit Office's report shows that the national governance of the suicide prevention work should be designed in such a way that the efforts produce concrete and lasting results. In addition, the importance of clear and long-term assignments to public authorities is emphasised. It is important to emphasise the fact that suicide is the ultimate consequence of mental illness and that there is a clear link between mental illness and suicide. For this reason, we believe, in line with the report, that the issue must be dealt with from an overall perspective and that we are developing a long-term national strategy for the continued work on mental health and suicide prevention. It is from this much broader perspective that we need to review government and create new structures to improve cooperation between ministries, authorities and other relevant actors. In order for the efforts we make here in the Swedish Parliament to have good effects, they need to be long-term. Temporary contributions and actions that change from one budget to another do not produce lasting results. This is why the Swedish Democrats are calling for a long-term plan based on broad political unity – a plan that we believe should be prepared by a national committee that includes all parliamentary parties, as well as representatives from the profession and other appropriate expertise in this area. We want to see a national strategy that makes a difference to political work on mental health and suicide prevention, and we have been pushing for this for years. Madam President, I would like In its report, the Swedish National Audit Office submits a recommendation intended for the Inspection for Care and Care to follow up suicide events in healthcare activities at an aggregated level. The notification obligation after suicide was abolished on 1 September 2017. Prior to that, it was mandatory to submit a notification to Ivo for external investigations according to lex Maria. The Swedish Democrats have worked for the reintroduction of the reporting obligation in the health and social services at suicide. The abolition of the obligation to notify is, in our view, remarkable to say the least. This means, in practice, that learning opportunities are significantly reduced and that patient safety is adversely affected. Unfortunately, the government is showing a direct passive stance on this issue, which we see as very problematic. Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that the Social Affairs Committee is now sending a notice to the government about a national uniform handling of incoming calls to the emergency number 112 in cases where there is a threat of suicide. This is a proposal based on the motion that we have raised in our follow-up motion, and we are pleased that more parties are seeing the need to work to improve SOS Alarm's operations in dealing with calls related to suicide threats. Our hope is that this can result in more effective interventions, where the right handling, professional treatment and correct assessments can be absolutely crucial and also be the difference between life and death. Finally, I would like to endorse reservation number 9.
i-MGH7BS6mwKq4CP38WUta3f	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Center Party's reservation number 10. Madam President, I would like Every year more than 1,500 people commit suicide in Sweden. Behind each case lies enormous suffering and a great disaster. When someone takes their own life, it's not just a disaster for the individual. It is a disaster and an enormous sadness for family, friends, workmates, loved ones and society at large. This is indeed an issue that we must take very seriously and actively work on in order to bring down the figure. Why do the statistics in Sweden look like it does? Why do we have such high levels of suicide compared to other countries? Unfortunately, we note that the government has not worked on this issue in the way it should have done during the next two terms of office that it has been in power. The expertise and lack of work for many years is something that the Swedish National Audit Office strongly criticises in its review report of the government's suicide prevention work. It can be noted that the state's suicide prevention work is not sufficiently effective. Madam President, I would like The criticism put forward in the report we are debating today is sharp. The review shows that government governance in this area has been weak for many years, and it also shows that responsible government authorities need to develop suicide prevention work in several different areas. Although the need for long-term efforts has been recognised since 2008, no action has been taken. There is absolutely every reason for the rest of us to be self-critical. After all, however, the present government has had the ultimate responsibility for almost eight years, and during that time it has not acted. Responsibility therefore rests heavily on the Social Democratic Government, which only reacted and acted in 2020 by providing more resources. The review is based on the decided vision of suicide: that no one should have to end up in such a vulnerable situation that the only way out is perceived as suicide. For me, this is a self-evident vision. No person should have to feel so bad that suicide is perceived as the only way out. Health care, care, society and our authorities must be better at catching up with these people. We need to be better at understanding signals, reacting and acting. We must have a fine protective net and knowledge in the field that makes no one fall through. Unfortunately, we don't have a fine masked safety net today. Statistics on suicide in Sweden speak their clear and cruel language. Every year, as I said, approximately 1,500 people in Sweden take their lives. This corresponds to 19 people per 100 000 inhabitants aged 15 years and over. I really think these are figures that we should take in and consider, and we need to think about what we are doing wrong. The statistics are clear, and the audit carried out by the Swedish National Audit Office is also very clear. The state's suicide prevention work is not good enough. On point after point, the report notes that prevention has not been sufficiently effective. I could almost finish here and say, "Do it again and do it right!" Implement all the points submitted by the Swedish National Audit Office as proposals for measures. For the points that have been put forward in the review report as proposed measures are actually really good. However, Madam President, I would like to continue and deepen myself in two parts that have been brought to the fore over the past week and which really bear witness to the importance of clarity and governance, the importance of making demands on the use of developed methods and knowledge management for risk assessment and the importance of evaluating and monitoring. Madam President, I would like In recent days, Ekot has presented its own review of how care for children and young people who have chosen to end their lives has worked. It really hurts the whole body when you get to know parents' stories about how they feel that they didn't get the chance to save their children. It also hurts me when I listen to how healthcare professionals feel that they lack the tools they need to detect risks of suicide. What emerges from the Ekot review is deeply worrying because it points out that healthcare is lacking in precisely its assessment of the risk of a person committing suicide. In a bup statement, a patient died as a result of suicide during outpatient treatment. Possible underlying reasons for these deficiencies in assessments may be lack of competence in the area of suicidality and structured suicide risk assessments. ..................................................... I really think that the quote from the bup is telling and goes completely in line with the criticism that the National Audit Office highlights in its report, namely that there are shortcomings in the support for the implementation of knowledge support. It is noted that the Swedish Public Health Agency's work with knowledge support and the research base from the National Centre for Suicide Research and Prevention is important, and they get good grades. But when the knowledge base and research are then to be used out in the activities, it is flawed. Our different businesses feel that it is difficult to navigate among the knowledge support and that they are difficult to use. It is not enough that we have good strategies on paper. A paper strategy does not save lives – what saves lives is if strategies and methods are used and put into practice and working with them in practice. We need to get better in real life and not just on paper. Here the government must be clearer and demand that the existing strategies and methods actually be used out there. The government must demand that they are user-friendly and effective and that they can be monitored and evaluated. Madam President, I would like The second part of Ekot's review, which hooks directly into the review carried out by the Swedish National Audit Office, is about the absence of lex Maria. Until 2017, businesses had to report lex Maria to themselves if a patient committed suicide. This resulted in Ivo reviewing approximately 500 cases each year until 2017. When the requirement for lex Maria notifications was removed, notifications fell sharply to just over 100 per year. The call for the lex Maria notification to be reinstated as soon as possible, otherwise we lack the most important tool to find out why a disaster has occurred and what we can do not repeat it. To conclude, Madam President, I call once again on the Government to implement as a matter of urgency the proposals for measures proposed by the National Audit Office in its review report, with a primary focus on the fact that the knowledge support that actually exists becomes user-friendly and requires it to be used both locally and regionally.
i-SGwvm55AvsffMWt4gqa8hN	Madam President, I would like Suicide — How Disturbing! According to the Swedish Public Health Agency's data, in 2020 a total of 1,162 people aged 15 years or over died as a result of suicide in Sweden. In the 15 to 29 age group, 32 per cent of all deaths were suicides. Those are very high numbers. The difference between different social groups is great. People without post-secondary education are over-represented in suicide deaths. Class and suicide are connected. You have to keep looking at that. Madam President, I would like We need to do more to increase efforts to prevent and prevent suicide. Is it possible to prevent suicide? I'm absolutely convinced of that. Now I'm talking a lot of numbers. According to Mind, at least 15,000 people attempt suicide each year, and 150,000 people have serious suicidal thoughts. This is a social problem. You can't say anything else. Although suicide statistics have declined since the 1970s, we are seeing a slowdown in the decline in Sweden today. Among young people, the trend is even the opposite; it is increasing. A thorough analysis of how suicide looks different in different groups is necessary in order to prevent suicide. We in the Left Party have been pushing matters further in this area. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, it seems that the government's zero vision of suicide has in practice had very little effect. Contrary to, for example, the zero vision of traffic-related deaths, the major efforts on suicide prevention have completely failed, and in comparison with road safety research, suicide prevention research is almost chronically underfunded, which we find strange given that suicide involves not only a great deal of suffering but also enormous social costs. Suicide is a social and public health problem on which resources need to be invested to remedy it. Strategies on paper are not enough, as it were. In order to really accelerate preventive work, various measures are needed, ranging from first-line care to better pupil health and better resources for specialised psychiatry and responsibility for social services. There are a lot of people who need to do more, quite simply. Madam President, I would like The Left Party is working to break the stigma of suicide and open up for discussion about this big problem that affects a lot of people. According to the Swedish National Audit Office's report, on which our discussion in this House today is based, the state's work on suicide prevention has not been effective enough, although after 2020 the government has taken several initiatives to strengthen the work. The efforts we are making must be more concrete and deliver lasting results. It is not only enough that this is in project form, but it must be in the base. An important part is that agencies get clear and long-term assignments and that you have to follow up, evaluate and report back how the preventive work works – what happens, simply. We believe that the government should produce a clear action plan for the prevention of suicide. Preventive work should also be reported. That is why I am in favour of reservation 11. Support for the implementation of knowledge needs to be improved in order to increase the preventive work that needs to be done. There must also be action-oriented and concrete measures. It should be something that is real and that leads somewhere, and we will afterwards be able to see where it has led. Weaknesses in suicide prevention are observed at both local and regional level, and this seems to occur to a relatively large extent without anchoring and clear planning. There are major differences in what is being done. Some municipalities do not work with suicide prevention at all, while others do so. There will be very unequal conditions. We are used to it being quite unequal in Sweden if you do not find tools that work throughout the country and make the whole of Sweden go in the same direction. There is also a lack of uniform national handling of calls to 112 related to the threat of suicide, although there is a knowledge that this would be of value both to the affected individual and to society at large. Uniform handling based on up-to-date knowledge and proven experience can be crucial to the end of cases. Now, in committee, we have produced a proposal for the government to initiate a national uniform management of incoming calls involving threats of suicide via 112. The Left Party is one of the three parties that have exercised this. We are pleased that there has been some of this and that it is being passed on. We hope it becomes reality.
i-Bi46qAAXW2SfZx2mWKo84W	Madam President, I would like The fact that a person sees no other way out than to end his own life is a tragedy on so many levels. A person who has been mentally ill has not received the help that would have been needed to get out of this darkness. Family and other survivors are left in a grieving work that is all too often characterised by feelings of guilt. Ultimately, it is a failure for society, which has not managed to create a sufficiently strong safety net to catch up and help people who are mentally ill. Fundamentally, we need to work preventively to strengthen the mental health of children and young people in general. It is also about identifying risk groups and becoming better at detecting early signs of mental illness and providing early and sustained support for parents and young people, so that it does not develop into more severe mental illness. Madam President, I would like We must never ever let go of those children and young people who are mentally ill. Care must be there and provide sustained support for as long as is necessary. It is therefore absolutely necessary to shorten the queues for children's and young people's psychiatry, bup. When the darkness envelops, there is no time to wait. Then you have to have the opportunity to get to medical care quickly. We need to strengthen resources in general to bup, so that staff across the country are given reasonable opportunities to give the best treatment and, above all, to keep the treatment as long as necessary. Families and other networks must also be involved so that they can be there and support in the best way and be vigilant for signs that may be symptoms of suicidal thoughts. But, Madam President, the state must take greater overall responsibility for the suicide prevention work. That is why today's debate on the Swedish National Audit Office's review of the state's suicide prevention work is so important. Criticism is serious, and it exposes major shortcomings in government governance. I regret that the government does not take criticism more seriously. Madam President, I would like According to the statistics in this report – we have heard it before, but it can be repeated – every year there are about 1,500 people in Sweden who commit suicide, 15 000 people who are judged to try to commit suicide and 150 000 people who are estimated to have suicidal thoughts. Suicide is thus a major public health problem and the most common cause of death among men aged 15 to 44 and the second most common cause of death among women of the corresponding age group. Against this background, it is extremely important to strengthen suicide prevention work on a broad front and to create the conditions for effective national management and collaboration with all relevant actors at different levels. The Swedish National Audit Office highlights several recommendations that are crucial for reaching a zero vision for suicide. Then it is not good enough that the government will only ensure that the Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency, MSB, will participate in the national suicide prevention work. From the Christian Democrats' side, we believe that it is the whole of all the recommendations of the National Audit Office that are essential to make the necessary strengthening of the national work. We are certainly pleased that a majority in the committee supports the recommendation for a national uniform management of incoming calls, via 112, relating to threats of suicide. This is then to make it easier for the blue light operation to make the right decision quickly when the call is made. That is good, but more is needed, Madam President. We Christian Democrats believe that all recommendations should be implemented. It is not good enough for the government to stand passive when it is literally about proposals that can save lives. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office, among other things, makes a recommendation to Ivo, the Inspectorate for Health Care, to follow up suicide events in healthcare activities at an aggregated level – this in order to contribute to the patient safety work of healthcare operations and thereby increase learning. The Government responds to the Swedish National Audit Office that they intend to follow closely what Ivo does. But we Christian Democrats wish the government to take a more active role. For example, it can be ensured that the notification requirement in case of suicide is reintroduced. Until 1 September 2017, it was mandatory to report to Ivo, to make a lex Maria notification, if someone had committed suicide within four weeks of the last time that person had been in contact with the care. However, the National Board of Health and Welfare amended its regulations and abolished the obligation to notify, when according to the authority there was no legal support for this. Now we believe that, in order to be able to work in the best way preventively to reduce the number of suicides, it is crucial that we get the national statistics that can illustrate the situation. The government should therefore take the necessary steps to re-establish this duty. It should not be for relatives to be responsible for making a complaint. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats also want to set up a Commission of Accidents when a person has committed suicide. It is an approach that exists in the UK, among others. There, social services, police, healthcare, schools, civil society and other relevant stakeholders interact. They watch together: What happened? What's been broken? Everything is done in order to get better at preventing such tragedies from happening again. I would like to stress that an accident commission is not about finding scapegoats, but is really about learning: what has been broken? When it is such a tragedy, we must do everything we can to prevent others from falling into the same darkness. I would therefore like to support our reservation number 7. Finally and again, Madam President, it is not good enough for the government to remain passive when a report from the Swedish National Audit Office clearly shows shortcomings in the national governance of the suicide prevention work. It is a betrayal of all those who right now need help in finding a way out of the darkness. But it is also a betrayal of survivors who have lost a friend or family member. I therefore wish the government to reconsider and ensure that all the recommendations of the Swedish National Audit Office are implemented.
i-RBnTHFHUDfLTo6QhfoM1J9	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say how good it is that we have a national audit. We're getting reports from there. One we discussed a month ago. It was about orphan medicines and patient groups who do not receive their medicines because they are considered too expensive. That audit report triggered a process in the Government Office. Here is another report on a very difficult and serious problem, namely suicide. They are on the same level year after year – about 1,500 cases. It is tragic that lives are shortened that could have been so enriching for a long time to come. We've got kids. We have middle-aged people. But we also have years-rich people, and I think we have a dark number there. There's suicide in that group that doesn't get into the statistics. These cases are tragic in terms of the individual. They are tragic and difficult also for loved ones, relatives, workmates, and schoolmates who carry their grief all their lives. It won't go away. It is always there and comes to the surface in connection with birthdays and other days of meaning. Support for survivors who have been affected in different ways is very important, and there the support phones are a huge asset. In 2008 and 2009, the government at the time addressed the issue. It was formulated a national overall zero vision and a national action programme. Some things have happened, partly and partly, during this period, but when the Swedish National Audit Office takes up the issue it seems that it is only by 2020 that it will be real speed. It is different governments that bear a responsibility because it looks like little has happened. Here I wish the audit had looked more at: Why is there so little happening? If we are to come forward here, after the presentation of what the 23 authorities think should be done in 2023, we must also have a strategy on how to get this experience out. How do we get the decisions made during the next vote here in Parliament? In the Social Affairs Committee, we have worked a little like the National Audit Office. We look at how laws that we make in all good sense pass, and that is a series of disappointments. The laws don't stick out in reality, and there's probably a lot of other decisions we make. It is about what communication strategy we should have so that what we make decisions about here in Parliament will reach out to the real world branches, in this case very much health care. However, the 23 authorities will make proposals in other areas. As far as health care is concerned, I would particularly like to mention school health care and bup. What are we doing here? Bup has so long waiting times that you don't even refer there. One of the cases reported on the radio in the last few days involved a young person who did not feel important after being referred to a youth clinic with his problems and then committed suicide. This is a failure for us here. How are we to quickly create available resources for those young people who suffer badly for various reasons and who have mental ill health leading to such an end? Of course, I welcome the fact that there are organisations such as Mind and others calling back. Finally, I would like to say that in 2023 the 23 authorities come with their proposals. The government strengthened its efforts in 2020. I think that the next Parliament, this autumn or sometime during the winter, should have a hearing on how the decisions that we have taken or will take here in a few weeks' time and on other contributions are going. We in the Committee on Social Affairs should, through hearings, monitor the progress of the work here and not just sit and wait for the 23 authorities.
i-9bo2Cv18CTZrZoeVFPfUVL	Madam President, I would like Of course, I support all our requests, but in order to gain time, I only support reservation 13, which deals with a proposal for a supplementary assignment to the Public Health Agency that the national support line should also be able to provide support to people with substance abuse and addiction problems, plus that a specific plan and action should be drawn up for people with addiction and addiction problems to know about the national help line. I agree with Mr Barbro that it is great that the National Audit Office exists. All auditing is good, because it's a constant learning. In this case, the Swedish National Audit Office recommends the Swedish Public Health Agency and the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare to include and develop areas that have a bearing on suicide prevention work, such as substance abuse and addiction and support for relatives. The Swedish National Audit Office continues that these areas need to be followed up with adequate indicators so that systematic learning is developed in this area. I think these recommendations are very good. We have had a rather absurd way in our society when it comes to not wanting to deal with some complex problems, as if people have either an addiction problem, mental illness or somatic problems. A person should not have to wait to get support for mental problems until you get rid of your addiction. There are also proposals that can further bring about a real change for people with substance abuse and addiction problems. I am thinking of the proposal that healthcare should take over responsibility for co-morbidity, as suggested by the Abuse Investigation and which we have been behind for a long time. Furthermore, we have a proposal for a Public Health Act, which specifically identifies the responsibilities of different levels of decision-making in relation to prevention. The other day I read a very interesting study, which I think was from 2019. It shows that the number of suicides related to gambling abuse proved to be greater than feared and that the overall mortality rate was also higher compared to the mortality rate of the population at large. For women, the risk was greater than for men, and the combination of mental illness and other forms of addiction further increased the risk. Gambling addiction can be the oldest of all addiction diseases, yet it may be the least we know about right now. That is why I would like to highlight it a little extra. It's fast loans and various games just a few clicks away – keystrokes that can have dire consequences. Sometimes it worries me that it's that simple. What can make it all challenging is that gambling addiction does not have any physical symptoms in the same way as other addictions have. It's possible to sneak under the radar for a very long time. The logical conclusion to get rid of gambling addiction is to continue, but this does not lead to the pursuit of profits but rather losses. It's a hunt that risks becoming so overpowering that the only way out you see is to take your own life. On the basis of the addiction and addiction issue, which we have chosen to exemplify with gambling addiction, we think it is very important that people with substance abuse problems have knowledge of the national help line and can feel comfortable making contact without further reference. A plan is needed for people with substance abuse and addiction problems to know about this in order for them to feel in practice that what they have the opportunity to turn to an authority when they have needs. When we debated the ANDTS strategy in this House, I began my speech with a quote, and I intend to end this speech with the same quote from Marthin Latvalehto, who was interviewed by the Swedish Radio 2018 regarding his gambling addiction: Just like you know where to go when you've sprained your foot. When you stand at the cliff, you need help quickly. .....................................................
i-PjeSgHiL4662He241rb1ra	Madam President, I would like For police investigators, a mobile phone is often the one that contains the most information to solve a crime and collect evidence and evidence that can result in a conviction. When Europol, together with the Swedish police, broke Encrochat, it resulted in criminal gang leaders being arrested and many victims getting their redress. Whether the information is encrypted, hidden in apps or completely open and readable, technical devices are important. The problem is just how the police are supposed to be able to access the communications. There are many questions to ask, such as the secret data reading and what Trojans and programs the police actually use. It's hard to get an answer. Other questions I usually ask are why Swedish police do not develop their own encryption keys and why no more IT technologies are employed. However, today the police will be given a small tool to open mobile phones, namely the possibility of getting a suspect to scan the fingerprint or face by biometric scanning. There are misgivings about that too, and the Left Party highlights them in its motion. The proposal has been criticised by several consultation bodies, inter alia because it is considered to be contrary to the right not to burden oneself and the requirement for a legally secure trial. The Swedish Bar Association writes in its consultation that a regulation that forces a suspect to open up a readable information system to search not only violates the fundamental principles of the suspect's right to be passive and not to burden himself, but also constitutes a significant deviation from the principles that have so far governed the general practice of violence against individuals. Madam President, I would like Overall, the Left Party is mainly behind the Government's proposal for more modern rules on the use of coercive measures. However, this does not apply to the part where it is proposed that law enforcement officials be allowed to use force to force a person, for example, to unlock a mobile phone. If he or she refuses, a police officer will be allowed to go through with this opening. If the police encounter resistance, they shall be allowed to use force in accordance with the provisions of the Police Act. According to the government, for example, violence can consist of holding the person for a short time so that reading can take place or pressing his finger against a mobile phone to unlock it. A suspect for a period of 15 years shall also be required to contribute to biometric authentication if there are specific reasons. We fully understand that it can be very challenging to investigate crimes without access to evidence that is assumed to be present in, for example, a mobile phone. But we believe that the police can use other and better methods than violence, for example through interrogation techniques, to get people to open up the information carrier on their own. I'm in favour of the reservation.
i-MvyAiYttwMQqg2EJLVoMzE	Madam President, I would like It is only me and the valiant left-wing partyist Linda Westerlund Snecker who have registered us for this debate, even though it is about something as important as better tools in the fight against crime. I shall also say that I have the deepest understanding that the Members of all parties do not give priority to being in this debate. Debates where the vast majority agree that these are very good proposals that the government has put forward tend to be comfortable and pleasant but perhaps not so entertaining and tense – much like a rejected soda. But it is a bit risky that the public sometimes misses important progress that is being made. Although we agree on them, they are still very important and urgent. We have made a huge journey in Swedish justice policy under our current Social Democratic Minister of Justice. Step by step, team by team, we've made a shift, I'd say. Sometimes we have to zoom out and see the combined power of what we have accomplished. These are hundreds of legislative changes, all of which have given Swedish authorities new tools, not least in relation to the criminal gangs. What, then, are we going to vote on? Well, it's about investigating crimes by accessing information in the so-called digital cloud and investigating crimes by entering suspect phones. It is about copying and storing the information that the authorities can access. It involves a greater obligation to disclose documents and the subject matter of their use in legal proceedings. And it is also a question of making international cooperation consistent with these changes. I will not go through everything in detail, but I would like to briefly mention a few things. When it comes to remote search, we make sure that criminals are unable to protect themselves by keeping information in the digital cloud rather than on their own computer. This is a good illustration of how the law book must always be a living document. Today's legislation is written in a cloud-free time. But now the cloud is there, and then we must have rules for it so that we do not lose the initiative. It is common for electronic data which may be relevant as evidence to be stored in a place other than that of the object, such as a computer or a mobile phone, which has been seized or which has been found at a house search or at a body search. Data are often stored in the digital cloud or on an external server and cannot therefore be said to be stored in the physical object of the seizure or searcher. The legal situation is currently unclear as to whether law enforcement authorities can access such information. The dominant view is that anyone who searches the contents of electronic communications equipment under a search warrant or for a seizure must not have access to information other than that stored there. In order to provide effective investigative tools to law enforcement authorities, the Government proposes to introduce an opportunity to search for documents stored in a readable information system outside the electronic communication equipment used for the search. The procedure, which constitutes a new coercive measure, shall be referred to as a remote search. I'm going to continue with the information. The previous speaker looked at biometric authentication. If there is reason to believe that someone is in a position to open a readable information system by means of biometric authentication, the proposal requires him or her to contribute to this if a search of a seized object, search or search at a distance is otherwise made more difficult. If he or she refuses, a policeman will be allowed to perform the authentication. In addition to a police officer, an official of the Customs Service and a coast guard officer may also execute or assist, for example, a seizure or search warrant, and in these cases they have the same powers as a police officer to use force. These officials have the same need as a police officer to carry out biometric authentication and should be given the same powers in these parts as a police officer. As in the case of a policeman, it is not necessary to provide for the use of force in certain cases to do so. In conclusion, these are important and long-awaited new tools in the government toolbox in the fight against crime. With this, I call for the proposal to be approved.
i-J5z5fmiQSW3uShUFgNKXRH	Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office has examined whether the work of the police and prosecutors against online sexual abuse of children is carried out effectively. Of course, it would have been nice to see that there was no such crime at all. Unfortunately, however, there is just such a crime. Adults, mostly men, use social media, games and various apps to contact children for sexual purposes. It can be about sexual posing in different ways but also about trying to get to physical meetings where sexual abuse can occur. They persuade, manipulate and threaten children to make them abuse themselves. And then we have these dickpicks. What makes men take the liberty of sending these pictures to other people and to children? Children are also lured into prostitution through various online services where they sell pictures of themselves. One picture is followed up by more, and then they spread online in a never-ending stream. We also see suckling, where older men in particular seek contact with young girls for intercourse and sex in exchange for gifts or money. All this disgusting things are exposed to our children, every day, online. It happens in the most innocent games, where these perpetrators nest in and pretend to be another child. Then when they have lured the first picture, the threats and with them shame, anxiety, fear, despair and stomach pain. The audit by the Swedish National Audit Office is both welcome and important. Sexual crimes against children are among the most serious crimes, and the fight against these crimes is a high priority for us Social Democrats. The review shows that there are shortcomings in the effectiveness of both authorities, and the Swedish National Audit Office gives both the Police Authority and the Swedish Prosecution Authority some recommendations that the government, as well as the authorities themselves, consider relevant. The authorities must ensure that they take the necessary measures to ensure that the work is carried out effectively. This will be carefully followed by the government. In addition, the Government has asked the authorities to report their criminal investigation work and the results in relation to crimes against children in 2021. The Government has also requested a special account of the progress of work in the field of child offences in the regulatory letters to the two authorities for 2022. There is also an investigation called "A growing up free from violence" which will, among other things, propose a national strategy to prevent and combat violence against children and how child care activities can develop, for example, in terms of equal support throughout the country. The investigation will report on its mission at the end of the year. Madam President, I would like I am in favour of reservation number 2, because we believe that further training and staff placement are two good examples of issues which in this case belong to the internal organisation of the Political Authority. We believe that the authority itself should have access to this. The new training which has been set up and which is aimed at all investigators investigating crimes involving children is positive, and we do not believe that there needs to be an announcement to the government on this point. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to say a few words about something that I think we should talk more about – and perhaps not just talk about – but we also need to see what a worry it is for children, for women and for men. And what do you think it is? Yeah, it's the porn. There is a link between child sexual abuse and child pornography. Persons convicted of child pornography offences are also convicted in many cases of sexual offences against children. However, this is not just about child pornography, ladies and gentlemen, but about pornography as a whole. There are strong links between porn consumption and sexual abuse. If we want to deal with all the sexual abuse of children, women and men, we also need to deal with the side effects of porn.
i-Thv9b6rdicYEC8WjNrqGnq	Madam President, I would like The Left Party has, of course, taken note of the Swedish National Audit Office's urgent report on the cruel issue of child sexual abuse, and then abuse related to or taking place via the Internet. We have three reservations and we support them, but I only support reservation number 1. We think that many of the initiatives that have been taken are a little bit of a blow in the air because a lot is already going on. Both the authorities and the government have shown respect for the measures proposed by the Swedish National Audit Office. This should be speeded up, but, as the previous speaker mentioned, there are several results in the pipeline of deep and urgent investigations. These serious issues need to be addressed seriously – it must not become a hafsverk. The problem area is complex, unpleasant and clearly characterised by the current gender power regime. The absolute majority of the perpetrators here are men, and the majority of the victims are girls. A further imbalance in power is the difference in age between perpetrator and victim. It's adults to children, boys and girls. These are difficult and value-charged issues, and they are loaded with power. Therefore, an organisation is required that ensures a strong competence both in tip and in width. But no one can act alone here, but there needs to be strong cooperation. This is also reflected in the report. It's also about the perpetrators changing arenas. Here is the focus on the internet, but the idea is often that it should lead to a physical meeting. Police and prosecutors need to focus on the Internet, and the police need to patrol online these days. And it is possible; you will be able to find both victims and perpetrators that way, because that is, of course, where they meet. Education and cooperation with civil society are also very important. Actions based, for example, on collaboration with hotel staff and taxis have been able to capture some of the problems and lead to arrests where the problem may have been rooted in internet contacts. But it is also the case that the perpetrators constantly change arenas, and nowadays meeting places are more often privately rented apartments. Civil society must also be on its toes if we are to tackle the problem. Ideal organisations have always been groundbreaking. Women's and girls' shelters, Ecpat, 1000 Opportunities, Talita and in recent years Child 10 are very offensive and important actors, and we need to follow up their initiatives. I would also like to link this a little to the way we are talking about this issue. It is clear from the Swedish National Audit Office's report that these crimes are sometimes minimized and that they are displaced by other crimes. But it's a serious crime that's going on-- it's sexual crimes, which are regulated in Chapter 6. The penal code. When it comes to children, we've had a slip. In fact, as early as 1965, we criminalized attempts to recruit children into prostitution. It was called for a long time a seduction of youth and was the first type of sex purchase that was criminalized in Sweden. Then the concept has been replaced and talked about the purchase of sexual acts by children, and since 2020 we are talking about the exploitation of children through the purchase of sexual acts. This is an important shift in value. It's about protecting the children from sexual exploitation. These words that lead us to think of a market – buy, demand and so on – are, of course, completely wrong, but we may not get any further than that in the labeling. The Left Party has acted on these issues in many contexts. We have brought up to date an action plan that would address gender-related violence in general. In what we have called a femicide package, we have called for millions to be invested in building strong skills throughout the legal chain. However, it is not enough; there needs to be skills also in the rest of Welfare Sweden – in social services, health care and so on. The report highlights children's houses. They're extremely important. There are 33 in Sweden today, but there are 68 municipalities without children's houses. That must not be the case; this must be addressed. The Gender Equality Agency has also carried out an evaluation of the work on child abuse. They highlight other success factors. Barnahusen is one; regional coordinators are another. For example, Stockholm has a coordinator specifically focused on children and young people who cooperates with the police. This is very important. I would also like to say something about the fact that this really is not about a few. There are reports published by the General Children's House, which is written by Professor Carl Göran Svedin, among others, asking high school students in the third year if they have sold sex. That's 1.4% of the girls and 0.8% of the boys. It is both girls and boys who are exposed to this, but the perpetrators are in both cases men. We also have cause for concern now that many unaccompanied children are at risk of being tangled into these activities. These children are even more protectionless than children who may have more threads into what might be a different security. We have to help them all. The material is very important, and continuation must follow.
i-S7RxwSmQR21Vs6fN3ULFT9	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Swedish National Audit Office's report. The work of the Swedish Police Authority and the Swedish Prosecution Authority against Internet-related sexual abuse has been reviewed. The reason for the review is that the risks have increased radically, as the internet has given perpetrators great opportunities to commit sexual abuse and exchange abuse materials with each other. The crimes involved are child pornography offences, the exploitation of children for sexual posing, contacting to meet a child for sexual purposes and the exploitation of children through the purchase of sexual acts. The Swedish National Audit Office has identified many shortcomings in the work of both the police and prosecutors. This is very serious. When you read about shortcomings, you should think about what these shortcomings mean and what consequences they have. The consequences are that children continue to be raped or subjected to other sexual abuse. The consequences can be lifelong for many children. Children who are victims of sexual abuse are affected more often than other children by mental illness, failed schooling and many other problems later in life. Therefore, the shortcomings listed in this report must be taken seriously and addressed. Children should not have their lives ruined because there are known shortcomings in the work of the police and prosecutors. As regards the Police Authority, the Swedish National Audit Office has noted, among other things, that the cases are often extensive, that they are investigated in different ways in the country and that the quality is not the same everywhere. It has also been noted that children who are exploited through the purchase of sexual acts are severely deprived throughout the country. In fact, it is serious – this is about babies being sexually abused. These cases are prioritised as they require active reconnaissance and other cases are prioritised instead. So the priority is to reduce sexual crimes against children. It is very serious, I think. The Swedish National Audit Office considers the Swedish Prosecution Authority to be vulnerable. There are no different procedures for dealing with pre-studies with extensive materials. Madam President, I would like On the Internet, a perpetrator can contact hundreds of children and, through flattery, threats, blackmail or gifts, have children send pictures or films to themselves where they expose themselves or others to abuse. The perpetrator also tries to meet the children physically to commit rape. The darker number of these crimes is great. The crimes are difficult to investigate, and the perpetrators often go free. When it comes to child pornography crimes, they often include millions of images. Through so - called sugard ejaculated sites, children are lured into prostitution, and then they are tricked into agreeing to have sex for payment. According to estimates, more than 10,000 youths aged 15 - 19 sell sex. It can therefore be 10 000 children selling sex in Sweden. The abuse material is further spread, and this is offensive and traumatic to the vulnerable child. For all internet-related sex offences, the percentage of personal clearance is around 20 per cent. So only 20% are cleared up. Results and study times vary from region to region. In a region, for example, it takes 100 days to empty a mobile phone when looking for pictures and evidence. In another region it takes 300 days, i.e. considerably longer. It shouldn't be that big a difference. With regard to methodological support, it has been found that it is important to conduct early questioning, search and seizure. The report shows that interviews with suspects are held in barely half of the cases. Hearings with plaintiffs are held in less than half of the cases. These crimes are not taken seriously when there are interviews with less than half of the plaintiffs. The difference between the reported cases of different groups amounts to 33%. So there are very big differences over Sweden, and that should not be the case. It should not be that children get more help when they live in an end of Sweden and less help in another place. Madam President, I would like There's an education debt with the police. The internal audit of the Police Authority has found that the proportion of trained children's interrogators within the Agency has decreased from 43 per cent in 2016 to 31 per cent four years later. This is really bad, as for many years there has been a lack of child interrogators. In view of the new criminalisation of child peace crimes, which it was decided a while ago, even more child interrogators are needed than before. It should also be borne in mind that it is very burdensome to be a child interrogator. I've been there myself. It is often terribly heavy to hear how disgusting paedophiles rape children. It is therefore very important that children's interrogators receive training so that they can cope with their heavy work. I've said myself that the only thing I wouldn't be working with in the police-- I've been a cop for 30 years anyway-- is investigating child pornography crimes. This basically means that all day long you should sit and watch movies where young children are raped. It's terrible. I've seen some of these films here in Stockholm ten years ago, and I still remember it – it's almost in my brain. For you to understand how disgusting it is, I can tell you that I sat with my hands on my face. But you know what the worst part was? The worst was a three- or four-year-old girl who was raped. She screamed with pain when she was raped. It's so terrible. Then why am I saying this? Well, to make people understand how disgusting it is. The shortcomings that the Swedish National Audit Office has rewritten in its report must not just be sidelined. We must ensure that these shortcomings are rectified in order for no children to be raped. It is one thing if you do not know them, but we know that these shortcomings exist now. They simply need to be addressed. There's a lot more you can say about this children's house thing. It's important that it works. But time flies when you're involved. In any case, I think the government is taking this report far too lightly. They just add it to the record and tell the authorities to do this on their own. I think that's a rather lax way. I don't think child sexual abuse is taken seriously. I think the government should point with all its hands and ensure that the police and the Prosecutor's Office correct all the shortcomings raised by the National Audit Office. Fortunately, there are wiser parties in Parliament. That is why we are receiving an announcement that the government will ensure that these deficiencies are remedied. We'll get through some other announcements as well. But as I said, time passes quickly, so I'll settle for this.
i-9wLHHSnVt6faLHijXRWjux	Madam President, I would like We debate the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the work of the police and prosecutors against online sexual abuse of children. The reason why the Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the authorities in this particular part is that we have had a development where more and more children and young people are exposed to sexual abuse on the internet. In this debate there may not seem to be any huge differences between the different parties. But there are at least four announcements, and there are reservations from the red-green parties. The announcements take note of the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism of the Swedish Prosecution Authority and not least of the Swedish Police Authority. Deficiencies in working methods, skills, country-wide equivalence and efficiency have been identified, as well as weaknesses in the governance of the two authorities. It is clear that it can be claimed that this work will be taken into account by the government and that it will be taken into account by the government. However, I believe that it is necessary to be a social democrat in order to have that confidence in the government, Madam President. Unfortunately, we in the opposition have seen that there has been a lack of work and a lack of control of the Police Authority, not only when it comes to Internet-related sexual crimes against children, but perhaps in general. I am pleased, Madam President, that we are a majority in this House which takes up the criticism and feels that it is so urgent that we want to put political pressure on the government through Parliament. Announcements are important. They give the government less room for manoeuvre to interpret freely, which may always be done. The fact that, for example, there are fewer child interrogators today than before, despite the fact that we have had a red-green or social-democratic government for seven eight years, suggests that there is a lack of commitment and work to address the recruitment problem within the Police Authority. After all, the opposition has been active over the years in order to broaden the scope for recruiting competent staff to the Police Authority. These announcements are important, Madam President. Although they may seem to be in harmony with the Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party in this House, I think it is important that Parliament puts pressure on the government on these issues. The shortcomings highlighted by the Swedish National Audit Office in this case are deficiencies that ultimately affect children. Children may be the most vulnerable group of victims and perhaps especially when it comes to sexual crime. It is only to imagine what it would be like to grow up knowing that you have been subjected to a sexual abuse that may have been recorded and that there may be images that are flourishing. Of course these kids will be affected for the rest of their lives. Then you cannot take these questions and these criticisms lightly. In addition to what we are discussing in this report, we in Sweden have tabled a proposal on criminal provocation, which could be a success factor in getting to the perpetrators before the perpetrators get to the children. This is an issue that we have highlighted, but which we lacked the support of all the other parties to even investigate. I think we can take that issue with us in this debate and think about it. We see how many children are available for paedophiles, for rapists, for those who want to come into contact with children for sexual purposes. We need to look into new working methods to put an end to it. In my world, it is much better for perpetrators to contact a police officer on the other side of the computer than to come into contact with children. In this context, criminal provocation could be a success factor in not even creating victims from the outset. Now that we have such a development and when the Swedish National Audit Office has addressed this criticism, I think it is important, as I have said before, that we take that criticism seriously. I therefore call for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved and for the reservations contained in the report to be rejected.
i-T6ktT1rj6a5GRL13n1zxw8	Madam President, I would like I will admit that sometimes I get a little frustrated with what we choose to spend a lot of time on and what we choose to spend quite a little time on when it comes to different parts of the legal debate. I remember, for example, two so-called special debates that we had on two different subjects quite close in time. I think it was around Christmas two years ago. One was about the law on special foreign control. The second was about violence in close relationships. It had been a dark year when many women were murdered within the framework of what we call violence in close relationships or violence in relationships. During the debate on the LSU, there was a great deal of work going on outside in the chamber foyer. All the media were here. All of us legal spokespersons got nice quotes in the media. We could be happy with our efforts that day. A month later, when we debated violence in close relationships, a type of crime that reaps almost as many deaths as gang violence, there was not a cow here. No media at all were interested in the debate we had at the time. Then there has been an increase in interest in this subject, which I am extremely pleased about. But this is an example of how we sometimes focus the debate wrong and spend a great deal of time on certain things when we really would have had to put it on other things. We're talking about gang violence. There is good research that shows that very much of the violence committed by young adults runs out of the fact that you have been the victim of violence in your childhood. Combating violence against children is not only right and fair to the children who should have been exposed. It is also a very good investment to avoid further development of violent crime of higher ages. When it comes to violent extremism, there is good research from the Segerstedt Institute in Gothenburg that suggests that there is almost no such Nazi who has not grown up under violent conditions. It is extremely urgent for many reasons to tackle the problem of crimes committed against children. What we are discussing today, the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the work of the police and prosecutors against online sexual abuse of children, is no exception. I think many people agree that children are the most important thing we have and should be given the highest priority. Yet we do not. It's strange. I find it extremely strange how we can focus so misplaced. We should put all our strength on this very thing. The Swedish National Audit Office highlights rather serious deficiencies in the police, in particular, but also in the prosecutors. There is a problem raised that I have seen in different places regarding different types of law enforcement on the part of the police. When I meet cops around the country, I'm often struck by how competent they are. I believe that the Swedish police are of the highest quality when it comes to the competence of the individual employee. But often something is not quite right in the organization and management culture. You just don't get the power on the hill. I think we can take some of this report with us to other areas too. What is particularly serious is the emphasis on this type of crime being used a little as a moderator to regulate balances. What could be more important than child sexual abuse? It can't be like this. Something else, which was raised earlier, is inequality across the country. It shouldn't matter where in the country you live or who you are. Everyone should have the same criminal protection. This needs to be addressed. We choose to go forward with a number of accompanying motions that lead to announcements. We are doing this because we must put political pressure on this issue. There are many other areas where it is doubtful to go forward with new announcements where there are announcements before, but there is not. There are other issues where we know that a far-reaching preparation process is on the roll and where the government has shown a true willingness to do as the Riksdag says. But here we have newly broken ground that we must continue to cultivate, and therefore we must put pressure on the government on these issues. It was mentioned that a preparation work is underway. Let us see it in concrete action. Let the government know that it is Parliament's express and strong desire to address the shortcomings highlighted by the Swedish National Audit Office in this report.
i-KJzA4RpQubXgPK9rDE32Jj	Madam President, I would like Sexual abuse of children is probably the crime that arouses the most disgust and anger in me. Those who abuse children deserve nothing but our contempt. They destroy lives and tear up crops. No child should have to be exposed to it. Anyone who commits sexual crimes against children deserves a very severe punishment, and the victim deserves our absolute best protection and care in order to heal and become whole again. Madam President, I would like Children who are victims of crime must be protected to the utmost. Usually the children have a safe and loving family around them, but too often that is not the case. Every time it's not, it's a big failure that needs to be fought. Sometimes parents are perpetrators, and that requires a safe and secure place for the children who are victims of crime. One such place is children's houses. Barnahus is a collaboration between authorities around children who have been victims of crime. Here are police, social services, psychologists, prosecutors and doctors co-located, and the child may be in a child-friendly environment during interrogations and examinations. The criticisms made by the Swedish National Audit Office are serious. It calls for consistency, high quality and accessibility of children's houses for all vulnerable children and young people. It should be a matter of course, but the government has not been able to deliver. This must change, and so the Christian Democrats want children's houses to exist in each municipality. They must be of high quality, they must make children who have been victims of crime safe and they must get to the bottom of the investigations necessary to convict the very serious criminals who have committed these ruthless crimes. To my delight, today there is quite a consensus on this. A united committee supports, among other things, the Christian Democrats' motion to strengthen work on the children's houses and take advantage of the criticism that is being highlighted. Now a great responsibility rests with the government to ensure that it becomes a workshop. Sometimes there is a strange contrast in politics. Where there is conflict, things happen while where there is agreement is drawn in a long line. I would like an answer from the Socialist Government when we can expect initiatives that will put the rights of the most vulnerable children at the centre of our attention. There is a great deal of responsibility to the government, and we have a very clear order from a single risk day when we are going to make these decisions. The Swedish National Audit Office's review of the work of the police and prosecutors against sexual abuse on the Internet is very important. Unfortunately, the government has responded in a way that has become typical after the Swedish National Audit Office's reviews. Either the problems are up to the individual authorities to deal with, or the government has already taken sufficient measures or started preparatory work. We do not think that this is an adequate way of dealing with important audits, especially not as important a review as this one. The Swedish National Audit Office criticises the Swedish Police Authority. Among other things, the report states that the crime of child abuse through the purchase of sexual acts often falls between the chairs. That is totally unacceptable. The shortcomings in national governance, regional disparities, the unacceptably long time taken to produce national guidelines, methodological support and proper support from the Authority's IT and HR departments are highlighted. These are very serious deviations in the work of the police. This is something that needs to be addressed quickly and which requires the leadership of the government. You can't push this away. Regional differences should not mean that sexually abused children fall between the chairs. The police should be tasked with ensuring effective IT support and training, increasing on-line patrols, prioritising internet-related sexual abuse of children and ensuring national management of the work. This fits in with the first announcement. I have already touched on the second announcement on children's houses. The third announcement is about more children's interview leaders – something that feels extremely urgent, not least after Ellen Junttis very painful description of what the business looks like and how much the needs are. The fourth notice concerns a review of confidentiality legislation. It is a matter of ensuring that confidentiality does not become an obstacle in the work of protecting vulnerable children. This has also been highlighted when I myself have visited various plastics in the country and met those who work at children's houses. These are four very important announcements, to which I commend them. When will the government act? We hear the consensus and the fine words. When does it become practical action? When will the government stand up for its words but above all for these children? We have not had a date in this debate, and I regret that. But I look forward to it coming very soon.
i-Jam1Dx8BgnAriUcAm4CVHP	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating proposals on criminal law, which is an incredibly large and not least important subject. Those who look at this debate see a very small part of the work behind this report. We have had to take a position on 280 motions in various motions, that is 280 proposals for the development of criminal law. These have been sexual offences, measures against serious organised crime, prescriptions and penalties for multiple crime, to name but a few of what we have been looking at. There have been proposals from individual members of parliament from different parties, and now we are going to take a stand and vote. We have already dealt with this in committee, because that is how it works here in Parliament. Of the 280 proposals, 13 have received a majority in the Committee on Justice. With the parliamentary situation we have today, this does not mean that there is a majority in this House, but a total of nine proposals are also in a position to obtain a majority in this House. It is therefore only nine out of the 280 proposals that there is no cross-block consistency. I think that is worth bearing in mind when we talk about criminal policy and criminal law. One easily gets the impression that we disagree extremely and argue about everything. That is not the case, and I think it is important to take it with me. The reason why so few motion proposals have been passed is not because we are paralysed. It is important to remember that it is the government that has the right of initiative to make legislative proposals, and a great many have arrived. Some seventy punitive measures have taken place under the current Social Democratic Minister of Justice. Much is done, and much is also going on. One example of what has been done and which is very topical today is the new law on blue light abotage. I know that there are many of us inside and out in the country who have been upset by the images and stories we have read through the media. We have seen extremely powerful violence directed at police officers who have been out doing their job. I think there are many of us who are happy that we have added to the law book the crime of blue light abotage. It is a crime that, in the grosser form, has a scale of punishment that covers itself from two years in prison to life. This is now available in the toolbox for the legal system in the after-treatment of the riots. Madam President, I would like One thing is legislation, and another is the ability to prosecute according to it. I cannot, therefore, fail to mention how important it is for us to reach the target of 10,000 more police workers. That's what we're about to do. But it should also be said that we in committee, with our punitive measures and our efforts in the police and the judiciary, can never do more than half the work. Once crimes have been committed, it is important that they are cleared up and accountable. But most of the time, the crimes will never happen. Crime prevention is therefore extremely important. It is about a school, a social service and a labour market that also works for those with special difficulties in life. The collective can never take over the individual's responsibility for his or her actions, but with joint efforts we can prevent the risks of crime. We can clear paths towards an honest life. We must do our utmost to break the segregation. Sweden can do better when it comes to this. To comment briefly on the motions that are on the table today, I would like to add the following. As far as gang crime is concerned, we welcome the investigation into increased penalties for crime in criminal networks and the proposals made there. Several of the investigation's proposals are aimed precisely at tightening the penalties for crimes committed in criminal networks. Pending the preparation of these proposals in the Government Office, we do not believe that further initiatives are now required on the part of Parliament. As far as multiple crime is concerned, the government has already set up an investigation to consider and propose changes to criminal law that express a stronger view of multiple crime. This work is under way and does not need to be pushed on by an announcement from the Riksdag. We therefore feel that we do not have any reason to support motions which once again call for what is already being prepared. Finally, I would like to say something about sexual crimes. I and my party welcome the proposal in the 2020 sex crime investigation to raise the minimum penalty for rape from two to three years in prison. There will also be a bill on the matter that will be submitted to Parliament this spring. We also welcome the sexual crime investigation's proposal to raise the scale of penalties for the purchase of sexual acts by raising the minimum penalty from a fine to a prison sentence for at least six months. The Government has announced that a bill with such a proposal will be submitted to the Riksdag this spring. As regards the motion for a new penalty for aggravated sexual harassment, it can be noted that the sexual offence investigation also makes such a proposal. Madam President, I would like I support the reservations on which we have a so-called false majority, that is to say, the ruling in this House is in a position to be different from that in committee. I would ask you to accept reservations 2, 9, 19 and 51.
i-EC3aXTWTDNtYVvQTVmjr1f	Madam President, I would like Today, Chief of National Police Anders Thornberg was on the Justice Committee. He has talked to the police who have been in place in the various parts of Sweden that have been affected by riots. He described how police officers told us that the sky was black with stones, that they thought they were going to die and that they had not experienced anything like it. A cop got a rock in his head and passed out. Then the stone stones applauded. Many of those who participated in the riots were previously known by the police and have links to gang criminals. But there were also people who were not previously known by the police: women, the elderly, and children who threw stones with their parents. Some people now want to talk about the police's decision to allow Paludan's Koran fires, that it should have been elsewhere and that it should be banned. Moving the focus from Sweden's real problems to discussing the limits of freedom of expression is nothing more than relativising and smoothing over the violence we have seen. Right now it is not about the limits of freedom of expression. At the moment, it is a matter of seeing in our suburbs a glowing police hatred and contempt for the Swedish rule of law. These are symptoms of very big problems. The state has lost control in some areas. Violent riots, illegal roadblocks and parallel legal systems exist, and people dare not testify. In parts of Sweden, the rule of law has been abolished. In parts of our country, Swedish law does not apply. Instead, it is the one with the most violent capital that decides, and we see the rule of law retreating. The only way forward to a society that holds together is total zero tolerance against this type of violent riot against freedom of expression, the Swedish rule of law and the Swedish police. All participants shall be taken into custody, detained and sentenced for crimes. In cases of urgency, expulsion should, of course, take place. This report deals with many proposals that would strengthen the Swedish rule of law. A majority in the committee wants to criminalise illegal roadblocks, but that is what the government and the government base with the Center Party say no to. A majority in the committee wants to increase the penalties for violence against officials. This may seem particularly appropriate in the light of what has happened this weekend, but this is what the government says with the government base together with the Center Party against. A majority in the committee wants to impose detention sentences on socially dangerous criminals, but that is what the government says with the government base together with the Center Party against. In September, the Swedish people have the opportunity to say yes to this – say yes to taking back control of the whole of Sweden. Madam President, I would like The right to life and property are fundamental starting points for the rule of law and democracy. These fundamental rights mean that one should also be able to defend oneself against others who want to harm one's person or one's property. Today, the legal emergency court is relatively small. Anyone who is subjected to a potentially fatal attack today has a duty to flee rather than resort to violence if this risks endangering the attacker's life. It is neither reasonable nor fair to have to put yourself at risk nor to be afraid of making mistakes and to be sentenced to prison when defending oneself against an attack. The emergency court must therefore be strengthened. With these words, I would like to ask for reservation 31 in paragraph 39 from, among other things, the Moderates on strengthening the right of defence.
i-XhJWrVtq23Dh5RcViFn3EX	Madam President, I would like It would have been strange and, in my view, almost inappropriate not to start my speech in this debate on criminal matters by commenting on the violent riots that have taken place in the near future. Sweden has literally been on fire on the past Easter weekend. In several parts of the country, large groups have gathered to throw stones and molotov cocktails at the police and set fire to everything from buses to school buildings. The rioters have shown total indifference to the lives and property of individual policemen as well as private individuals. In many cases, there has been an obvious purpose to cause serious harm. In total, at least 26 police officers have been injured and about 40 people arrested or arrested, and a few of them have been arrested. The reason behind the riots, which grazed entire districts, is decades of political incompetence and cowardice. An uncontrolled mass immigration along with non-existent demands for adaptation and a criminal policy suitable for the former, safe Sweden has resulted in the powder keg that has now been ignited around our country. The spark that ignited the powder sprayers was Danish politician Rasmus Paludan from Stram course. His unconventional approach to generating attention has consisted of giving speeches and burning Korans – or claiming that he will give speeches and burn Korans. These are two things that you have to do, even in public, if you have applied for and obtained permission for it. Think what you want about the approach, I choose other means myself, but he may have managed to make his points. When police officers are forced to retreat, get injured, get their equipment stolen and their cars burned up has something broken in Sweden. The majority society has given way to the minaret community. Parallel societies have established dominance and demonstrated that it is not the state that owns the monopoly of violence in their areas. Fundamental rights have been compromised. Madam President, I would like We can't have that. The Swedish Democrats are working for more police with better tools and resources. In riots like this, the police, in addition to more colleagues on the scene, needed water cannons, rubber bullets and properly with tear gas to suppress the violent workers at a distance. In addition, they had to know that politics has their backs when they use their monopoly of violence. That is not the case today. Several politicians seem to take it more seriously that someone says he's going to burn a book than that violent men burn police vehicles on line. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats today presented a 30-point action programme which, if it became a reality, had put an end to similar riots in the future and ensured that we regain control of these areas. It is a broad package, and not all measures fall within the remit of the Committee on Justice. The reason why I am referring to it now is that the riots of this weekend and the causes of them very much concern many of the criminal issues we are debating today, as previous speakers have also mentioned. The report contains, among other things, the issue of violence against officials. In the violent riots that we have seen now, the crimes have mainly been violent riots and bluster abotage, but there are also milder types of threats and violence against officials than the ruthless violence that took place during the weekend. This is regulated in Chapter 17 of the Criminal Code. Paragraph 1 and anyone convicted of assaulting an official in the exercise of his official authority is today sentenced to a fine or imprisonment for a maximum of two years. The committee considers this, once again, to be far too low a penalty. Fines should not be found on the scale of punishment when someone has exercised violence against an official, but it should be clear that the penalty will be prison. That is why we want to see our own criminal classification for violence against officials because it is, in all material respects, a more serious crime than a threat. As is well known, anyone has worked to seriously obstruct or hinder emergency or law enforcement activities, but there is, in the committee's view, a shortcoming in the border zone between these two criminal offences. I am pleased that we in committee have found support for this, but it is a pity that we do not have this majority in this House. Here, the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Left Party and the Green Party will vote against our proposal, which is why, in the future, violence against, for example, a police force will also be possible, but will still only be fined. Madam President, I would like In addition to this part of the report, I would like to touch on our proposal for civil courage legislation. It touches the same theme. The civil courage of law - abiding citizens is incredibly important, not least in the suburbs. When people with sound values and standards dare to speak up, dare to stand up to what is wrong and dare to intervene and stop crime, it is a central, norm-making function for the environment. When crime is suppressed, then good social citizens are raised and security and belonging to society is built. Police, ambulances and fire brigades cannot and should not be everywhere all the time, and that is why we, as fellow human beings, should act with civil courage. Unfortunately, civil courage has had to stand back, probably more and more as a consequence of the increasing violence, but also because of the increasing segregation which restricts our membership. In the worst cases, it is portrayed in the filming or photographing of victims of crime or distress by passers-by rather than receiving relief and help. Civil courage comes from values, culture and civil society, not mainly from politics, but something we think we can do. Therefore, the Swedish Democrats and Christian Democrats propose the introduction of civil courage legislation. I would also like to endorse that particular reservation, number 26. With the proposals that the Swedish Democrats have in the criminal justice field together with our other policies, Sweden could have met a different future. It would be a future without Koran riots and a future in which the majority society establishes dominance and secures the monopoly of violence.
i-L2DwfYVHowv93qVd8G1yx7	Madam President, I would like We are debating motion reports on criminal matters. There are a large number of exercises that have been received and that we are now dealing with, and many are very good. I would also like to thank you for the support that many colleagues have shown for the Center Party's movements in this area. The Center Party has to a large extent the focus on perhaps the most vulnerable. We have a lot of ideas on how we can fight sexual crime against children, the purchase of sexual acts by children aged 15 to 17, pandering, sexual crimes on the Internet that we debated recently and more. I would like to highlight two points that I think are particularly important. One thing is not our idea from the beginning. Perhaps I have found it difficult to assess the scale of the problem. That is what is called transformation therapy, that is to say, that you claim to be able to influence, above all, LGBTQ people to not have what you consider to be a sexual abnormality. This is a practice that exists around the country and must be suppressed. It is above all the People's Party and the Liberals who have pushed forward on this issue, I confess. I would like to thank them for the work they have done, because it is extremely important. I believe that more and more people are going to find that this is something that we need to address, not least with the MUCF report on the subject that came last winter and that highlights the problem. I hope that more people will eventually join the exercise. The idea is to try to develop a ban on so-called transformation therapy. The other thing that I want to highlight is what is called sex somnia. A strange condition, it may seem. Ekott did an audit – I think it was 2016 – where they mapped 20 or if there were 18 rape sentences. 10 of them were released, and in 5 of these cases the perpetrator had referred to the act being committed in his sleep. This has been reviewed by international researchers in the field, who are researching somnambulism and other things. They say that it may be that someone commits various sexual acts in their sleep but that nothing indicates that this would have been the case in these particular court cases. I do not wish to comment on the judges, but it is important for law enforcement authorities to be given the opportunity to understand what this is about so that we do not end up in a practice where one can blame that one slept when one committed a crime. What if we were to apply it to bank robbery or anything? You were sleepwalking when you did it, which is why you should avoid punishment. This is not how we can do it, Madam President. That is why I am in favour of our reservation 16 on sex somnia. It is a good thing to tell as a politician what you want to do and not just what you don't want to do. But I would like to highlight an example of things that we do not agree to today. It's about illegal roadblocks. It may seem lawful to want to curb such use. However, we had this on the agenda a few years ago, and when we analysed the legal situation, we found that there is already a good opportunity to prosecute this type of crime in current law. There may be at least four different laws and regulations – illegal coercion, sabotage, disorder or even traffic regulations. It could be the crime of public status, i.e. of pretending to be a police officer. If you want to access the illegal roadblocks, it is much easier – given that we have a limited time here on earth – to change one of those laws instead of introducing a whole new crime for illegal roadblocks. Other things that we do not agree to today relate to matters where the preparation is well advanced. Then there is no reason to make a new announcement, because we have a product very close to Parliament's table. When we introduce new laws, it is important that we evaluate them and see what they lead to, what their effect may be, before we begin to construct new ones. Sometimes it feels like there is constant pressure on, above all, sharper penalties. The government is tightening up the penalties, and then we have a new debate that is still about tightening up the penalties when we do a penalty, without seeing what it has led to. It is possible that one has moral reasons for always wanting higher penalties. However, if you always have higher penalties on just all issues, we will lose the important aspect of the penalty that is proportionality, where we think some crimes are more serious than others. That is the main reason why we do not agree to it.
i-3vqE3TCvibccgM7eqTLBi6	Madam President, I would like Did you know that the crime victim's infidelity can lead to reduced punishment for the offender? Imagine that a woman who lives with a destructive and violent man who abuses her would cheat on her and that the man who abuses her — that is, the perpetrator, the one who commits the crime — could refer to the woman's infidelity as an offensive behavior and then receive a lower penalty. Today, it's in the 29th chapter. Section 3 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, a letter of relief, and through various changes in the law, the reason why someone else's obviously offensive behaviour has come to mean infidelity. This is not reasonable, especially as we know how few reports of men's violence against women result in a conviction. It was probably never meant that the legislation would end up where it has now ended up when the government made these changes to the legislation in 2010. The purpose of the Government's proposal was to increase the impact of both aggravating and mitigating circumstances in the assessment of criminal offences in general. The first paragraph of the provision was amended so that, instead of being induced by someone else's grossly offensive behaviour, the offence was caused by someone else's obvious offensive behaviour. You know, legal-technical things that are needed in legislation. Cases where abuse has been preceded by infidelity or immoral behaviour on the part of the victim have also historically been treated more mildly. However, with the 2010 amendment, it has become clear in the legislation that provocations of lesser strength are also covered by the current penalty base. The Left Party believes that it is unreasonable for the plaintiff's infidelity or otherwise immoral behaviour to be given legal relevance and to be the basis for the relief of sentences. That is how legislation is interpreted today. There are other contexts in which offensive behaviour should be taken into account in the assessment of the penalty value. We know that legislation is not black or white. This may, for example, be a case in which the defendant has previously been abused and then assaults his perpetrator. However, it cannot, in our opinion, be assumed to be the legislator's view that infidelity should be taken into account as an extenuating circumstance. Therefore, we believe that the government should set up an investigation of Chapter 29. Section 3 of the Criminal Code on manifestly offensive conduct in order to make it clear that infidelity must not be taken into account as a mitigating factor in the court's assessment of the penalty value. I'm in favour of reservation 43. There are many good proposals in the report on the criminal procedure that we are discussing today, but we choose to ask for the approval of reservation 43 only.
i-VKVmMfKDFUtPZQotDKFFEE	Madam President, I would like Sweden should be a safe country to live in, whether you live in the countryside, in a city or in a suburb. A functioning judicial society requires that those who break the law are prosecuted and punished. This is important in order to protect law-abiding, restore victims and establish a signal system for what is right and what is wrong, but also to enable the offender to pay for his crime. As previous speakers have said, the report we are now debating, Criminal matters, contains 13 announcements to the government. Of these, 9 have a majority, of which 3 we fully agree. And so, as has been said, 4 has a false majority. I will briefly touch on some of the areas in question. The number of sex offences reported has increased sharply in the last ten years. The clearance rate for these crimes is around 20%. According to the latest safety survey, 5.6 per cent of all Swedes report that they have been subjected to sexual offences. Sexual crimes mainly affect women. More than 20 percent of all women worry about being exposed to sex crimes, and 38 percent of all women feel insecure if they go out into their own residential area late in the evening. This is unacceptable. Society's response to sexual crime must be unambiguous and powerful. Sexual crime is a gross violation of personal integrity. Further tightening of the penalties is needed. The announcements we have about, among other things, increased penalties for rape and the purchase of sexual acts by children show that what has been done so far is not enough but that further action is needed in this area. Madam President, I would like In another area, theft crime, this is something that needs to be combated much more effectively than today. Thefts of cars, boat engines, car parts and agricultural machinery, as well as other theft crimes, individuals and companies cause great damage and contribute to increased insecurity in society. Once a person is prosecuted and convicted for one or more crimes, the penalties must capture the seriousness of the crimes. Behind every undisclosed housing offence are victims who have suffered a violation of privacy through the crime and then encounter a judicial system that is not perceived to react sufficiently strongly. Although some changes have been made, we and the majority in committee do not think that that is enough. There is a need for tightening up, and that is why one of the announcements is about stricter penalties for grand theft. Madam President, I would like As many speakers before me have noted, in recent days we have seen events that constitute attacks on vital social functions. This shows how vulnerable you are when you have a central function in our society. It is unacceptable that you, as a police officer, a firefighter or a health professional, risk both your health and your life in the social function you have. For more than a decade, a new type of crime has established itself in Sweden. These are crimes against emergency vehicles such as fire trucks, police cars and ambulances. There are also attacks on public transport and against social services and hospitals. According to a report from the Police Federation, seven out of ten police officers experience increased exposure to threats and violence in the last two years. The events of the last few days show what is going on in our society. Criminals arrested also threaten police officers by telling them that they know where they live and know their family members. This is something that society must react sharply to. The state of law is threatened when a police officer is threatened. However, attacks on vital social functions do not stop at social services or the police. Threats to healthcare professionals also increase in hospitals in several major cities around Sweden. All in all, all of this contributes to a concerted attack on vital social functions, which seriously break down basic norms in society. In the case of attacks on persons employed in vital functions, penalties should be increased, especially when the attacks are organised. Offences against vital functions of society should be a special penalty. Strong action is needed to address the problems. In the light of this, I would like to vote in favour of reservation 24. Madam President, I would like The penalties should also be tightened for serious organised crime. The Christian Democrats believe that those who commit crimes within the framework of organised crime must receive considerably increased penalties. In our world around us, there are many successful examples of this. In Denmark, for example, there is the possibility of imposing double penalties on those who commit crimes within the framework of organised crime. The penalties must be substantially tightened. We also want to see an opportunity to ban criminal organisation. This, of course, needs to be carefully investigated as it requires a constitutional change. However, we believe that this is justified because serious organised crime is gaining a stronger grip on society. The committee also shares the concern about serious organised crime, and one of the announcements concerns increased penalties for serious organised crime. Madam President, I would like It is also important to tighten the penalties for drug offences. The sanctions are currently too low for serious drug offences. Whoever sells drugs needs a severe punishment. We believe that the scale of penalties for serious and particularly serious drug offences should be increased. We Christian Democrats believe that the development that has taken place in relation to, among other things, increased serious crime, but also crime that affects ordinary citizens, such as theft and sexual abuse, requires an update of criminal law. We see this in the area we are debating today. Unfortunately, despite great pledges, today's S-government has failed to solve the task of repressing the various forms of crime and fully re-establishing the security of our society. For me, this means that there is a need for a new government with an increased focus on these issues. We Christian Democrats support the announcements made in the report and support the proposals and reservations we have put forward, but, as I said, we only ask for reservation 24.
i-Uej7iKTEG92xaTiFBgB6dn	Madam President, I would like We support all our reservations in the report on penitentiary, but we only call for reservations 22 on Assistant Supervisors and 24 on the presumption of conditional release. What exactly is the aim of criminal policy? It is, of course, a question of preventing and reducing crime. But anyone who believes that crime can only be punished away makes it very easy. Of course, we need effective sanctions for those who commit crimes. It is about taking responsibility for your actions and that society is clearly on the side of the victim. Over time, legal systems and legislation therefore need to be reviewed. But criminal policy is not just police, penitentiary and justice. It is also labour market, education, social policy, childcare, etc. In the strong society everyone has a place, contributes according to ability and feels secure in that society is there when I need it. A community that stays together, where children and young people are allowed to grow up and develop in safe environments, is the best vaccine against crime. In the debates so far, there has been a great deal of focus from many quarters on the enforcement of penalties, penalties and penalties. But I hear very little about what we should do to reduce inflows and create greater security and security. The most important thing for the penitentiary is to see the human being. We must never forget it. Our responsibility, as a society, is to be not only those who judge, punish and point the finger, but also those who help to include and provide the conditions for not getting into crime. And for those who end up in crime, there should be opportunities to get back into the community. This is our common duty and responsibility if we want to make a serious contribution to change and improvement. The Government has therefore, among other things, commissioned the Prison Service to further develop its relapse prevention work. The Agency will analyse how the work can be better adapted to the different needs and prerequisites of all convicted persons. Prison services shall pay particular attention to the needs of young people convicted. The importance of civil society cannot be stressed enough both in society at large and in prison. For 2022, the allocation for organisations operating in detention centres and institutions has been increased. The commitment and willingness of the organisations to make efforts in the prison system and for the inmates is great, and this is a very valuable addition to the prevention of relapses. Madam President, I would like The situation in prisons and prisons is currently strained. As new legislation with penalties and new criminal offences is introduced, the pressure on the prison system increases. Some fifty projects are under way or planned around the country. The number of places in detention centres and prisons has increased in recent years, and the agency expects an increase of 3,500 permanent places by 2031, including 900 in detention centres and 2,600 in prisons. The capacity of outpatient care will also increase significantly in the coming years. To make this possible, the government has provided substantial resources. Since 2015, the funds allocated by the Correctional Service have increased by 55 per cent or more than SEK 4.3 billion. If there is to be additional resources in the future – we know there is a need – the government is prepared to look at this. But just as important as the government and parliament spending resources is to ensure that every invested tax chandelier is used in the best way. Madam President, I would like Together with the work to increase the number of places, the Prison Service's major challenge is to cope with the skills supply – to recruit and train new employees and also to retain those they have. It is very important here that the trade unions are involved in the strategic and daily work. It is the employees closest to the clients who are the most important resource in creating good content for the inmates, and it is also those who are exposed to the greatest risks in their work. The dynamic security work of the Correctional Service is an important part of ensuring that employees feel safe and have a good working environment. Madam President, I would like The report on penitentiary treatment deals with 140 requests from the general period of exercise. Several of the announcements or calls made are for the government to do what the government has already done for a long time. We in this Assembly have the task and responsibility to both show differences in our different positions and contribute to a calm and respectful dialogue and a willingness to find common ground. And, as my party partner Gustaf Lantz used to say: It exists, but it is not always visible. The debate and tone are often polarised and simplified. The reality contains far more nuances than what is often white or black in this House. We will probably hear from a number of quarters in the further debate that nothing is done, that too little is done or that the wrong things are done and definitely that what is done is done far too late. We will certainly also be told – we have already heard this – that everything is the fault of immigration or the fault of immigrants. To see the reality as it is is both about taking people's concerns seriously and about seeing the very good done by individuals and society every day. This should be the starting point for us to be able to do what is necessary to create a safer and safer Sweden for everyone.
i-PQD9xdTct6HPfGZqkoxm1a	Madam President, I would like So now we are going to debate the motion report on penitentiary issues. We Moderates have many good proposals, but I only support reservation 5. I cannot take up all our proposals, so I have selected a few. Sweden should have a modern and efficient prison care with high security, meaningful operations and clear requirements and rules. In line with Moderates' efforts on the police and our proposed punitive measures, even more will be in prison. Prison time should follow the verdict quickly and mark the end of the convicted person's criminal course. It is clear that more places are needed in detention centres and prisons. The current situation in the Prison Service, with a great lack of space in both detention centres and prisons, is due to the failure of the Social Democrats to act. Madam President, I would like Youth delinquency is very serious. It is enough to look back for a few days and see what happened during Easter. There were violent riots in Örebro, Norrköping, Linköping and Malmö. Youths attacked policemen and threw large street stones in the head of policemen only for the purpose of harming or even killing police officers. A Molotov cocktail was thrown into a bus where there were people. It was a wonder nobody got hurt in the bus. So, what's wrong with these people? How can people be so indifferent to the lives of others — people who have done them no harm? Something is seriously wrong with the head of the one throwing a bomb into a bus. That's what I think, and that's what I stand for. It is not people who do this for socio-economic reasons, but criminals who do not accept Swedish democracy, where even an idiot from Denmark, if I may say so, can make his voice heard. If you do not accept this, perhaps you should move to another country where democracy does not apply. Madam President, I would like In almost all debates, Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson usually says that we Moderates have no proposals in terms of crime prevention. It's all wrong. The growing group of young adults with high violence capital who have low confidence in society and its authorities and who have no interest in leaving crime behind is a major social problem. The majority of these have an immigrant background, in the vulnerable areas. That is why migration must be very low for a long time, simply to catch up with integration, with which the Social Democrats have completely failed. We heard Social Democrats Carina Ödbrink just now say that some will say that everything is the immigrants' fault. No, I'm not saying that. I do not believe that the Swedish Democrats are saying that either. It is not said that everything is the fault of immigrants, but it is also impossible to ignore what it looks like in the vulnerable areas. I think that the Social Democrats often turn a blind eye to this. You just have to say it like this, that's all. These young adults present new and difficult challenges for the prison services. We would like to instruct an investigator to take a concerted approach to this group of individuals, including on the basis of experience in other countries, with a view to proposing appropriate crime prevention measures and the content of penalties. It should then be adapted to this group. In fact, there is a great crime prevention measure: to take a concerted approach and make proposals for appropriate crime prevention measures and the content of penalties. And it should be adapted for young criminals. But this is against the Social Democrats. You will vote against it. Don't tell me we don't have crime prevention measures! We have. There are quite a few more. Carina Ödbrink says that for many it is only punitive, punitive and punitive. No, that's not true. We've got a lot on top of that. We Moderates want to lower the limit for the arrest of young people and set up juvenile detention centres and prisons. This is needed, among other things, in view of the gross youth robberies, which have increased avalanche, and youth robberies with humiliation. In fact, it must be closed with the young felons. Society must be on the side of victims. Arrests are an important tool and a prerequisite for investigating and combating crime. Young people who are arrested for very serious crimes can, in principle, expire only a few hours afterwards. Some people don't even get interrogated until they're released. That's the wrong signal. They can thus be released even if they are likely to continue committing crimes at large, obstruct the investigation by frightening witnesses or plaintiffs to silence or destroying evidence. Therefore, we Moderates want the arrest of young offenders to take place in more cases than today when the crime is serious and there is a risk of relapse. Madam President, I would like In Sweden, a number of sentenced persons serving a prison sentence each year hold or depart from prison. In 2021 there were 80 deviations or escapes. Despite the legal obligation to serve time in prison, escape is not punishable. The sanctions for escape are limited, and the consequences are small. Ryming means that large resources are being used by the judiciary, which is already under strain. In addition, it is sometimes a question of people who can be dangerous in society. We Moderates have been working for many years to make it criminalised to escape, and now we are finally getting an announcement on this. I would like to conclude by saying that about 30% of all prisoners in Swedish prisons are foreign citizens, i.e. about 2,900 people. In 2021, only 90 people were transferred from Sweden to their home countries for the execution of prison sentences – 90 out of 2,900. It's far too few. For this reason, the K. Correctional Service should be given the task of significantly increasing the number of transfers of prisoners to their own home countries. This will also apply to countries outside the Nordic countries and the EU.
i-D9xbnpn23KmszsB1cwfMrN	Madam President, I would like We are debating criminal matters, that is to say, the motions received during the general period of exercise, which relate to the mandate and efforts of the Prison Service. As we can see in the report, there are a great many motions that have become reservations. The Committee on Justice also proposes quite a few announcements to the government. The prison service is just like all other authorities in Sweden when it comes to our area very strained. Correctional services have gone up to staff because of overcrowding in institutions. We have double coatings in almost every room of our institutions. We have an extremely stressful occupancy rate, not only for the inmates but also for those working in prison. Incidents are increasing due to overcrowding. The fact that this is the case in our institutions is, of course, due to the fact that we have a development in our country that is causing more people to commit crimes and that in this House we are tightening the penalties for what we consider unacceptable. The fact that we have such a society does not depend solely on immigration, but we can see that immigration is a contributing factor in the fact that we have a segregated society, a divided society that causes conflicts in terms of values. We can take this weekend's so-called Koran riots as a very close example of crimes that occur and that should – and hopefully do so – cause more people to sit in prison. But when it comes to criminal matters in general, we hear from the Social Democrats that we may not be so inconsistency on these issues, that we may be seeking conflict where there is no need for conflict and that the government takes these issues seriously. But when it comes to a lot of announcements, we see that you don't. Ellen Juntti, the Moderates, was up here and said: Finally we have an announcement to criminalize escapes. Then I thought: No, maybe not at last, because we have had announcements since 2020. This will thus be the third time that the Riksdag will make an announcement to the government about criminalising escapes and deviations. It's the third announcement to the government. The answer, which we get from the red-green parties in their reservation, about why they do not want to criminalise escapes is that they think it is enough that they can postpone the parole of those who deviate or who try to escape or who run away. It is sufficient that a possible impact be made on lock-out measures or leave for those in prison. This is considered by the government to be sufficient consequences for those who choose to escape or try to escape or who deviate. It is not at all the same as criminalising the act itself – escaping or digressing. Madam President, I would like I happen to live next door to one of our prisons in Sweden, namely Hällbyanstalten outside Eskilstuna. It wasn't that long ago that a couple of individuals tried to escape from Hällbysanstalten. They took personnel hostage under very dramatic conditions. It is, of course, criminal in itself to take personnel hostage. But I think that when you see the possibility of escape, you may not be able to imagine exactly what events will happen during an attempt to escape. Then you may commit more serious crimes and endanger other people's lives in an attempt to escape because of the consequences that come. To criminalise escapes right from the start and to be very clear that it should be a criminalised act in itself, I think is an important measure to indicate that this should not even be possible. It should not even be desirable to try, i.e. to believe that if you succeed you will be free, but this should be criminalised in itself. There is a very clear difference between the very reservation that exists from the government parties and what the Swedish Democrats and a majority in this House think. Even the Green Party is now in favour of criminalising escapes and deviations. It should surely cause the government to wake up a little when the Green Party turns around on this issue. But we also have other issues that have been as topical and that we have repeated over the years. Since 2015, we have an opportunity to send out EU citizens so that they can serve the sentences in their home countries. It is a question of mutual recognition and enforcement of sanctions within the EU. It should therefore automatically be possible for all EU citizens who commit crimes in Sweden to begin serving their sentences immediately in their home countries. But there we see that it has been a faulty job for many years. This came into place in 2015, and we have seen that there are only a few transfers of EU citizens who commit crimes in our country and who are also convicted in Sweden. It should, of course, be a more advanced work on the part of the government, even when it comes to countries outside Europe. Unfortunately, we have very many foreigners who come to Sweden and who commit very serious crimes and who sit in our prisons. I'm afraid that's what it looks like. One of the announcements that Parliament wants to address to the Government is this. I may not have time to go through everything before the evening is too late, but we also have the introduction of a national defector programme as a preventive part of the work. The government has replied that it considers that this has been met. But we do not have a national defector programme, but the government pushes the municipalities over. There are, therefore, conflicts on several of these issues that are quite clear. I am therefore a little surprised to hear from the Social Democrats that there is consensus and ongoing work on almost all of the issues on which we wish to address announcements to the government. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to express my support for one of the reservations that the Swedish democrats share, namely reservation number 19 on renting prison places abroad. This is something Norway has done during a period when they had a high occupancy rate in Norwegian institutions, to temporarily manage that peak. It's an opportunity. This is not something you need to do, but we think that Sweden should look at and open up to this possibility so that we too, in a situation with a very high occupancy rate in our institutions that can create troubled situations, can in a short time rent places in other countries to ease the pressure on our institutions.
i-562M1rjQmRi86y3pqFZEEJ	Madam President, I would like A couple of years ago, we had the then Director General of the Prison Service visiting the Committee on Justice. I remember asking if the relapse prevention programmes were effective, and he replied that they are if the prisoners are justified. Then I have thought very much about how important the motivation is – that you actually want to change your life and jump on a new path, from a destructive existence. For many, a prison stay is a time under the control of the K Correctional Service, where for the first time you have some structure on your life. We sometimes have an out-of-date and wrong view of the prison sentence as just a punishment. In fact, it is also an opportunity for many people. I hope, Madam President, that this can be an opportunity for even more people. It is unfortunate to see that certain aspects of the prison service's activities are backing back a little. I am thinking, among other things, of spiritual care, which is probably an important part. It is important for all of us, but many problems that can be small in the free life of people who feel good and work well can be very big problems in an environment where you have strong restrictions and you may be affected by various addiction diseases or other things that make you in severe imbalance. I would therefore like to endorse reservation No 8 on spiritual care, which I believe is extremely important. I think it's important to everyone and that we miss out on that aspect of life when we have our focus on a lot of other things that at the moment seem more important. What many suffer from and we have been dealing with are addiction diseases and how we treat them. I believe that we need to face a revolution throughout society in the way we treat addiction and addiction diseases. We need to use the tools available and see it as really a disease, and I actually mean somatic disease. A person who has been involved in opiate addiction for many years has changes in the brain, where the receptors are affected. It can be a chronic disease that man will suffer from and need treatment for his whole life. It is not something you can cure, certainly not in a short time and perhaps not even for a little longer. I think we must have that insight, Madam President. It is a problem that affects many inmates in our prisons, and I hope that, by the next general period of exercise, we will be able to deal with a number of proposals on how, with greater, better and more powerful means, we can really tackle the enormous social problem of addiction. This is particularly true of those who, because of their addiction diseases, commit criminal acts and end up under the supervision of the Prison Service. I would also like to mention a number of points that have been discussed here before, namely the criminalisation of escapes and anomalies. I've been a little hesitant about how we're going to deal with it, but I'm thinking that could be reasonable. In fact, it is reasonable to criminalise something as flagrant as it is against what the state has condemned. At the same time, there is an aspect of efficiency in this. A legal process required to convict someone for the offence deviation or escape has completely different requirements for legal certainty. It is a process with an administrative cost and burden, a main negotiation with legal assistants and a lot more to be done to be able to judge someone for the crime. Under current law, the prison service has long-standing powers to take disciplinary action without any judicial review. To back away from this is actually to make it softer and offer the inmate a greater opportunity to explain away the behavior than is currently the case. I therefore believe that we should continue to punish escapes and deviations with the disciplinary measures imposed by the prison services. For example, it may be postponing release, and it can be a serious postponement if you feel that it is needed. There may be reduced opportunities for leave, if any. One thing that I think is particularly important is to move the inmate to a higher security facility. A crushing majority of the escapes and deviations that occur are deviations from, above all, Class 3 institutions, where it is basically just to leave. The threat of being transferred to an institution with much higher security might be more dissuasive than the criminal value that might be involved in such a type of regulatory product. You can also imagine other restrictions on privileges that you can no longer have. I therefore believe, Madam President, that this kind of disciplinary action can be a more powerful instrument than a criminalisation of escape. But if the government puts a proposal on Parliament's table, I promise to look at it.
i-R2Kr947BNqxMeMPVPqTCuZ	Madam President, I would like I applauded earlier in the Chamber following Carina Ödebrink's speech. I would like to point out that I support the positions of principle that she expressed very strongly. It was important, and I would have liked to have used those words myself. Another thing that Carina did, which I also think was important, was to highlight what is the purpose of the prison system and, in fact, also of criminal law, which we discussed earlier. It is to mark something, but when something has gone wrong you should ensure that you reduce relapses in crime and that you create something that is safer and safer both for the individual and for society. An attempt should be made to give the best possible effort to ensure that those convicted of a crime can live in compliance with the law, both for themselves and for our society as a whole. In the case of prisons, which I will touch on some now, it is about being law-abiding both during prison and after. The Left Party has many proposals on both treatment in prison and rehabilitation. One is what some have touched on, namely that it is very crowded in our prisons. It could be a big gain with early parole to get a good inclusion in the community for the inmate, and you can start a lock-in earlier than thought if, for example, you have gone through a treatment program. It would also have a positive effect on the release of prison places and on some of the overcrowding. This has been debated earlier by my party colleague Linda Westerlund Snecker. I would now like to highlight another issue that we have raised in a motion and in reservation 21, namely the issue of victims' locks. It shows that we want a widening and a national standard for the work of victims' locks. What, then, is this? I have been able to follow this work after some female correctional officers discovered that there could be major conflicts when an inmate was to be visited. It could be that a former victim, a plaintiff, was expected to come to prison. It could have been abuse where there has been men's violence against women and children, and where the woman has felt pressured and not dared to break up and came to prison. It could then be loaded situations. There could also be situations where one was worried about children visiting the prison. Was it safe, and was it possible to take responsibility for this on the part of the penitentiary? At that time, this was created with victims' locks. This meant that you would have contacts early to see if you could accept that there was a visit and then you also felt that you could guarantee that this was safe and secure. For many women and children, this also meant an opportunity for someone to slow down and for the authority to say no, which one as a party and the victim concerned was unable to do on their own. It has also led to the fact that in the situations where the visits were carried out, it was made for discussions that the inmate would take responsibility for his crime, and it could be a processing that thus had a preventive effect and of course also had a positive effect on the former plaintiff and victim. This is now available in certain institutions. We think it is something that would be very important to develop and establish in additional institutions. We are doing this as a way of pointing out that there are effective crime prevention measures that can be implemented during the time of punishment and which can be much more humane and effective than more severe penalties, which we all seem to have hopes for would make society safer. In fact, we know from research that there is no evidence of this. We must find alternative ways, and there are several of them. And now I am highlighting the victims' lock for this purpose.
i-RDTrQGv9sGJEdWVkq6Lm2R	Madam President, I would like The imperfectness of man may not be difficult to agree with when we look around us and also in our world. As many have mentioned, we can see that the riots of the last few days provide further examples of this. This insight provides a basis for Christian Democratic justice policy. Crime has always existed, and it is a primary task for the state to strive to limit crime as far as possible and to do justice. We Christian Democrats also see that the important role of the family must be strengthened. Safe families provide a safe society. We are now debating penitentiary issues. This should be done in the light of the fact that there will be enough places to cover the increased need for place when the justice system now ensures that more criminals are arrested and convicted, but also that we ensure that the time in prison becomes a time when a criminal path can be broken and the sentenced person gets support and motivation to change and leave a criminal life choice. The time when the sentence is served shall be used in a meaningful way. Treatment against alcohol and drug abuse, education and work training should be provided. Anstaltes should be kept drug-free. The release must be prepared in good time. The efforts and support of civil society as well as the possibility of spiritual care should be provided. In order to avoid relapses, the frivolous person should be helped to obtain housing, work or other useful employment. It is also important for the social network to be strengthened. Investing in the penal system must be seen as a way, and focused on, of reducing crime in the future. We note that, in this area too, a majority of the Committee on Justice believes that more can be done than has been done so far and more than what the government has proposed and achieved to date. Today's report contains eight announcements that underline this. Two are false, but two are behind a united committee. Madam President, I would like In today's Sweden, it does not give any further penalty to make an attempt to escape or escape during the institution period. We Christian Democrats, like a majority in committee, believe that escape and attempted escape should be criminalised. The scope for sanctions is currently limited, and the impact on the individual is small. Ryming often involves the mobilisation of large resources from various parts of the already heavily strained judicial system. Moreover, in many cases these are people who have been sentenced to long prison sentences for serious crimes and who can be dangerous in society. Anyone who escapes from a prison sentence signals that he or she does not support the foundations of the rule of law and does not take the punishment for the damage and suffering caused to the victims. It is a reprehensible behaviour against which, like many other reprehensible behaviours, it should be marked by criminalisation in law. In the announcement, a majority of the committee proposes that the government should come back with a proposal in which escape and attempted escape from the penitentiary system should be criminalised. Madam President, I would like As a consequence of today's trend towards increased serious crime and a more effective and enhanced judicial system, the need for prison places has increased. The 2019 budget of the Christian Democrats and Moderates meant a strengthening of the Prison Service's budget by SEK 251 million, which gave increased opportunities to meet the challenges. However, Sweden needs more places in prisons and detention centres. The situation of the day is that the places of detention that exist are not enough. Correctional services have been forced both to overcrowding and to short-term measures to address the increased need. The penalties that have been proposed and which have also been implemented will lead to more people spending a longer time in prisons than now. The lack of prison places puts great strain on both the inmates and the staff and, of course, has a negative impact on the prevention of relapses. The development of institutions and the prevention of overcrowding are important. Lack of space must never be a reason to compromise public security, and the Prison Service must therefore be given the necessary resources to ensure that the capacity is sufficient. The government must assume its responsibilities and act, and we believe that the government must establish an action plan for how capacity will be greatly increased in the long term. Here, too, an almost entirely united committee wants to address an announcement to the government. For us Christian Democrats, it is also about seeing other ways of solving the emergency situation. In order to relieve the load, the Prison Service should be given the task of examining the possibility of renting places abroad. As has been mentioned before, we also believe that the foreign citizens convicted of crime in Sweden should, as a rule, serve their sentence in their home country. Today, as I have said, approximately 30% of prisoners in Swedish prisons are nationals of other countries. Sweden should therefore give priority to drafting agreements that ensure that these citizens serve their sentences in their home country. This is necessary in order to relieve the burden of both capacity and cost. Madam President, I would like Treatment against abuse is an important task for the Prison Service and it is therefore very worrying that the Prison Service has decided to phase out the use of the twelve-step programme. This decision is taken despite the good results of the twelve-step programme since its inception. It will now be replaced by a shorter, general CBT programme. In our view, we should have been able to combine instead of replacing, because it is a fact that 70% of inmates are deemed to have substance abuse problems. In some interviews, the programme manager has stated that the lack of space does not allow for this activity, although the programme is effective and good. In this context, I would like to thank my colleague, Johan Hedin, who has raised the issue of spiritual care. After all, man cannot live off bread alone and it is important to have the opportunity to develop the spiritual side when necessary. For the same reasons mentioned earlier, i.e. lack of space, there have been closures in this area – such as the monastery in Kumla. Spiritual care in prisons needs to be strengthened, not dismantled. These two measures add further weight to the need for a development strategy. Madam President, I would like As I mentioned at the outset, NGOs are an important part of this, and they should have a natural place in the reintegration of the sentenced both before and after their release. Civil society is already of great importance in the prevention of crime and in the reintegration of previously convicted persons. Associations should be encouraged to be present as part of life before and after release. We Christian Democrats see that civil society has great value. Its role must be reinforced more clearly in the field of crime prevention. We want to develop cooperation by, among other things, providing compensation to NGOs in relation to how well they are able to re-integrate previously convicted people. On this basis, I would ask for reservation 4. Madam President, I would like As today's report and debate show, there is a need for further activity both in terms of lack of space and in terms of reforming methods and treatment arrangements to break destructive lifestyles and drug addiction. We Christian Democrats support the announcements proposed in committee and, of course, the claims of the Christian Democrats themselves, but in this debate I only call for reservation 4, as I said.
