i-HDvifpYCTPrb4Mz8L4H3gw	Madam President, I would like Angelica Lundberg has asked me whether I intend to work towards abolishing the bag tax. Magnus Stuart has asked me whether I intend to evaluate the plastic bag tax on environmental benefits and revenues to the Treasury and whether I intend to allow the plastic bag tax to continue to exist. Helena Bouveng has asked me whether I intend to make any adjustments to the construction of the plastic bag tax and whether I intend to review the continued existence of the plastic bag tax. The aim of the tax is to achieve the EU consumption target for plastic carrier bags, thereby reducing the littering and spread of microplastics. The Packaging Directive requires Member States to reduce consumption to a maximum of 40 plastic carrier bags per person per year by the end of 2025. The consumption of plastic carrier bags is reported annually by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, and in this way we can see if we achieve the consumption target. The data for 2021 consumption are not yet complete but are expected to be presented later this spring. In 2020, consumption was 55 thin plastic carrier bags per person. According to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and IVL, which has carried out an evaluation on behalf of the Agency, the introduction of the tax has had a major impact on the consumption of plastic carrier bags in Sweden. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency estimates that the consumption target is within reach.
i-Y8YSDqavtPHt6Xhu3FM7hg	Madam President, I would like As a result of the January Agreement, a tax on plastic carrier bags was introduced in May 2020. The bags were taxed with 3 crowns each, and smaller, thinner bags used for fruit and green were taxed with 30 cents each. The Swedish democrats were already highly critical of the tax and pointed out that the environmental impact would not be achieved, that plastic bags sold in Sweden contribute very little to littering and that the fiscal impact would be much less than the government claimed. Now, quite exactly two years after the introduction, it can be said that we were right. The tax is a total flop in every way. Environmentally, tax is a flop. It was introduced on all Swedish plastic carrier bags without regard to how the bag is made. This means that recycled environmental cashiers are also included – yes, even fully compostable cashiers made from renewable raw material only. The reason was that they looked like plastic carrier bags. It's so stupid that there aren't words for it. Other types of plastic bags, such as those in which bread often comes in, are free of plastic tax. Even waste bags on rolls, often imported and made of fossil plastic, are tax-exempt, such as freezer bags, zipper bags and black garbage bags. What happens when you introduce such a misdirected treasure? In the past, the Swedish people carried their groceries in a Swedish-made bag of recycled plastic, which was then used to wear their children's swimwear before they put it in the bin at home and allowed it to be recycled again by becoming electricity and heat in a thermal power plant. Instead, the sales of paper bags have increased sharply. Why, then, is this bad? Well, paper bags require more energy in manufacturing and have very little use after carrying your food home in them. Already there they are worse for the environment. But in addition, paper bags take about eight times as much space as plastic bags. This leads to increased transport to shops, with a heavy environmental burden as a result. Furthermore, Madam President, the need for waste bags does not disappear simply because the government imposes a tax on carrier bags. The use of plastic bags on rolls has increased rapidly. This bag is tax-exempt and often imported and made of fossil plastic. As if this were not enough, all the plastic that was previously collected and recycled to become plastic bags must now be burned up or put on landfill in other countries. So there will be an environmental giant flop. Economically, the tax is also a flop. The government estimated that it would bring about 2.8 billion a year. Instead, the real outcome was about 300 million, i.e. 2 1⁄2 billion less than expected. This could have been foreseen by looking at other countries. But the government didn't see it coming. There are so many errors with this tax, Madam President, that no one can really want it left. The question is whether the government will start work on removing it now or whether we have to wait until we have a new government before we can abolish the inefficient plastic bag tax.
i-KBUTd1T5KK7RfKpPADL8wV	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. Unfortunately, it is only to be noted that the plastic bag tax has done nothing good for the climate, but rather the opposite. We see how the use of plastic bags has been drastically reduced in favour of simpler waste bags, as we heard earlier. The Swedish plastic carrier bags are usually made of renewable material, and a plastic bag is used several times before it becomes a garbage bag. Waste bags on rolls, on the other hand, are almost always produced in other countries and produced from fossil materials. Add to this the long transport routes. In Arvika there is one of the leading Swedish manufacturers of plastic carrier bags. When you introduced the plastic bag tax, the company lost 90% of its sales on the Swedish market, and it had to terminate 30% of Arvika's personnel, which was a dramatic change. Thirty people were laid off and without work. I'm thinking about this with plastic carrier bags. The Swedish-made products use up to 80 per cent recycled raw materials, which must be very smart in terms of circularity and from an environmental point of view. The tax was to remove the carpet from one of the companies that had achieved the very best in this industry. Does the Minister think that the plastic bag tax should remain, as it is today?
i-FQ5q7SCssw29ZQm8Tj1JrV	Madam President, I would like Sweden has major problems with low growth, high unemployment and a crime that reaches new heights every day. It is still a fundamental problem that it does not pay enough to go to work every day. At the same time, a lot of people feel that the government simply does not deliver what they can expect, whether it concerns health care, school, law enforcement or elderly care. This also applies to the green changeover. A few years ago, the government was perhaps not awarded the most flattering award of the Year's worst waste for its climate policy. Madam President, I would like The government says that the share of environmental taxes in tax revenues will increase through a strong green tax exchange with increased environmental taxes. It is tax increases that will contribute to increased employment while achieving climate and environmental objectives. That sounds good. But unfortunately, the Minister of Finance, looks a little different. The clear problem with the various so-called environmental taxes that the government has pushed through and continues to enforce is that they often have no or only marginal effect on environmental problems while at the same time inhibiting jobs and growth. The government has spent both its previous term of office and this term of office on introducing and increasing a number of taxes in the name of the environment which, in my opinion, hampers jobs, growth and innovation: aviation tax, fuel tax, chemical tax, waste incineration tax and plastic bag tax, to name a few. If I have understood correctly, the government has managed to raise a total of 46 taxes in the seven-and-a-half years of government power – taxes that distort Swedish competitiveness, hamper jobs and put a lid on the innovation power that has existed. Not least, it has been in the plastics industry, which has invested and managed to achieve circular plastic use in Swedish commerce and industry. Swedish producers of carrier bags take the lead and drive the development into a more sustainable society with great innovation capacity but are punished for this by the government's symbolic policy. Instead of encouraging innovation and supporting Swedish companies, the government chooses to distort competition for Swedish innovation power and favours foreign producers of environmentally inferior plastic bags on roll. Madam President, I would like For me, this is both remarkable and absurd. We are now seeing the results of the plastic bag tax. The Minister of Finance didn't even get his estimated tax revenue! It contributed a thumb, and this at the expense of both Swedish companies and the environment. Minister for Finance, isn't it high time to back up the band and stand up for Swedish innovation power?
i-VZ17JSevqdoH149rBebWoP	Madam President, I would like Thank you, other participants in the debate. Here comes a little new audience. We must note that the basis of the plastic bag tax is an EU directive on reducing the number of plastic bags by 90 bags per person. It is therefore a question of reducing litter as a result of the use of plastic bags. Now I'm 45 years old. When I was growing up, this plastic bag thing wasn't a big deal. When you went to the store it was pretty obvious that you brought your bags. I can take my own grandparents as an example. For them, it was obvious that one did not use a plastic bag, but one had with one's own, often homemade, bags. People have been doing this for generations. My parents have done the same, and I myself use my grandmother's sewn bags when I go shopping. Now we have heard a couple of interpellers mention the fiscal part, that is, the financial part, in relation to this tax. But the main purpose of the tax is not really to raise money but to change behaviour. I think that if my grandparents and my parents could manage to bring bags to the store when they were shopping, it would be strange if it would not be possible to ask it also of our generation and of your generation, you sitting in the gallery listening. It can't be completely impossible to change a behavior. What have been the effects of the tax? The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency notes that sales of plastic bags have decreased. It has been because the paper bags have increased sharply, as we have heard here before. Even if it is worse and thinner bags, it is a reduction in plastic use. And not to forget: The main purpose has actually been to reduce litter. This is on an individual level. But looking at a higher level, we can see that, for example, the use of plastic by municipalities is also decreasing and switching to other materials. We see this when it comes to, for example, the recycling of garbage. What about the use – how often do we use the paper bags we buy? Sifo has carried out a survey, and it turns out that among those who have responded to the survey, nine out of ten say that they have brought bags that they have bought before. Although the tax is now described as both an economic and an environmental failure, we can see that something happened to us as consumers when the tax was introduced. We're changing our behavior. Could previous generations manage to bring cloth bags, I think we could manage to do that in the future too. When it comes to innovation and doing important things for the environment, the plastic bag tax is a very small part. The great impact is on industry, to name a few. I come from Norrbotten, one of the counties that has really benefited from the government's climate and environmental policy. We've been at the forefront. Instead of saying, as Reinfeldt, that the base industry is a basically gone, the government has dared to invest in innovation and development, so that we are the world leader in climate change. It is a little bigger than just the plastic bag tax, which is a small detail in this context. I just want to say that.
i-EjAZ18daGJS8wn9jnTFekf	Madam President, I would like I am incredibly committed to Sweden's climate policy, that Sweden will become one of the first countries in the world to become completely climate neutral and the world's first fossil-free welfare country. I am happy to talk about innovation, development and new jobs in this climate change. I can only note that in Sweden we are praised internationally for our climate policy and for the change that has been achieved in reducing emissions over time as well as the large investment rate that is now in climate-neutral industries around Sweden. Sweden is a country that has decided to be at the forefront of the climate change transition. I think we are getting more and more evidence that the offensive climate and environmental policies also have an impact on growth and new jobs, because huge investments are being made in Sweden. In this large perspective, the plastic bag tax becomes very small. I will tell Members of Parliament that this is not an issue that I am very committed to. This isn't the question I'm getting started on the most. It's not a big tax revenue for society. Nor may it be the main question of principle whether to look at the development of a tax system. I understand that some parties make this a very big issue. It is a little hard to understand, but one can of course appoint all taxes. They have different weight for me and different meanings. I would like to return this discussion to the fact that Sweden is, after all, part of the European Union. We have now et EU directives that say that we should reduce the amount of plastic bags in Sweden quite radically. It's kind of a mission we have. There's a timetable. There is a commitment that Sweden will live up to, and then we will have to do so. If Members want something completely different from a plastic bag tax, they may well present other ideas so that Sweden can live up to the commitments that exist and that Sweden is bound by. That is probably the basic starting point of this. The basic starting point is therefore to reduce plastic consumption in society and thereby reduce litter in nature – mainly the spread of microplastics. It is a directive that lies. If you want to amend the directive, you can pursue this issue if you want, but as long as the directive is in place, Sweden will have to comply with it. One can always make fun of different taxes or say that they are unsuccessful, but that this has brought in less money than expected should be some kind of success, if you turn it around. This means that people have chosen not to buy plastic bags but to do otherwise, and thus the revenue to the state has become less than expected. The tax has thus reduced the use of precisely the plastic bags that the EU directive says we should reduce the use of. For me, this is not the biggest issue, although I think it deserves to be taken seriously from the perspective of reducing plastic use and thus littering in nature. However, if this had been the most important issue for the parties that are now involved, they would have been able to make the adjustment by the latest. After all, you made tax adjustments when you handled the budget last year, and then you would have been able to make this change. In that case, the plastic bag tax would not have been left. I therefore find it difficult to reconcile the tone and level of commitment with the importance of the issue. It is clear, however, that we have a job to do to bring down plastic use in society. This is a directive on which the EU has decided and which Sweden must comply.
i-VrK1etepMWser2i3wzd7fe	Madam President, I would like It's amazing that this is not a question that the Government will be bloody about – I think we simply sit down and take away the treasure! For I cannot understand in any way how one can defend the existence of this treasure. I do not know whether the Government has been helped by a party colleague here today just to try to explain why this tax should be kept. This is not a debate against her, but, since she is here, I still have to raise the following question. I wasn't there at the time when you brought your fabric bags to shop at the grocery store, but I wonder what you put your garbage in. You didn't throw the garbage in the fabric bag you had brought to the store to carry the goods home in; I'm sure of that. I must also ask why it is so important for the Social Democrats to change behaviour when the change means less environment, less conditions for businesses and worse for consumers. I can't believe it. This tax is bad for the environment because it leads to increased use of fossil disposable bags and other packaging. The sale of paper bags, which require more energy, has more than doubled. These bags are usually used only once, and cleaning workers testify to the enormous amount of paper bags that must now be taken care of. The tax does not contribute to the reduction of litter; I cannot say it enough times. Because we didn't have a problem with plastic bags in nature. When this tax was introduced in 2020, plastic bags made up 1.4% of the debris found in nature, and only 0.8% of it was the bags that are now taxed. The freezer bag that you have the grill sausage in or the sausage bread bag that happens to fly away when you are out grilling in the forest is not subject to tax. If the purpose were to reduce litter in real terms, then this kind of bag would probably also have been taxed. Nor do the Swedes go to India and throw their plastic carrier bags in the sea – on the contrary, we are very good at taking care of and recycling our waste. Even in terms of resource consumption, the government fails: more energy is spent on the alternative bag. The use of fossil plastics is increasing, and we are now recycling less. What about the EU argument on reduced plastic bag use used by the Government, Madam President – does it hold? No, it doesn't. The Packaging Directive sets a target to reduce the consumption of plastic carrier bags to 90 bags per person per year by 2019. We achieved this already in 2018, without tax. We were also well on the way to reaching the goal of 40 bags per person per year to 2025 – without tax. Seldom had already started charging for carrier bags, and the recycled environmental bags we bought our food were reused to 95 percent. So this was a good system that worked but which the government went in and destroyed. Then you can also discuss what the EU means by a plastic carrier bag. Do you mean the thin, useless and fossil bags that you get free of charge when buying food at the local grocery store when you are on holiday in southern Europe – or do you refer to Swedish recycled environmental carrier bags that are recycled? But when the EU says, Jump! The Swedish Government is asking how high? .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Instead, one should think about one lap extra and actually do what is good for the environment, which is good for Swedish companies and which is good for consumers for real. Does the Government believe that the tax has somehow been successful?
i-Ta1gQcf4rycHVjtWBUMKD8	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. Yes, this issue is engaging, like all tax matters-- that's it. However, I would like to hang this up a little bit on the European directive. It was not really necessary to introduce a tax, but it would have been sufficient to ensure that plastic carrier bags were not provided free of charge by 31 December 2018. This emerges from a number of organisations that are familiar with this issue. As early as 2016, Sweden implemented the plastic bag directive, when stores started to inform consumers about benefits in terms of environmental impact with reduced consumption of plastic carrier bags. That already had a good effect. In addition, most stores charged for carrier bags, which meant that we complied with the directive. We in Sweden have also been unique in developing our plastic carrier bags with generally very low environmental impact, which I mentioned earlier. To come back to what can happen to companies and industries, I must read out what a business representative says: It is clear that it feels very harsh when politicians run a policy that disadvantages companies at the forefront of the world.
i-CRENQaptP7FtvjhfnTDC1G	Madam President, I would like I'm sure there's a lot of people up there in the gallery who wonder why we're getting so involved in the plastic bag tax. The Minister of Finance is not really up and running, but I can tell you why we put so much energy into the plastic bag tax: No, it may not be the biggest problem we have to deal with, but it is lightning-lighting why we have problems with both growth and high unemployment – and why the government's climate policy is more about placard politics than about a green transition. Regardless of what the Minister for Finance and the Government says, I can say that it is our Swedish business community and its innovation power that wears the lead shirt in terms of the green transition. It has long been realised what is required and made major investments to make a real climate change change. Trioworld, mentioned before, is such a company. Their plastic carrier bags consist of 80 percent recycled raw material. If you look at circularity and think about it from an environmental point of view, the plastic bag tax meant pulling the carpet away from one of the companies that did the best — and allowing 30 people to leave their job. Madam President, I would like Another company is Gaia Biomaterials. They have developed bags that are degradable and can be used up to 50 times – but should still be taxed. I can also tell Hanna Bergstedt that a fabric bag should be used 1,000 times before it has paid off. And do you know why Gaia Biomaterial's bags should be taxed? Well, as was said here before, they are taxed because they look like plastic bags. In addition, the EU has spent tens of millions of dollars in the development of this material, Biodolmer, which has also been part of the EU's Life Environment Programme. First, you get EU funds to develop an environmentally friendly product and succeed, to now be taxed in Sweden. I'll give you what Åke Rosén, founder of Gaia Biomaterials, has said: It's clean out of the woods and basically takes our entire development of environmentally friendly plastic bags. Since the 1970s, I have worked to develop materials that are as good as plastics, but more environmentally friendly. And now that I've managed to do something really good, you put your legs away for me. This only shows how politics works towards Swedish research in the field of climate change. Had the company been exempt from the tax, the production in Helsingborg would have been increased and another 20 to 30 people employed. Now, instead, there will be a move abroad. I can also note that the EU is also critical of the Swedish plastic bag tax law and calls on the government to sketch out a response to what a plastic bag is. Does the Minister of Finance not agree that it seems strange when the EU provides funds to develop an environmentally friendly product and it is then taxed in Sweden because it looks like a plastic bag?
i-HRstBtEEMirfpyrnXRNjcg	Madam President, I would like Of course, a fabric bag also affects the environment. But it is always better to use what you already have than to buy something new. It is a simple model for how we affect our environment and our environment. If you have something at home to carry home your food in that you already own and have used, it is better than buying something new, whether it is plastic, paper or fabric. Although not everyone in this House has experienced re-use and re-use, I tend to think that our previous generations should be trend gurus right now. The increase in rapid consumption is something that has happened in two generations. That the purpose of changing our behavior would be so reprehensible, I find it a little hard to understand. It is clear that using and using what you already have is a good ideal rather than buying and consuming new ones, if not necessary. It's hard for me to see it just when it's about bringing home food. As the Minister says, this is not my favorite question when it comes to what we can do in terms of climate impact. There are much more important issues, and I think we will come back to them in the House later. Let us not forget that this was the Liberals' favorite in the January agreement. If – God forbid – it becomes a bourgeois government after the next election, the constellation that sits here and has taken the interpellation debate will be able to resolve the issue together with its comrades, I think. But it is perhaps as empty as the 5 crowns at the pump. You had a chance in December, but these are empty words. You stand here agitating, but when you really have the chance, you don't do anything. You could have removed the treasure if you wanted to.
i-PPxoqjyWAPkmBWNqFYgHV6	Madam President, I would like This debate is really about a couple of different things at the same time. One is about how we comply with an EU directive that says we should reduce the number of carrier bags to 40 thin plastic bags per person per year. It affects those who make plastic bags regardless of taxes or not. Now it was such a directive. The second is a more forward-looking perspective, which I find interesting. What are the products of the future? What do they look like? What opportunities are there to avoid littering in nature? Are there degradable plastic bags in the future that actually do not contribute to microplastics? Can they be bio-based and thus completely return to a cycle? This development is extremely important for Sweden, for Europe and for the world. There are two perspectives in the same. I said earlier that this isn't the question I'm getting started on. It was nice that it was highlighted that it was not our party that proposed the tax but that we honour an agreement that we have signed – and we have implemented the one that decided. I remember when you got the recommendation not to take a plastic bag when shopping. I didn't always do it. Now I think about it; I try to remember the carrier bag that is often in the car, but I don't always remember it. They try to adapt a little harder when there are economic drivers, and the Moderates say in other contexts that economic drivers also produce results in behavioral changes. This is not the world's most important issue for me, but it has led to a decrease in the number of carrier plastic bags. Looking ahead, I think there is development potential in what types of plastics we talk about, how they are designed and how different types of plastics can reduce litter in nature. I hope and believe that Sweden can continue to be leading and driving on these issues. With this, I have nothing more to say in this speech.
i-VzHkMcXEMQPp6FDnxbSLqG	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. A new report from the Environment and Public Health Institute states that the plastic bag tax is counterproductive and should never have been introduced. In addition to the fact that the plastic bag tax completely wiped out a Swedish eco-friendly plastic carrier bag, forced companies to terminate staff and moved production abroad, heavier paper bags with a higher environmental impact have replaced the plastic carrier bags. In addition, the use of plastic waste bags, often imported and made of fossil plastic, has increased dramatically. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, I would like to say that the tax on plastic carrier bags imposed by the Social Democrats together with the Green Party, the Centre Party and the Liberals is the biggest tax flop I know of. Not in a single area has the tax served its purpose. It is bad for the environment, for Swedish entrepreneurship and for Swedish consumers, and it did not cover the holes in the government's budget. The fact that the government chose to introduce such an unnecessary reform, the basis of which was also inadequate, is distressing. The disadvantages of the tax were obvious and indisputable even then, and the fears have now been confirmed. With clear facts on the table, the only reasonable thing to do is redo and do the right thing. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Finance the following. Now that the Social Democrats have got rid of the Liberals, can we not agree? Can the Government promise that we will act together to remove the counterproductive plastic bag tax as soon as possible?
i-YHoShFnKyiV79NYcaHpNvR	Madam President, I would like As a comment to Hannah Bergstedt, I am prepared to resolve the issue and remove the tax in every possible way, definitely in a future government. No matter who's in the government, we're gonna fight to take away crazy treasures. Two years have now passed since the introduction of the tax on plastic carrier bags. I hope that the Minister will agree that it is important that the tax system is designed so that a large proportion of our citizens think that the tax is sensible and that there is a sense and a balance in the tax. If we are to gain acceptance for a tax, the majority of people who are to pay the tax must nevertheless have some kind of understanding of why the tax is levied. In the case of the plastic bag tax, it has been written running metres of argumentation about why it does not make sense and why it does not live up to its purpose. We have heard many examples here. I have one final question for the Minister, but the Minister has answered the question between the lines. Nevertheless, I ask my question: does the Minister think that plastic bag tax is a good tax that has a clear acceptance among us taxpayers?
i-GS8XXMnLpvvpvAQRLh36vv	Madam President, I would like The report to which my colleagues have so creditably referred is named Two years with a failed reform. Sales of Swedish plastic carrier bags, which are leading in terms of the share of recycled raw materials, decreased drastically. These bags have largely been replaced by thin waste bags which are more imported and by fossil raw materials. Tax revenue of 2.1 billion was 200 million. Greater environmental impact, negligible tax revenues and the fact that innovative companies have had to lay off staff and move production abroad is in no way a good idea. Is that right, Minister of Finance? The fact that the tax discourages companies that produce innovative and sustainable plastic bags is clear. It is bad for sustainability work, bad for the Swedish economy and growth, bad for jobs and bad for Swedish competitiveness, and it adds a wet blanket of environmentally friendly entrepreneurship. That wasn't meant to be when you introduced the plastic bag tax, was it? Or what? Is it not high time for the government and the Finance Minister to encourage the innovation power of Swedish entrepreneurs rather than disadvantage it so that companies stay in our country and continue with environmentally friendly entrepreneurship where both jobs, the environment and growth thrive? Now that you are without a January agreement, there is every possibility of removing this tax. At least we don't have to have a tax on bags just because they look like plastic bags. It's horrible.
i-YSdxKPrdsujrv85eFeK9LN	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the debate on the Liberal plastic bag tax. This is not the question that makes me sleepless at night. I'll be honest and say it. It's not a big tax revenue. That is not the question on which I am most courted, and it is not the tax that makes the most money for the financing of welfare. However, I think it is unwise that you go so hard on it and condemn the whole change in behaviour, because something has happened to the behaviour. There is nothing to compare with far back in time, but when you ask today how many people bring a bag to the store when they shop, a lot of people say they carry a bag. I have noticed my own behaviour that I think about when I shop, and I think that many people now have to change behaviour to deal with the big issue of the climate but also the small issue of littering in nature. Regular and normal oil-based plastics are still a major problem for nature globally. Sweden and Europe should be forerunners in bringing this litter down and changing. I am absolutely sure that when this issue is discussed in a few years' time, there are new solutions, more innovations and future opportunities that will allow us to be even better at reducing litter in nature too. But, as I said, Sweden has to comply with EU directives. The number of plastic bags in which we used to carry a lot of goods would be reduced, and this has actually happened after the tax was introduced.
i-4EkbfTmEZfqrK8rjMFX4TX	Madam President, I would like Niklas Wykman has asked me whether I intend to continue raising or introducing even more taxes if the Social Democrats are given renewed confidence this autumn. Jasmin Farid has asked me whether I will continue to introduce taxes with climate and environment as arguments that actually make everyday life difficult for people and bring limited benefits in relation to other measures. Kjell Jansson has asked me if I intend to continue raising or introducing even more taxes that make it even more expensive to be dependent on the car if the Social Democrats regain confidence this autumn. As a result of the deteriorating security policy situation, the Swedish people have recently been affected by increased prices of, among other things, fuels and energy. No government can credibly promise to compensate for these price increases in full, but in order to mitigate the impact of the increase in prices, the government has presented a package of measures that includes compensation for the high prices of fuel and electricity. On 1 May, the energy tax on petrol and diesel was also reduced by SEK 1.80 at a pump, down to the EU minimum level of diesel. The prices of agricultural inputs have also increased. For this reason, the Government has proposed a support package for agriculture with support for livestock production and a temporary reduction in the tax on diesel in agriculture, forestry and aquaculture. In order to make it particularly easier for people with long commuting distances, the government will also propose to strengthen the tax relief in the new travel allowance. A memorandum has just been sent out for consultation with proposals for a higher tax reduction per kilometre and a higher upper distance limit. The proposal strengthens the tax relief by SEK 4.3 billion. Our policy is based on understanding that climate change is costly to society while a faster climate transition creates jobs and export opportunities. In order to accelerate the transition and create the conditions for new solutions, an active policy is needed. At the same time, climate change helps to reduce dependence on imports of fossil fuels. Our policy therefore makes Sweden safer.
i-WbZAcjHiYqYe57iDeV8HjV	Madam President, I would like Politics are serious things. We know this not least in the light of the very serious developments in our surrounding world, which also has great significance for us in Sweden. Nevertheless, some simplifications or generalisations sometimes need to be made to clarify how a government is doing, how a country is doing or what is the difference between the policy options. If there had been some kind of European championship in running his country, Mikael Damberg would have come to the top of the list when it comes to introducing or raising various taxes. That is what this interpellation is about, Madam President. One can of course imagine the tax system in many different ways. You might want a little higher taxes. You might want a little lower taxes. You may want a rational tax system, and you may want an irrational tax system. An economist can think that the best thing is if you have reasonably low taxes and a very rational tax system. What is meant by a rational tax system? Well, it's kind of like knowing what the rules are. It doesn't hurt the economy very much. People don't adapt their behavior in any strange way. You don't have to hire a lot of lawyers to do business. You don't end up in a long fight. It does not provide any skewed incentives. It gives no competitive advantage based on whether you have money or borrow money, but it treats people fairly well. Basically, it is about the tax system that was introduced in Sweden at some point in the early 1990s. It is one of my party's great and actually historical mistakes that we did not contribute to that change. The social democrats and other parties that introduced that tax system should have great credit for doing so, because the Swedish economy had really been driven at the bottom of too high taxes and too much hassle for a long time. Taxes had led to a petrification of Swedish industry, which had lost competitiveness. It was right to make that change then. Since then this reform has not been treated very well, and now Mikael Damberg has completely abandoned it and introduced a wide range of new taxes. It is about increased fuel taxes and the introduction of air tax. The new mortgage tax has come as an unpleasant surprise to many borrowers now that you see what its effects are. We have the new vehicle taxes and the plastic bag tax we just talked about. We have the electronics tax which now makes it more expensive to buy electronics and mobile phones in Sweden. We have the electricity tax. Now the travel allowance is also abolished somewhat drastically on the part of the government, which creates great confusion and serious consequences for many people who work. The government twitches in very many threads in the economy at the same time, and the risk is that it creates great problems and great uncertainty. You don't know what's going on from year to year. You don't know which economic decisions are good to make-- maybe it's best not to make any at all. One feels threatened by a wide range of new taxes to be introduced into the economy. Here Mikael Damberg and Sweden had unfortunately ended up very high in a competition in the European Union. Madam President, I would like This can then, in the next stage, be linked to where Sweden has come to be in other comparisons in the European Union – perhaps the most new and increased taxes of various kinds that create trouble and confusion. We are also seeing developments in which Swedish unemployment persists while it falls in the EU. Sweden has one of the EU's highest unemployment rates, and when it falls in the EU, it stands still in Sweden. We have had the worst economic development – or among the worst – in total since 2014. Before the Minister of Finance imposes even more and even more recent taxes, it would be interesting to hear whether the Minister of Finance might in any way believe that these very bad results in terms of jobs and growth are linked to a very damaging tax policy.
i-MQM9j1QYYgrbLLaAHfd5mj	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The fact remains: Sweden has very high taxes, and one can strongly question the environmental benefits of the measures taken by the government with its policies. The Government responds that the Swedish people, as a result of the deteriorating security policy situation, have recently suffered from increased prices of, among other things, fuel and energy. I respect that. We have been affected by a pandemic, and we are affected today by the deteriorating security situation. But Sweden has also been affected by eight years of Social Democratic political rule. Let us sum up what has happened and what is the result of the policy that has been pursued by the government. The Social Democrats have introduced 46 new taxes and tax increases over the last eight years. At the same time, allowances are introduced for people to be able to afford to pay the increased taxes. In a country with the fourth highest tax burden in the world, more taxes are not the answer. When the climate issue is one of the main challenges of our time, we cannot pursue policies that hit hard on jobs and growth and make it difficult for people in their everyday lives. Emissions are falling too slowly. Reports from the Climate Policy Council fail the government's climate policy. Large sums are spent on research that does not work, on climate anxiety therapy and on electric bicycles. This testifies to a major waste of resources in climate policy from the government. In total, the Government spends nine out of ten SEK on measures that are not effective in reducing CO2 emissions. Madam President, I would like Instead of withdrawing expenditure increases, the government chooses to further screw up the tax level and stop Sweden's growth. We have witnessed years of tax increases, and this indicates that more tax increases may come. I ask again: will the Minister continue to introduce taxes on the basis of climate and the environment, which actually make everyday life difficult for people?
i-2dsk3j2jK8QmB4jXGUrNEk	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Finance, for your answer. Every misused tax crown is a theft from the people, said Social Democratic engineer Gustav Möller. Sweden has the third highest tax burden in the world. Nevertheless, the government has raised 46 taxes in the last eight years. That's remarkable. It has also created 50 new agencies; in total we now have 465 or 468 agencies in Sweden. The reason for doing so is to strengthen the role of the state and displace the freedom of the individual; it is based on this. That is exactly what distinguishes us bourgeois from the Social Democrats and the Left. Nicolin Nicolin always said that whoever goes to work in the morning should be free from the state and not live on benefits – that person should keep his salary, so that it never has to be dependent on benefits. I think that was incredibly healthy of Nicolin Nicolin. I share his view at 180%. But the government wants control of people. You never want to remove any government activity that doesn't work but just increase taxes. All solutions to problems are budget supplements and increased taxes. The vehicle taxes have run hugely over the years. In 2014, Magdalena Andersson said that she absolutely did not intend to raise any fuel taxes. What happened? The tax has gone up a lot, and the diesel price is now over SEK 25. The price went down in connection with the drop of 1.80, but yesterday it was up over 25 bucks again. This does not only hit households hard and those who live in Norrland and go far. It also hits parts on the outer edge of Stockholm County where people have a long way to Stockholm. I myself have 100 kilometres to Stockholm, and many have even longer. This strikes hard on our agriculture, which already has poor profitability. It also hits companies in, for example, the haulage industry, which is hard hit by high fuel prices. They often have long contracts with suppliers. Prices go up, and there aren't always indices to list it up– sometimes there are and sometimes there aren't. What does the Minister of Finance intend to do about this? Has the Minister of Finance submitted an application to withdraw from the EU tax directive? Has the government done that? There's a lot of money at stake. There is now a shortage of energy and gas. I can see how you can talk about Putin. Adblue, which many diesel cars must have, is not available. In two weeks, the haulage industry may be standing still if this can't be achieved. This need is acute. What does the Minister of Finance intend to do about this? We need to get the car running. The car is an engine in a community, even in a capital city. Sweden has a subway in the inner city of Stockholm, but the rest of Sweden is dependent on the car. The whole Mälardal region and the whole of Sweden are dependent on the car.
i-2mJ8CmNdCG5aaRPVDXrY8j	Madam President, I would like This debate on taxes is certainly not something that always involves everyone, but for those of us who sit on the tax committee, it is a dear subject. As far as the increase and reduction of taxes are concerned, we are often stuck in percentages and in the number of taxes, but in reality, at least from a social democratic perspective, it is about what we are going to do with the money. It is about funding and distribution, but of course also, in the end, about what can lead to jobs, innovation and development. When you talk about not taking in taxes, it's also about what you don't want to do. A related example is the issue of pensions for those with the lowest incomes. We are talking about people like my mother, who have worked in commerce during the time when preschool was not expanded and there was no maximum rate and who have worked in industries where you have not actually been offered full time at all. We're talking about people who have worked in the cash register or in service jobs or who have been nurses. These are the ones that the government now wants to give 1,000 kroner a month. Everyone is well aware of the cost increases we are now facing, including on fuel – it has also been mentioned in this House. Of course, SEK 1 000 more in the wallet is to be financed in some way. I have noticed that there has been a proposal from the bourgeois side, but it is naturally worse in terms of distribution policy. It gives more to those who already have more and less to those who have the least — to people like my own mother. It is also a question of not wanting, as the government has done, to increase the compensation for those who are long-term ill. These are people who can actually no longer influence their income, no matter how much they would have liked it. It's not about people who don't want to work. My mother has certainly done every hour she has been able to get throughout her working life. I have a friend who's a sick pensioner, who it's no longer called. She's got a tumor in her brain. She is 30 years old and wants nothing more than to work, but before the rise of the government she had to choose between getting help to shower and getting her probe food. That's the level we're talking about. This is what nothing is about if we do not want to increase funding. It is also, of course, a question of distribution. I think it is reasonable that we have a society where we can afford these things for those who have the worst pensions and for those who will not be able to influence income during their working lives. Of course, it is important to be able to invest in things that are important. We've been talking about climate and environment. Much of what the government has shown in this area I think we owe to the trade unions. If we do not develop in the face of the challenges of the future, jobs will be threatened. The union movement is well aware of this. The future is not a threat– it's not doing anything that's the threat. We have gone from having a government that said that the base industry is What do we do that is climate smart enough to get the whole world to turn here and make big investments that lead to jobs, nowadays not only in Norrbotten but actually in large parts of Sweden? Of course, the tax on income is what finances our common welfare. I would also like to comment on the issue of fuels. I live in a county with large distances where there will never be a subway. We are the ones who are most dependent on the transition taking place and that there are opportunities for other alternatives. Fossil fuels are not reasonable either from a democratic point of view or from a climate point of view. And the compensation for households needs to come now, not perhaps.
i-Dj3TqY4xe3tWya55KNZ7KS	Madam President, I would like When it comes to the cuts made by the government in support of Sweden's disabled people, Hannah Bergstedt may well talk to her government. The RBU report shows 19 reductions in disability support. Madam President, I would like In 2014, Mikael Damberg's representative Magdalena Andersson got a direct question in the media: Will you increase the petrol tax? That's a pretty simple question. She replied: No, we see no reason to raise it. Perhaps it was one of those who went and voted in 2014 who believed in Magdalena Andersson. It is quite unusual for leading politicians to lie that way. In 2014, a litre of petrol cost 14, 33. Dieseln cost 14.95. There are those who say the increase is due to Putin. But the 2014 crude oil price was SEK 90. Today it is just under 110. If this increase were to be calculated, the diesel would cost about $7 per litre today. But as Kjell Jansson said, diesel costs around SEK 25 per litre. What are the consequences, Madam President? For my in-laws in Boden– I am also from Norrbotten; I was born and raised there – it means that they simply can't afford to drive the car enough and wherever they want. They get to prioritize when they're going and where they're going. This is the case when you have worked in the public sector all your life and have a relatively low pension. This is thus devastating for Sweden's pensioners. It also affects work commuting. I happen to know several people with normal income who commute within Gävleborg and now say: Actually it doesn't pay to work, but I do anyway. Then there is competitiveness, Madam President. The competitiveness of Swedish industry depends on jobs and entrepreneurship. We in Sweden are not going to punish our own business through political decisions by the Social Democrats with cooperation parties that raise the costs for the Swedish business community? The price of Sandvik's products is set every second on the world market. When Mikael Damberg and his partners raise the costs of electricity, fuel and other things through their 46 tax increases, this means that we will have reduced competitiveness. In 2014, petrol cost 14, 33. Dieseln cost 14.95. Today, it costs about 25 kroner per litre. If the accident were to occur, Madam President, and we were to have a continued socialist government in Sweden, what will the fuel cost in four years' time? I think the voters deserve to ask that question. I note that the Minister of Finance did not comment with a comma on the concrete questions put by Kjell Jansson in his interpellation. It is reasonable for the Minister of Finance to give a clear answer. How much more are you going to milk out of motorism in Sweden, and what are the consequences? It feels like the car is the dairy cow of the Social Democrats number one. There is a common thread in the policy of the Social Democrats. 46 tax increases on jobs and entrepreneurship go to pay subsidies for those who do not work. As everyone knows, this policy is directly harmful to Sweden, Swedish households and Swedish competitiveness. But I would like to know from Mikael Damberg: How much will petrol cost after the election?
i-8X9ApX7S7ZQjT8GbpvkvSN	Madam President, I would like There are several perspectives in this debate. I'll try to go through most of them. Perhaps the main objective of tax policy is, after all, to finance common welfare, common social functions and public expenditure. Tax policy must be linked to an economic policy that drives Sweden forward. I believe that there is quite a broad line-up in Parliament's Chamber right now. Not least, the pandemic has revealed that some of our social institutions were not strong enough. In elderly care and health care, the staff have had to pull a very heavy load. The expansion of criminal policy is now making a major impact on the budget. We are increasing our efforts in police, prison, prosecutors and the judiciary. These investments are necessary to secure Sweden. The major expansion of the defence has already begun. Only within the current period of defence decision-making would we increase expenditure by 85%. Now, in broad political agreement in this House, we have said that we should reach 2% of GDP as soon as possible. These are major commitments that need to be financed. Some of the tax increases we made, not least at the beginning of our reign, were due to the fact that we had to pick up a budget deficit and get the public finances back in order to be able to afford to finance our expenditure and cope with the quality improvements that are absolutely necessary to implement. The second perspective is price increases. The unimaginable price increases in electricity, diesel and petrol have hit a great many people and businesses. The government has presented a long plan of action to meet these increases. First, we went ahead with reduced diesel tax at the EU minimum level for five months from 5 May. The first initiatives by the Moderates in the Finance Committee concerned three months, but perhaps it was a good thing that we finally agreed on five. We said that this might not be enough and that we must have fuel compensation. We said that every person who owns a car can get SEK 1 000 – SEK 1 500 in rural areas and assisted areas, where you have even more need of the car. The Riksdag then chose to say: "We will examine whether you can go under the minimum tax directive." The answer to the question whether we have submitted an application is: Yes, we have. We are still waiting for approval from the Commission and from the 27 Member States, who have to vote in favour of Sweden being allowed to go under the minimum tax directive. To be constructive, let me put it this way: now we have reduced to the minimum level. If it turns out that it is taking a lot of time to get information and approval from the European Union, are the parties prepared to agree to the fuel compensation, which we own entirely ourselves, which we can decide on in this House and which will come out immediately after the summer to those who have suffered high costs? These are important questions. Prices are increasing for many groups. That is why we have made progress in compensating the poorest families with children and, not least, the most vulnerable pensioners, who were also highlighted by Hannah Bergstedt. This is a very important issue which I very much hope will be dealt with as quickly as possible. If you are not going to improve for pensioners now in this tough situation, with increased prices of coffee, tomatoes, fuel and electricity, I am thinking about when to really do that. We therefore show that we are prepared to go forward with efforts to achieve the possible tax reductions and compensations. People should not have to bear the full cost of Putin war against Ukraine, which is now driving up prices enormously. I would have liked to have said something about environmental policy, but since I have only three seconds left in my speaking time, I will have to take it in my next speech.
i-SqpUS7LihsSv5Dxn3nKECu	Madam President, I would like One tip to the Minister for Finance is not to lump together so many interpellations into a debate so that he does not have time to answer the questions asked. My view is that it is not good to do so, but it is my personal reflection. Mikael Damberg did not have time to answer one of the central questions in this interpellation debate, namely what all the new taxes that were introduced and all the taxes that Mikael Damberg and his government friends have said are going to introduce have implications for the Swedish economy. Other interpelliers have also been concerned with this, i.e. what all new taxes and threats of new taxes that we are not yet fully aware of have implications for Swedish household finances, for the competitiveness of Swedish companies and for the innovation power of Swedish research. When you suddenly get your business boosted, your innovation taxed away or live in great uncertainty about whether it is worth investing in something or not because Mikael Damberg can at any time introduce a new tax that lowers the whole idea, the country becomes less competitive and less creative, and there are fewer innovations. In what way does Mikael Damberg link his destructive and harmful tax policy to the weak economic performance in Sweden? The unemployment rate in Sweden remains as it falls in the EU. It is 7.7% in Sweden and 6.3% in the EU. When we saw a downward trend in many parts of Europe in March, we saw that Swedish unemployment remained stable. If the composition of unemployment is analysed more carefully, it is also problematic in that it is increasingly made up of people who have been unemployed for a long time. Here we should stop and think about what the policies that have been implemented mean for these outcomes. It is not only Swedish unemployment that is very high in an international comparison. We have also had one of the worst overall economic developments since 2014. It was Professor Hassler who noted that Swedish growth envy meant the weakest growth throughout the European Union – i.e. the sharp growth that Mikael Damberg and his predecessors used to talk about. Fuel taxes, air taxes, mortgage taxes, discontinued travel deductions, electronic taxes and so on are not the only problem. A number of new taxes and tax increases are threatening: emergency tax, increased business tax, increased ISK tax, increased snus tax, a one-off article tax, which would hit all small diners and restaurants, special taxes on shoes and clothing, and possibly reintroduced wealth tax. In addition, the aim is to punish all mortgage holders even more by means of a reduced interest rate deduction. The square shall also be reduced. Yes, it is a long series of tax increases that have been announced in party chairman Magdalena Andersson's election manifesto. Mikael Damberg will introduce all these taxes and at the same time phase out the ramifications in public finances. It can be a very toxic cocktail for Swedish companies and Swedish competitiveness and for all Swedish households. In addition, a very large tax increase in the reeds of Swedish households is lurking if the government is allowed to continue. If you analyse the Social Democratic movement and look at its various parts and institutions, there is no doubt that after the elections it will become a property tax. It will cost many households anything between SEK 3 000 up to SEK 8 000 a month for when the government has introduced its property tax after the election. Does Mikael Damberg see any link between destructive fiscal policy and weak economic performance?
i-LCeJ4R3xnV2TMC63Zg6UWd	Madam President, I would like We see that the government's climate policy is hitting jobs and growth and making it difficult for people to put together the puzzle of life in their everyday lives. At the same time, the government has built up a cost situation that needs to be financed. This means that the government must withdraw the increase in expenditure. Instead, they choose to screw up tax levels, which stops Sweden's growth. It is difficult for me to understand the logic of the Social Democrats. Anyone who drives their children to and from leisure activities, drives their older mother to the doctor, takes the car to shop for the family, or drives their grandparents to the nursing home trying to make the community work. Should we put an end to this, society would cease to function and the quality of life would hardly improve. What happens if children cannot go to leisure activities or if they are unable to drive grandmother to the doctor? What kind of country does Sweden become? Like I said, I don't understand the logic. You should try to maximize the tax burden on everything you can think of so that people will not be able to afford to get their everyday lives together. I don't think it's wrong to live your life and try to do the right thing. We see today that people cannot afford because of the tax burden. Households are under even more pressure, and going to work soon is not a good idea. The flashing prices of fuel are terrible. It does not just affect the everyday lives of city dwellers. It also hits the countryside hard and is unfair to those who do not live in a big city. In order to secure jobs, security and people's household economy, Sweden needs a new government. Growth and sustainability need not be mutually exclusive. Instead, the Moderates want to pursue a climate policy that combines emissions reduction with economic growth, including by converting the transport sector into clean electricity and sustainable biofuels and re-designing industry to help reduce emissions and drive global climate action. We don't need any more plastic bags. I understand that this is not an important issue for the Government, but it is still a symbolic issue when it comes to tax increases.
i-UMadUaC8sFvYYzJMbrHmAq	Madam President, I would like There was no response on fuel prices from the Minister of Finance. I understand that it may be difficult to respond precisely to oil prices, but as far as taxes are concerned, I expected an answer. The price of electricity was also at the forefront of the debate. The price of electricity is no surprise; it understands all normal people who know the market economy. To shut down two nuclear reactors in southern Sweden and in its naivety imagine that one should manage the energy supply with wind power, which is totally weather dependent and gives power if it blows but not too much, is horrible. Instead, you buy oil power from Karlshamnsverket, 140 000 litres per hour, and coal power from Poland and Germany, and then you talk about green conversion. It's nothing but brown conversion; it's a hoax. Removing that thousandth part that Sweden releases does not save the world's climate when India builds 300 new coal power plants and China 500. It's kind of like the fire department going to put out a barbecue instead of a big forest fire. As far as the price of electricity is concerned, taxes must be reduced. Today, government revenue from VAT is increasing enormously. With 6% inflation, the government receives substantially higher amounts of VAT than the budgeted 550 billion. There is space here, if the money is not to be used for other purposes. I shall also raise an issue relating to the financing of defence, which we agree in this House to strengthen up to 2%. Today we have an aid budget of 60 billion. I asked the Parliamentary Investigation Service for an account of where the money went and got it for 14 billion. Does the Minister of Finance know where the other 46 have gone? The fact that this EUR 46 billion cannot be reported to me as a Member of Parliament – as much as the entire judicial system costs annually – is remarkable. Does the Minister of Finance know where this money goes? I got a diffuse answer that Sida disposes of them, but that's no answer to where they go. Sida is an authority that administers assistance and relief activities. There is certainly a huge need, particularly in the Ukraine area, for humanitarian aid to be decommissioned, such as temporary housing, clothing, medicines, etc., and for armored shots.
i-MdCwUQtzaW8JWNYZH1MvFK	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by reminding Lars Beckman that I have been in this Parliament for so long that I have been in the time of the alliance government as well. And when it comes to property tax, as it is said that it will come back, I would just like to remind you that Anders Borg, who was then Minister of Finance, has said in retrospect that it might not be wise to remove that tax. For example, when you sit in a collaboration, you sometimes have to give up. This experience also has those who belong to the alliance parties. With regard to the proposal to reduce the energy tax to SEK 5 per pump, I would like to say that the Commission has proposed changes to this four times and has had it voted down. We should therefore have 27 Member States with us. I know that in this debate there have also been people who have been on the ministry side, and I know therefore that this knowledge exists. The probability of this going through is small, although we have now submitted an application. But then one can easily get the impression that the purpose of this is rather to keep a conflict over the elections than actually to solve the problems that households are facing now with the costs that they have. There are, of course, proposals that can be implemented now and that have an effect on households, unlike what is unlikely to go through, at least if we are to start from what it has looked like in the past. I can't help but think about one thing. Do you really not think that the climate effects will affect us at all? Floods and droughts are already affecting our companies in Sweden. If we continue to turn a blind eye to what is actually happening, this will ultimately have even worse consequences. They cause great human suffering, and they also have effects on the Swedish economy.
i-PK2GZznBGwNvpGgzaR82vs	Madam President, I would like It is good that Hannah Bergstedt is clear when the Minister of Finance is not. The property tax will be reintroduced with the Social Democrats. In any other way, her speech cannot be interpreted. But it is a clear message to Sweden's homeowners and holiday home owners. Madam President, I would like What does the Damberg supplement mean for a person who tanks a car? That means about $700. The difference in price between 2014 and this year is approximately SEK 700 per tank. If you think once a week, that means about $35,000 a year. That's the Damberg supplement. It would now be welcome if the Minister of Finance would tell us how much more the Damberg supplement will be increased. 36 000 SEK is a lot for a pensioner couple living in Boden. They may go to the grave in Råneå, they may visit their daughter in Unbyn and they may go to the eye clinic in Piteå. Then it becomes fast so that you think once a week. For this pensioner couple in Boden, the Damberg supplement means a difference of 36 700 SEK if you compare 2014 with 2022. Then it is reasonable to answer Kjell Jansson's question: How much more does the Minister of Finance, together with the partners, intend to raise the tax on fuel? I think the voters remember the 2014 announcement from the then Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. She then said right into the camera: We have no reason to increase the tax on fuel. We can now see that there is a difference between SEK 700 per tank today and 2014. How much higher will the Damberg supplement be?
i-D126nJJeKbzY8omi9eCLPH	Madam President, I would like No, there will be no property tax. We have said that a hundred times in this speaker's seat. In addition, it was a reference to what a former moderate rich politician had said about how to abolish property tax. But that's another question. When we talk about the issue of fuel, I am the Finance Minister who has reduced the tax by 1.80 at the pump on 1 May. I also propose fuel compensation of SEK 1 000 per car and SEK 1 500 in assisted areas. I have submitted an application to the EU if it is possible to go below the minimum level of EU taxation. Let's see what it lands in. Because we have an exceptional situation right now because a war has pushed world market prices up to levels that we have never seen before. But this does not mean that the climate issue can be waved away. It does not matter if we account for one thousandth of emissions globally, and it is said that we should not be doing that. It is a dangerous policy that makes us more dependent on oil and gas, which does not switch to renewable fuels and locks the Swedish people into an addiction that can be very costly not only economically but also in terms of security policy. We are now implementing a tax reduction on the travel allowance, which we have proposed, and which costs SEK 4.3 billion. We increase the compensation per mile from SEK 18.50 to SEK 25 mil. This is the biggest increase that has been made in decades in Sweden. We are also doing so with a sparsely populated effect that the Rural Committee has proposed. All parties agreed to have a distance-based system instead. I am the one who makes this proposal because people need the car in Sweden to be able to commute to and from work. Our instruments have also played a role. We have seen reductions in emissions from the transport sector. It would not have been possible without instruments. It is no coincidence that Sweden has the largest new car sales of electric cars throughout the EU. It goes much faster than forecasts because we have been able to cope with economic instruments, something that the Moderates have opposed. This is the way forward, to also have the energy to change so that we reduce our dependence on oil and gas and ensure that we increase the number of electric cars but also that we have an even greater production of biofuels in Sweden that allows us to use not least our Swedish forest to a greater extent to also produce fuel. This is the way forward, both to reduce costs in the long term for Swedish consumers and wage earners and to reduce our dependence on Russian oil and gas. Together with the Swedish Democrats to dismantle Swedish environmental policy, I think it will be very costly for Swedish consumers as well. This is a policy that must be linked. Looking at the economic recovery after the pandemic, Sweden is one of the countries that has recovered rapidly. We did not get such a big dip, we see a continued increase in employment, we see a decrease in unemployment and we now have the highest employment rate in Sweden in 30 years. That is not such a bad rating for economic policy.
i-5ZVLGDnzKcMfSusSGagHvK	Madam President, I would like Minister for Finance Mikael Damberg commends himself for economic policy. The pensioners who are now faced with flash prices in the shops, all families who depend on the car and all the companies that are now seeing their exports and thus competitively weakened by all the increases in prices are not as convinced as the Minister for Finance about the excellence of the Minister for Finance in terms of economic policy. Even more objective evaluation bases than human perceptions point to the failure of Mikael Damberg. As unemployment in Europe declines, Swedish unemployment remains at high levels, and more and more of the unemployed have been unemployed for a long time. Mikael Damberg's employment and labour market policies are not working. Sweden is among the countries in the EU that have had the worst economic development in the EU since 2014. Jobs are not doing well, and growth is not doing well. That's because Mikael Damberg has a bad policy. There will be no property tax, says Mikael Damberg. Sweden should never join NATO, at least not as long as I am Minister of Defence, said our – precisely – Minister of Defence. Today, the same minister announced that Swedish NATO membership is good for Nordic security. If you advocate temporary residence permits, you are no longer human, Morgan Johansson said. He then introduced temporary residence permits and said that it was to take responsibility for Sweden. We will not increase taxes on petrol and diesel," said Magdalena Andersson. After all, everyone knows what happened. Today, Mikael Damberg has said: we should not reintroduce property tax. It must almost be seen as a promise that it will come immediately after the elections.
i-VXQGnJLWRN77KoZAWyX1vL	Madam President, I would like The government governs the country with symbolic politics. Examples of this, which we have debated here, are the plastic bag tax that has a very limited environmental benefit. At the planning stage it is talked about that there will be taxes on roofaway like coffee cups and lunch boxes and taxes on clothes and shoes. Switching completely to paper-based food containers impairs the sustainability of the food, which would also increase food waste and thus also climate impact. Climate tax on clothing and shoes means that Swedish companies and jobs are lost while the environmental impact is very diffuse. Although the government's investigation has found that 84 percent of all clothes and shoes sold in Sweden do not contain the chemicals to be taxed, all clothing and shoe dealers will be affected. In a situation where Swedish companies struggle to get up after the Corona crisis, the government plans to distribute a new tax burden. It is anti-business policies that will slow down companies and Swedish growth. We need to stop these planned tax increases with which the Government needs to be honest. It should pay to work and get to work. We should not be punished for having leisure activities, wanting to visit Grandma or go shopping. The Moderates lower taxes on labour so that more people can work and pay taxes. We simplify VAT rules, lower taxes on fuels, secure growth and make the right efforts to make it profitable to be climate efficient. It is clear that Sweden needs new policies that govern the country and that do not strangle growth and climate change with additional taxes.
i-V3Xy3eXpgDdxBvsnU3MfH3	Madam President, I would like There is no need for Parliament to change the fleet of vehicles. It takes care of the market. Anyone who does not build an environmentally friendly car today must not sell a car. That's how it works. That's how conscious people are. People understand this very well without us having to impose penalties on those who ride petrol and diesel cars. Many have to, because there is still no way of charging because those who have made the cars have not taken responsibility for building charging stations. However, those who manufacture diesel and petrol cars have known that there are petrol stations where you can refuel. But that interaction does not exist in the case of electric cars. Then you yell at politics that politics has to build charging stations. That is putting the whole market economy out of hand, I think. You have to take responsibility for the whole chain in what you make, and that is not being done today. I think that the car industry should receive a clear signal from both the government and the parliament about it. As far as the environmental issue is concerned, there is a guarantee of a good environment, namely the strengthening of property rights. That is the basis for a good environment. If you own your land, you care for your home and what you own, and you have it nice and clean and neat. That's how it works. The Minister of Finance also clearly states that no property tax will be reintroduced. We take that as a promise. Let's see if that's the case. What about the fortune tax? Will the Minister of Finance introduce it instead? It is in principle equally harmful, for it also affects the owners of a villa and a right-of-occupancy property and anyone who owns something, including those who own capital. Finally, I have received no answer as to where the 46 billions of aid go. I don't know who to ask, if I'm going to ask God about it or if I'm going to continue with Parliament's investigation service.
i-5ZmHYpqE799Bqm8XeswLer	Madam President, I would like To debate taxes with moderates is quite predictable. As you have no ambitions for welfare funding, there are always additional taxes to be reduced. Maybe it works in a different situation where we hadn't gone through a pandemic. But now health care is under great pressure, and health workers feel that they do not have the necessary working conditions. We have a school today that is very unequal. We need to take back democratic control and make further efforts to increase equivalence and ensure that all schools are of high quality. We have elderly care, where we get more and more elderly people who will need care. It's a social mission. We have the whole expansion of the defence and also the expansion of the police, which will need to continue in order to increase security in our country. All of this is paid for with taxes. No one else is paying these expenses. Therefore, if the Moderates really want to go to elections on long lists of all taxes that you want to lower, it will be very interesting to see what to remove. I suspect that the first ones to start paying the Moderate tax cuts are Sweden's pensioners. You have now presented a proposal which in principle gives half as much this year as the proposal that we have put on the table of Parliament. We have added a proposal of SEK 1 000 more after tax to all those who have a very low pension. The proposal now on the table is about half as much and further away, uncertain when. It is clear that pensioners listening to these debates wonder what happens to their economy when prices rise after Russia's war. Our message is that we can improve for pensioners, and we can do so soon. However, it is a question of voting in favour of this proposal.
i-98YM4NoS7FbpXGbuQnRaTF	Madam President, I would like Jasmin Farid has asked me several questions about the financing of the new Skuru Bridge. The new Skuru bridge is financed partly by State resources and partly by loans repaid through bridge charges. The speech was signed under the Moderate-led Government by the Moderate-led municipality of Nacka and the Finnish Transport Administration. It provides for a bridge charge to cover two thirds of the costs, while the remainder is to be financed from State resources. It is for the parties to take responsibility for the contract they have concluded.
i-RLHTapAgZiz6SFj73cPggS	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I stand here as Värmdöbo and want to lift Värmdö's voice on this issue because Värmdö has never had the opportunity to speak or be involved in the process around the Skuru Bridge. Road 222 is the only land connection into Stockholm from Värmdö municipality and the eastern part of Nacka municipality. The fact that the construction of two thirds is proposed to be financed by infrastructure charges per crossing is completely contrary to the principle of equality since there is no other possible route to Värmdö municipality. On 31 March 2022, the Finnish Transport Administration submitted a notification to the Government about the fee and its distribution. This means that Trafikverket gives the government the opportunity to take measures to ensure that residents in Nacka and Värmdö are not affected by this unfair criminal taxation. I am still asking for a response on what measures the Government is planning to take, but the answer we have received here is nothing at all. If I interpret it correctly, that means that the state will not take any action. The answer I get to the question whether the Government intends to give the Skuru Bridge full state funding, I take as no. It shall be paid only to one third by the State. The answer I get to the question whether the Government intends to charge a fee to finance the administration of the Finnish Transport Administration is yes. It'll cover the costs, I'll interpret it as. I want to avoid having a debate in which the issue is brought back and forth, but the fact remains: the municipalities do not own state roads, nor do they have finances for it. This way and the bridge is a government commitment. Thus, the issue is owned by the state, and it also falls on the table of the Government. It is also interesting that the Prime Minister recently was out knocking in the part of Nacka affected by this penalty tax, as shown in an article in the newspaper Mitt i Värmdö. I will not comment that the Prime Minister there with a laugh points out that she lives on the right side of the bridge, but Magdalena Andersson also complains about the fees. Yet the Prime Minister and the Government refuse to take control of the matter even though they are in power. I wonder why. Madam President, I would like It was an exemplary short reply from the Government that it is up to the parties to take responsibility for the agreement reached. But Värmdö Municipality has not signed an agreement on the Skuru Bridge, which said the only land connection to the municipality. Nor has Värmdö Municipality been given the opportunity to comment on the matter. What responsibility does the Minister think Värmdö municipality should take? How can the Government try to hold the residents of Värmdö to account when they have never been involved in the question or been given an opinion? The agreement was signed in 2009. That's 13 years ago. I was not even involved in politics at the time, nor did the Government sign the agreement. But the government has been responsible for the agreement for the last 8 years and has delayed the process. What responsibility has the State taken to uphold the contract to bring forward the construction, to which the whole agreement was aimed? It is clear that this 13-year agreement no longer applies. It was based on bringing the whole project forward. 13 years of waiting means that the state and the Finnish Transport Administration have violated the agreement. Referring to such an old agreement does not hold up as an argument. This is not about party politics. Nor is it a question of whether it is the problem of the Moderates or of the Social Democrats. This is about the problems of the Värmdö residents and the people of Nacka. I appeal to the Government and to the Social Democrats to release party politics. Let's figure this out! The government has a chance to become a hero in this matter.
i-tT3jAHdjaRrA8mq4abPJg	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer we have received from the Government. I would like to join in because I represent Nacka and would like to say a few words. An agreement between the Municipality of Nacka and the Government on fee financing has been concluded once upon a time. More specifically, the Municipality Executive Board of Nacka made such a decision in 2009 with the argument that it could thus bring the construction forward. In the coming years, little happened when it came to planning actually building the bridge. Today, thank God, the construction has started. That's good. However, what is still greatly aggravating are the charges that threaten to be imposed on the day the bridge is to be used. Madam President, I would like For all residents throughout Värmdö and the far part of Ormingelandet in Nacka, the compulsory fees are soon a fact. Such a cost overrun would be unique in the country. I will now read before: For us, this issue is not just about the practical financing of a bridge within the region. It is also about important principles for how to manage infrastructure investments in our country and how to allocate costs between different levels of society as well as between these and users. We cannot accept that public funding responsibility for the essential infrastructure in individual places should be passed on to the most affected individuals and entrepreneurs. We believe that it is a fundamental principle that state roads should be financed from state resources. If tens of thousands of residents of Värmdö and parts of Nacka are to be forced to pay a fee every day to leave their municipality with the only possible land connection, this is not just something that has gone wrong in the individual case. Then it also means a shift of systems that provides for completely different principles in the planning and financing of state infrastructure. We are firmly opposed to this. Those who have written this are the Minister's own Social Democratic friends. Signatories include another minister named Khashayar Farmanbar.
i-6TzdUNfuTMnkVW9uVZUomP	Madam President, I would like Thank you to both co-debaters for their interesting comments! When it comes to state roads being paid for by state resources, Khashayar Farmanbar and we Social Democrats think that this is an important fundamental principle, but the Moderates do not. If the Member of the House Herrey to say that it is now the Moderates' line, it is interesting. Then Maria Stockhaus and other Members will have some concerns when those who now go country and country around and promise infrastructure investments on borrowed funds with co-financing or co-financing. So what is the moderate line? I would like an answer to that. Then it is not true that Värmdö municipality has not been given an opinion. This is something that began in 2009. In fact, I amused myself before this debate by listening through a debate that Christina Axelsson, a member of the S-Parliament from the region, had with Åsa Torstensson about this. We Social Democrats were against this financing solution. We thought it was a bad model. We thought it would be better to include it in the county plan and to build this type of infrastructure with common funds. But moderate-controlled Nacka together with moderate-controlled Stockholm region, with Carl Cederschiöld at the head, pushed through this and thought that that was how it should be. You actually have to take responsibility for the political positions you make. It is still the case, if the latest information does not show otherwise, that the Moderates believe that we can very well co-finance and co-finance infrastructure investments. Then it is quite reasonable to imagine that we get more Skurubroar, more Nacka and Värmdö situations. I think that the starting point, although I can be pragmatic in some individual cases, is that the state should fund this. I was also opposed to this bet. But now an agreement is written, and the parties will well keep that agreement. To come back and try to say that this should not apply to us once the bill is paid, I do not think is really sustainable. Now the actors, the municipality and the work, are allowed to comply with the commitments they have actually made. I note that it still looks like the bridge is about to be completed in the near future, and that is also why the issue of charges is being raised. I think that, just as Mrs Herrey was on the subject, this raises the question of principles for the construction of infrastructure in Sweden. I think there is a point in reducing municipal co-financing. That was my ambition in the last plan, and I did so. It remains to be seen what happens when we present the new national plan, but I think that the state has the basic task of building infrastructure. After all, the Moderates have tried this type of co-financing solution in other contexts. I don't need to mention Arlandabanan or a large, famous hospital in the Stockholm region, which turned out to be very expensive when you found other alternative funding opportunities. I guess now it's just to be responsible for what you've come up with at once. I think it is important for the state to keep its agreement, and that is probably the mission in this case. I also note that it is good that the bridge is now being built and is about to be completed. That's important, too. Then, as many other projects sometimes do, this project will be affected by delays and costs, and then the actors involved will also have to take responsibility for it – just as with the subway initiatives that Region Stockholm is now doing and which are considerably more expensive. I think this is about up to 9 billion. The consequence is an increased loan and extension of congestion taxes in the Stockholm region.
i-5rnwgPLZGFzW99z9sRbWQK	Madam President, I would like Where during these 13 years is the Government's responsibility? After all, there are eight years in which this project, this decision, this agreement has been on the table of the Government. In the proposal for a national infrastructure plan 2022 – 2033, Region Stockholm County Plan has not been financed to accommodate government funding for the new Skuru Bridge. As a result, the new Skuru bridge should receive full state funding as a named project in the national infrastructure plan. It is unreasonable to demand that the region re-prioritise its county plan because it already has too little money today. Only two government projects have been put in the grave when it comes to the Finnish Transport Administration's plans for Värmdö municipality. Why? The SEK 10.8 billion provided by the state in the county plan is a minimal budget for Sweden's growth region. Clearly, that is not enough. There is no question that the Social Democrats are good at borrowing money, but the priority is unfair. This is about making the right and correct errors arising from state priorities and the allocation of resources. What I do not understand either is that the Social Democrats are constantly beating their chests when it comes to the fact that there is more money on the table. If there is a lot of money, you should also be able to secure the Skuru Bridge, secure the residents of Värmdö and secure the people of Nacka. What is this really about? Well, it's about Grandpa being able to visit his grandchildren, too, helping his children drive their grandchildren to leisure activities. This is about the single parent who has to go to and from work in the city but who is not really able to do so because it is now being punished with congestion tax on the only road to and from Värmdö, i.e. Skuru Bridge. It is also about the archipelago in the Stockholm region and about our islanders. It's about not having to pay a penalty to go into town on a doctor's visit, leave the children at school or visit Grandpa on the other side of the bridge. It is a matter of not being taxed for living on Värmdö or in the eastern part of Nacka and doing the right thing and paying your income tax to the state. I would also like to add in this debate that this is not entirely correct either because the people of Värmdö have not even been able to make their voices heard in the process. The Government has had the opportunity to correct this. But it is regrettable that the Government has instead ignored invitations and meetings from Värmdö Municipality. From a legal point of view, it is interesting how incorrect it is that Värmdö has not been allowed to act as a referral body and therefore has not been given an opinion on this issue, which mainly concerns them. There is only one way into and out of Värmdö municipality. What does the Government think the Värmdö residents should do? Will the Government continue to ignore the Municipality of Värmdö who requests meetings with him?
i-RPiYgJRViyyZMxaZphbiSi	Madam President, I would like I am not going to go into all kinds of solutions that can be practical and necessary in terms of infrastructure around the country, but I am going to stick to the subject which is basically about a necessary road – a road, the only way – for Värmdö. It is a state road, and this is about those at local level who have actually seen the problem trying to persuade the state to fulfil its task and assume its responsibility to maintain and maintain the possibility of this state road, which is the only link with the mainland and, for example, hospitals and work. It is therefore local representatives who have seen the problem and wanted to find a solution. Thus, the option for 75 000 people would be no way at all. You would have to use a boat or swim from Värmdö. I think we can all see the absurdity of suddenly closing road 222. Madam President, I would like Who bears the financial responsibility for this path? Yes, it is the state, represented here by the current Minister of Infrastructure. No matter what intentions and what agreements were signed long ago and whether one can argue that the state has not lived up to the agreement because part of the agreement was that the construction should be brought forward, and the bridge is now six years late compared to the intention of the agreement, it is about the principle. The state is responsible for building and paying for this absolutely necessary and only road for 75 000 people. That's why the government has to pay. The Social Democrats now have the opportunity to do the right thing and get this right. Or they have the opportunity to take advantage of the situation and make it a party political issue in which all residents, regardless of their party affiliation, have to pay for the government's political game.
i-L412BZSzbZobkTGGvaDDCt	Madam President, I would like I note that Mrs Herrey did not answer my questions, and that means that it is now unclear whether the Moderates think that you should co-finance, co-finance or find other funding for infrastructure or whether you now suddenly think that everything should be purely state-funded. It is exciting if the Moderates now turn to this issue. Or, as I suspect, the honourable Herrey will turn the argument around on this particular occasion, when it is appropriate. In reality, the Moderates have a different line, we know that. We Social Democrats opposed this. The Skuru Bridge could have been financed through the joint county plan. You could have got along the way you do in all the other parts of the country. But in Stockholm, the Moderates chose to say: "We can find another solution, can't we?" We borrow a little on payment, and then we find a model where those who will then drive on the bridge if a longer time is involved in paying. Once the construction is done and it's time to pay, you don't want to take responsibility. I think most people in the rest of the country think it is reasonable to take responsibility for the investments they make. The Stockholm region is now allowed to do so for the cost of the subway with SEK 9 billion. The Government does this for the costs that occur at Bypass Stockholm and at other major infrastructure sites. That's how you do it. But here the Moderates at both municipal, regional, negotiation and government level chose another financing solution. Then I guess you'll have to stand for it, too. I think this is interesting, because it also raises the question of the principle of the responsibility of the government for the projects being launched. People are now complaining about Arlandabanan's high fees for tickets out to Arlanda, and it was Mats Odell who signed that agreement during the moderated government. It is now thought that Karolinska became unreasonably expensive, and it was Irene Svenonius and the Moderates in the Stockholm region who thought that they had a smart financial solution there. Similarly, it is now that alternative ways of financing are found: you have to take responsibility and pay the fees that are required in that case. This is the case in Sundsvall where there is a bridge and Sundsvall residents pay their fees. I think this is more about the Moderates who are beginning to get a little worried about the election movement and seize the opportunities that exist to try to find conflicts. But then it is important that those of us who have been in politics for a little longer can say that it was you who pushed this through against the will of the Social Democrats at one time because you wanted to find another financing solution, and now that the bill is to be paid, you find it uncomfortable. For my part, this is an important question of principle when it comes to how we finance infrastructure in the future. I have said in many contexts that I want the state to provide the bulk of all infrastructure investment. My aim has been to reduce co-financing, not least from municipalities and regions, because that money is to be spent on care for the elderly or the school. Then you sometimes have to find common solutions when you agree, and then you have to be broad in agreement. We have also done so in some contexts, but the starting point is that the state should take that responsibility or that within the framework of the money that the state pays to the county plan it does so. If there had been agreement throughout the Stockholm region, politicians throughout the Stockholm region would also have chosen to prioritise the Skuru Bridge and thus financed it with the common funds available, just as they do in all other parts of the country.
i-4YASefwfZRaRsoeiZLgCyM	Madam President, I would like If the Government believes that this can be resolved and is against these charges, he can resolve it. Power lies with the Government. There's talk about this deal. That's 13 years old. Of the 13 years, who has been responsible for the last 8? It is the Government, or at least the Social Democratic Government. As regards the Sundsvall Bridge, a government decision was taken. The Government has received a notification in order to be able to make a decision now. Maybe we shouldn't try to avoid it. Today's tax system is based on state infrastructure, and it is to be financed by the State through the income tax that the country's population actually contributes. That is an essential part of the tax system we have. Sweden's infrastructure has enormous maintenance needs, which are constantly growing. A charge per crossing on the only land link of thousands of inhabitants therefore risks becoming an indicative example of what the Government mentioned. Municipalities do not have the economy to take responsibility for state infrastructure. Then where are they gonna take the money from? It is in the power of the Government, through the responsibility of the Finnish Transport Agency, not to impose additional taxation with charges on the Skuru Bridge. In fact, I appeal to the Government. The original agreement cannot be valid. The whole purpose of that was to bring it forward. Is the message that the people of Nacka and Värmdö will be on their own? Today, citizens are already burdened by taxes such as road tax, fuel tax, income tax and congestion tax. The list is long, and we have debated it here today. How many more taxes will the Värmdö residents and the people of Nacka have to pay? I ask myself: What are the Värmdö residents and the people of Nacka going to get back from their government tax when they try to do the right thing? What does the government deliver?
i-RgYeroQp4Wkvr1cF5BKeNA	Madam President, I would like I thought I heard the question, "What do we get for the money?" I recognize it from a well-known business representative. We get great medical care and care for the elderly. We get a state that takes responsibility for infrastructure investments throughout the country. This was something that could have been financed by common funds if more common funds had been allocated. But back then, when the Moderates ruled the country, what was it? – 500 billion SEK on infrastructure investments. We are now up to 900 billion. It was considerably smaller then. Then the money wasn't enough. As an event now, when we talk about the infrastructure bill and what investments we are going to make in the future on new infrastructure, new bridges or new roads, the Moderates in their budget option happen to say that it will be SEK 30 billion less to new infrastructure. That's why it gets a little strange, although I have all respect for local representatives who feel for their road object or their initiative whether it's Nacka, Värmdö, Jämtland or Norrbotten. It becomes a little strange when the party as such– I assume Members vote on its party's draft budget– proposes less money for new infrastructure. So there is a moderate proposal here which you have voted for and which is now to be completed, and you have not even allocated money to resolve the situation. You have less money for infrastructure right now, too. With all due respect for the commitment, you do not actually have any solutions. We take responsibility. We spend more money than ever. We ensure that the state also takes the big responsibility and invests in infrastructure throughout the country. Thank you for a good debate!
i-A9rphcgMF9BexJdjjRwrBy	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me whether I and the government intend to take any steps to tighten up legislation on the manipulation of tachographs. We're going to have some order on the roads. This has been one of the most important elements for the government in the field of transport. The Swedish Transport Agency's proposal aims to clarify the system of controls and sanctions for the manipulation of tachographs. Today there is legislation that can be applied to the counterfeiting of tachograph diagram sheets and the manipulation of tachographs. Cheating with driving and rest times is associated with significant risks from both health and safety aspects and also leads to distortions of competition. The Government therefore decided on new fines in spring 2021, for example when the driver spends his normal weekly rest in the vehicle. The government has gradually made cheating more difficult and expensive for rogue carriers. I will continue to work to ensure the order of the roads and to combat crime.
i-4JeHUsTdDAxceSmEcr8B1e	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. There are a few things in the answer that I would like to dwell on, first of all. The government said: We shall have order on the roads. This has been one of the most important elements for the government in the field of transport. I am the first to agree that there should be order on the roads, including to ensure that competition between haulage companies is healthy, but also to ensure that we have safe traffic and that drivers have a social life where they can socialise with family and friends. These are the three important pillars of this legislation: fair competition, road safety and the social situation of the driver. It is on the three legs that the legislation on driving and rest times rests. When manipulating the tachograph, you override all three parts. Of course, this affects the chance for healthy hauliers to survive. This puts all the rest of us on the road at risk. Everyone realizes what can happen if a driver is driving far beyond what is permitted. The worst thing I've had to take, when I was in the traffic police, had been driving for 55 hours without an approved rest. Now there is no human being who can sit and drive for 55 hours in a row. The driver had stopped for a few hours at a time and had rested and then continued driving. As long as there is no approved rest, the driving time is counted together, and we got 55 hours. During the interview, the driver fell asleep. It stopped inside the hut, where we had the interview. What would have happened if he had been allowed to continue driving for another hour or two? Then he could have run someone over. Even though the government has the ambition that there should be order and order on the roads, it does not understand the meaning of this. One does not understand the importance of curbing the type of activity in which the system is put out of action. That's what you do when you go in and manipulate the tachograph. As I usually say, it has never been as easy to cheat as it is now. That is the case for a number of reasons. The digital tachograph offers this possibility. I was there when it was to be introduced in 2006. The introduction was postponed on a couple of occasions because the function could not be guaranteed. It was too easy to go in and manipulate. In addition, the functioning of the tachograph itself was uncertain. It is just as easy to do this today. I also understand from the reply that the smart tachograph is important. But it's just as easy to manipulate. If you have only the knowledge, you take out the system. That is why it is so important that we have a functioning roadside inspection. Then there is part of the answer that I do not understand, but perhaps the Government can explain it to me. The Government said: The Government therefore decided in spring 2021 on new fines, for example when the driver spends his normal weekly rest in the vehicle. What does that have to do with manipulated tachographs? You can take your weekly rest in the vehicle, regardless of whether the tachograph is tampered with or not. That answer is irrelevant to the subject we are discussing.
i-GDv43GZfXDZ3qRTWcmagEo	Madam President, I would like I thank Thomas Morell, and I think we are in complete agreement on the need for well-functioning control activities and the importance of order and order in our ways. I have systematically worked on this issue since I took office as Minister for Infrastructure. It is a reform work that we have not seen the husband of, with clapping, with fines, with client responsibility, with winter tyre requirements, with a negotiated mobility package where posting declaration will apply from day one and not least with expanded police controls. I think there was a 470% increase in police controls of some kinds. But we are also looking at a future organization to get improved control activities. As far as tachographs are concerned, I share the view that this is difficult. We are trying to be one step ahead with both legislation and new technologies. But even in the case of GPS-based smart tachographs, there may be a risk of finding ways of reprogramming and manipulating. That is the case with all crime. But I believe that, not least, the new digital technology will actually provide better opportunities to control the progress of goods. In addition, it is important that those who buy transport use Fair Transport and certified good Swedish haulage companies, who comply with the rules and who do not ignore having collective agreements or having the latest model on vehicles that meet climate requirements. The responsibility is, of course, shared. However, there is one problem, and I would like to take this opportunity to raise it when I have the opportunity to debate with the Swedish Democrats and Thomas Morell. Thomas Morell very often has many views, Madam President, on what should be done to make things better. The problem is that all these proposals have been implemented under a Social Democratic-led government. During the time when I have been Minister of Infrastructure, we have received fines, ordering responsibility and complaints, and we have got through a mobility package. But as an old moderate politician Thomas Morell wants it to be a moderate government and Ulf Kristersson to become Prime Minister. I don't know what time I'm gonna ask you this. But I would still like to take this opportunity to do so again this time. Will the Swedish Democrats ever make demands on the Moderates to implement some of the wish lists that you otherwise see the Social Democrats implement in government? Otherwise, it is obvious that a vote on the Swedish Democrats means that we get a moderate-led government that, just like the last time they had government power, ignores both tachographs and driving and rest rules. They think the point is that it should be transport at the lowest possible cost. We're not supposed to have union organisations that are in the process. I think someone moderated called it in some context. In fact, we have come a long way in these years when we have had another government that has created order and hope for the future in Swedish haulage industry. I hope and believe that we will see a stronger Swedish haulage industry as more and more young people are now seeking transport programmes, thanks to Svenska Truckers and some other programmes. I therefore feel the hope for the future, but also concern when the Swedish Democrats obviously still think that it is entirely reasonable for us to have a moderate-led government that is not prepared to do anything. As far as the substance is concerned, there are rules which are currently applicable to the manipulation of tachographs. I have no trouble working for them to be tightened up too. A starting point for this regulatory framework is when we get new smart tachographs in place. The legislation and rules at both Swedish and European level then need to be adapted to the new technical conditions that exist. We will create order on the Swedish roads.
i-BDiYhguFEoFkHfq7x4YTN2	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. The Government's memory hardly extends between two interpellation debates. I have said it several times before, and I say it again: I will pursue these questions as long as I stand up. We need a transport industry that works. And when it comes to Prime Minister, I work to get Jimmie Åkesson as Prime Minister. Then the problem is solved, right? Let's get back to the point. We have concerns about tachographs being manipulated on our roads. This disables the system. When drivers sit and drive far too long, people are in danger. This beats away the bones of the serious haulage industry. The government's own authority has put forward a proposal on how to deal with this by tightening up the legislation, but the government says no. You have to take care of your forehead. I understand that the situation is not kept under review when responding to an interpellation on manipulated tachographs by introducing legislation which means that drivers must not take their weekly rest in the cabin. It has nothing to do with the subject matter. You sleep just as well in the cabin of a truck, regardless of whether the tachograph is manipulated or not. That's not where the problem lies. The problem is that the system is out of operation. The smart tachograph that the Government has far too much faith in is probably one of the dumbest devices that has ever been screwed into a vehicle. It's so gullible, it's almost ridiculous. If you interrupt the signal to it, you get exactly the result that you want. For 30,000 kroner I get equipment in the car that allows me to remotely control the tachograph. I get the rest I need, and I get the break I need, even though I'm driving the car. The only way to get to this is to take those who manipulate the tachograph with their fingers in the jam jar. Then you have to get control services out on the road. It is not worth coming a day after, because in the vast majority of cases the evidence has disappeared. You have to take the vehicles along the way so that you can prove that the driver has committed a crime. You can then seize the vehicle and the equipment. Such a proposal has been made by the Swedish Transport Agency, but the government says no. To be honest, I don't understand this. However, while we are discussing drivers who are driving too long, I would like to point out that customs takes on average two drug-affected drivers a week in the ports of southern Sweden, which has been alerted several times. The drivers have even put the drugs on the driver's table in the cab so that they can cope with driving all the way up to Norrland, unload the car, load up and get down again. This is reality. The government is powerless when it comes to getting to this. Instead, there are a lot of strange arguments about who is going to be prime minister. I guess that's completely uninteresting. The government is in power today. Try to get some workshop!
i-4GVWujAJ9jVhg5GC7iRv3i	Madam President, I would like Try to get some workshop, it is said after we have had the most extensive time of regulation of Swedish professional traffic in Swedish history. It is a matter of squeezing, which did not exist before. First it was 24 hours and then 36 hours. These are fines, which have been increased in several stages and have been extended in this respect. Now we have Europe's highest fines. This applies to customer responsibility, which is now further strengthened as a result of the mobility package. These are earmarked resources for the control of cabotage traffic, generally increased resources for the Swedish Transport Agency's control of cabotage traffic and an investigation into professional traffic inspection. We have also received a mobility package in place, driven through in Europe after years of tough debates. Now it is implemented, despite the fact that the party comrades of the Swedish Democrats in Poland and Hungary – in Law and Justice and whatever their name is – have done everything they could to try to stop this. They have even gone to the European Court of Justice. They have done this without the Swedish Democrats at our national level having raised a single critical voice against these attempts. Nevertheless, we have succeeded at European level and in Sweden in carrying out a comprehensive re-regulation of professional traffic. This means that we are now seeing a hope for the future. I was recently on a transport program in Oskarshamn that had been overexploited. You wanted to be a truck driver. Extra fun was that half of them were girls. They had looked at Svenska Truckers and had met riders who said they were prepared to hire them. They saw that there was actually a nutrition in Sweden that could finally start breathing some breath of life. This is due to the fact that we are now beginning to level out the conditions of competition from the time when Thomas Morell himself was moderate. It pushed through the whole of lawlessness in Europe when wages and contracts were to be squeezed down. There would be free shipments across the EU. Now we're getting out of that order. We get some order in professional traffic, thanks to the fact that we have had a Social Democratic-led government since 2014. Then it is not uninteresting who is Prime Minister, as Thomas Morell seems to think. The fact that Thomas Morell is still prepared to fight for a blue-brown government, whether it is Kristersson or Åkesson who becomes Prime Minister. I'm sure the election results will tell. But so far I have not seen a single list of what to do together for professional traffic. Nevertheless, I have called for this in quite a number of debates and thought that the joint drafting of the debate should come to the fore so that the voters will learn that what Thomas Morell says in the speaker's chair, Madam President, is not just something he himself thinks, but something that the Swedish Democrats think or perhaps even something that one has the opportunity to run in the parliament in a change of government. I don't see any signals like that. The signal I get when I meet with haulage companies or the trade union movement is that the only guarantee that something will happen in this policy area is that we Social Democrats continue to take the lead on these issues, because this is the moment it has happened. It is now being seen that we are taking action whether it is a matter of fines or of complaints. Surely Thomas Morell's mistrust of new technology is well documented here in the chamber debate. Nevertheless, I believe that with new smart tachographs, new digital solutions and, not least, with GPS marking, we can find better ways of controlling professional traffic, but also with more checks on the road, be so sure. That is why we have earmarked resources so that police forces increase controls. This is in some cases an increase of 470 percent. That's a good bit. I would like to see more checks. It is necessary for us to get our hands on professional traffic.
i-T41gWEx5VqYRCgzMKhKGKF	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. It's a little interesting. The Government says that the number of road inspections has increased by 400 percent. But how many are there in number? It's enough to hire two more people and you can double that number. Come on! There's a far too small crowd out on the road doing the controls. This enables those who manipulate and violate the rules to do so on a commercial basis. Nobody's stopping it. Too few people do the controls. Madam President, I would like Now I apologize for the language. I quote a newspaper article. One of my old colleagues was asked: Not a damn thing, says a car inspector we're talking to. It comes directly from those who have the job to try to curb the cheating along the way. They don't feel the support of the government. It is a bit funny that the Government says that the haulage industry would prefer to have a social democratic government in the future. I'm not getting that picture. I have a fairly large network of contacts in the haulage industry. I also know that there are many people watching the debates. Perhaps the Government should have a slightly different image in future debates to increase the credibility of the reasoning. Anyone who is in touch with reality out there and knows how the transport industry works knows the conditions under which serious entrepreneurs are struggling. It's like how much opportunities those who put in systems to cheat have. The measures taken by the government have been rather ineffective. Just take the customer responsibility. It wasn't legal. What helps winter tyre requirements when no one can prosecute those who are out on the road and drive with bad tires? This is how we could continue if I had only had speaking time left.
i-3MTqNZxbmWwzTb28mDcfry	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Morell! I note that the tone of Sweden's democrats is getting tougher and grumpier as the opinion situation deteriorates and that we are still progressing with the changes and reinforcements in the field of professional transport. I had hoped and thought that it would have been good if we had had a broad political consensus in Sweden about promoting professional traffic, having an impact on fair transport and ensuring that more people go to the transport programme. It is a matter of ensuring that you get some optimism about the future as a racer when you are not competed out by foreign skiers who have dumped wages or poor social conditions. I can see that many people still see that there has been a dramatic change. I am also visiting and meeting both car inspectors and police officers who say that it is very good that we now have the new rules. On my last visit, the police actually showed me the latest posting declaration. That's what I'm holding up here. A posting declaration may be required on the spot from day one. There'll be tough fines if they don't. Posting declaration, for those following this debate, means that one has the opportunity to also ask from the trade union movement: Hello, what agreements are there? What wages are here? It is about the fact that we should no longer have a situation like the one we have had where Polish, Hungarian and Lithuanian drivers have gone on poor wages and on poor working conditions on our Swedish roads. They have been able to drive weekly, live monthly, in their trucks and compete out of Swedish haulage industry. It's over now. This is where we change the conditions. It is now that we are systematically working in Sweden and in Europe to create a decent transport sector. That's what the guys and girls I met in Oskarshamn could feel. There is some hope for the future and believe that the time as a truck driver is no longer to live in a cabin on a parking lot with poor pay but that it is a pretty fun and exciting job to keep all of Sweden and the whole of Europe rolling.
i-HHL9CZKsgjFK82tJhCfywA	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me whether I intend to inform myself about the traffic situation on Ekerö in connection with the Stockholm bypass. There is currently a renovation of Ekerövägen which will lead to smaller queues and increased accessibility, especially for public transport. I assume that the Swedish Transport Administration is working on the basis of its mission to minimise the disruptions that occur during the construction period. Finally, once again, it is not the responsibility of the government or an individual minister to direct the agency's work in detail on individual projects.
i-4EB1YGdA8WBwh2Ax4sCefX	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. This is a huge project that will last for years. Now it looks like it will be postponed perhaps up to four years before the start of traffic. But it will mean a significant improvement for traffic in the Stockholm area and for the traffic to pass. It is quite clear that during a construction process, accessibility is affected during the work itself. It is inevitable that this is the case. But here it has been possible to mess things up so mildly that it is stopped in both directions. Then you get a little confused about how Trafikverket has acted and planned to get a traffic flow that works. I sat earlier today and discussed it. The poor people who are going to drive the bus in the area have a timetable to follow. It's a nightmare to spend hours in line. The traffic flow has been stopped to the mild degree on Ekerö that it is not possible to move forward or backwards. Then the next question comes. What happens when emergency services and ambulances have to make their way? People may need rapid help. This can be true both if a fire has occurred in a property or if you may have had a cardiac arrest or something like that. Then emergency services and ambulances won't arrive. There is a responsibility at Trafikverket to ensure that even during a construction process when you are going to rebuild and build still ensure that the traffic can flow. Here, the Government cannot say: No, I cannot rule in detail. I got that in answer to the question I asked. I also got that in response to the interpellation. In the answer, Tomas Eneroth says: "J ag assumes that the Swedish Transport Administration, based on its mission, works to minimise the disruptions that affect Ekerö due to Bypass Stockholm. Then the question is: Does the Government know what the situation is and how it is handled by the Authority? After all, people are put in direct danger if emergency services or ambulances do not arrive. Then society out there must also work for the people who commute in and out of Stockholm to their jobs. It is unreasonable to have hourly queues in the morning and afternoon if it is just a file open. That's not good enough. Here the Government must understand the question: How does the Authority carry out its mission? Are humans in danger? In that case, the Government must take action. It's not about going inside and grabbing an individual official in the ear. You can't do that. However, one can clearly say what the government wants and what demands it makes on the authority. That's a possibility for the government.
i-DJ7BDE5gMU1ragDiY1eRAH	Madam President and Thomas Morell! As far as the latter is concerned, the government does. This is done by the government in regulatory letters, in assignments and with all the tools that the Riksdag has given the government to govern works and authorities. That's how it works. Then, as a minister, you have the opportunity to visit various infrastructure objects, and I do so regularly. I was recently out on the road construction at the E4 and is soon going to the Varberg tunnel. It is, of course, impressive to see all the infrastructure efforts currently under way. We are investing nearly 900 billion over the next 12 years, more than ever, in infrastructure – on more roads, on more railways and on renovations. But I must also, as a minister, keep some arm's length distance. Projects can sometimes be appealed, and then they are appealed to the government and to the responsible minister. It happens to be me, and then it is not appropriate that I have been there in this context and expressed a little different opinions, wishes and thoughts about this particular object. That's how the order works. However, the Finnish Transport Agency has the task of ensuring accessibility for emergency services and ambulances and that accessibility should be good. Cooperation with municipalities, industry and regions. That mission has been very clear to the government. I think it works well in many parts, but there are certainly times when it does not work well. I have in some case said in a road construction: If you think there are a little too many road constructions this summer, so blame me! I mean in the sense that we are investing more than ever in building, rebuilding, restoring and renovating the Swedish road network. The alternative is not to do that. Now we are making a huge investment in infrastructure that has been long awaited for a long time in the Stockholm region. That will certainly be the case in it, as in all infrastructure investments: they sometimes lead to inconvenience. Many of us – we who travel a lot of trains – remember that during the last three summers we have had to get off the train a little earlier when approaching Stockholm. When the so-called Getingmidjan was renovated, Trafikverket had to go out with information and say: Now you will not be able to go all the way to Stockholm Central! When you got off the train, there were guides showing you which other means of transport you would choose to get there. This way of working – that you do a whole suspension in order to be able to make the big efforts faster – proved to be very successful and also appreciated. I think it must be the model for Trafikverket in every road construction that you find a system where you would rather turn off and then clearly guide road users and tell them where they should be. Of course, it is also a question of where rescue vehicles and others should be; it is the basic concept of all renovations that important social functions must be ensured. Again, it is up to the Finnish Transport Agency, together with the municipality concerned, companies and other organisations nearby, to have a good dialogue and find smart solutions. It is not for the government to inspect road construction, correct, move bars or tell us that you are not allowed to drive here. Then we get another type of control in Sweden, and it is not welcome. On the other hand, it is possible for a Member of Parliament to visit road construction, contact the Finnish Transport Administration and make comments – just like for all other citizens. That's how steering works in Sweden. This is also why we provide resources but also have a clarity in the assignments to Trafikverket so that we can get Bypass Stockholm in place. It will probably delight both the Ekerö people and many others.
i-GaPHBv61cLHQDcuZSSxAgF	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Disadvantages associated with road construction, railway construction or whatever it may be, I don't think anyone is questioning. It is a natural consequence of rebuilding and building. The problem arises when there is a stop – when you do not make it. It is precisely ground-borne traffic that has problems in obtaining rescue vehicles in the event of a serious incident. The example taken by the Government that the trains stopped on the south of Stockholm and that they then had to take a pendulum into Stockholm central was still a solution that worked for all road users. I went there several times myself. Sure, I had to go over to another platform and take another train, but I got there. But when traffic is stopped because you have not planned well enough, the situation will be completely different. The Government cannot then say that this is not his role without allowing a Member of Parliament to go out and look at it. I read from an essay from the Department of Law at Uppsala University. There, the government has been examined in connection with the Swedish Transport Agency's crisis – what happened when tasks were released. What is the responsibility of government ministers for government activities? Who is responsible for shortcomings in the state administration organisation? How far does responsibility go, and when may the Government have considered itself to have done enough? The paper is quite interesting, and the Government can get it from me after the debate. It says: The parliament manages the people's will by being its main representative. It makes laws, decides on regulations and taxes and has power over the state's finances. In general elections, liability may be claimed. The term of office of elected representatives may then be renewed or terminated. Of course, the question can be asked: What in heaven's name does it have to do with Bypass Stockholm? Well, in the end, it is the people who live in this area who are affected. And one can suffer in a very dramatic way if a rescue vehicle does not arrive. Here, an authority has not done enough to ensure that function – to obtain rescue vehicles or other important transports. Then Parliament will have to examine the government and the minister, and that is one of the reasons why we are standing here today. It is clear in the report from Uppsala University that the Government has an obligation to inform itself. The Government also has an obligation to take action if it turns out that the Authority has not done enough or perhaps even mishandled its mission. This is crystal clear in the conclusions at the end of the paper: When an authority has shortcomings, an obligation arises for the government, and in particular the Government, to lead the development of the state administration. There is no misinterpretation of the conclusion of the report. If Trafikverket has now planned so badly that people's lives and health are put at risk, it is the Government's duty to take action. I'd be happy to hand over the report so that the Government can read. But the answer I have received here is not good enough. The Government has a responsibility.
i-QR9hamCBsJLCnJFcsNHQ1k	Madam President, I would like I think that heavy constitutional arguments should be used at the right time – when there is a gross breach by the authorities, when they do not carry out their tasks, when information is withheld or the like. We have seen it through Sweden's political history sometimes. Madam President, I would like I say this for those who, in any case, heard Thomas Morell's argument, which was very powerful from a constitutional point of view, where the honourable Member comments that there will be a certain dissipation at a re-run field in the case of a renovation of a road at Ekerö. According to the reports I receive, it is perhaps 10 - 18 minutes longer travel time. The reason it's a little tricky in one place is that the Swedish Transport Administration, the state, does not own the land. It is private land, which unfortunately cannot be used. There is a squeeze between this and the World Heritage Site Drottningholm, which is also not the right conditions to use. But you do your best. A Swedish authority is doing its best to find, together with the surrounding actors, what has been long awaited by Ekerö residents for a very long time – to finally get a better road connection. Finally, they should be able to have a functioning infrastructure. Ekerö municipality has grown dramatically since the 1970s, not least in recent years. There is a massive population expansion. That is one of the reasons why we now want to add more resources and build more roads. And yes, the Swedish Transport Administration has the mission to ensure that ambulance vehicles, rescue vehicles and others are in place. They also have the task – and there the government is clear in its directives – to ensure that they interact with municipalities and with stakeholders involved. It can be anything from individual companies that need to bring their transports to public transport. I am convinced that you are working and doing your very best, but there are certainly both conflicts of interest and challenges. Then they'll have to solve it by finding the best possible co-planning. Sometimes you don't find that consensus. Sometimes there is an appeal, and you turn in and go to court. Then, in some cases, the matter will actually come up to the government, and then it is up to me to decide. That is one of the reasons why the Riksdag has decided on a system in which we as ministers should not go out and judge whether our authorities are doing exactly right in the individual object or the individual positions. I am clear – and the government is clear – on the task of the Finnish Transport Agency in terms of accessibility, not least in terms of emergency services and ambulance vehicles. I think it is important not to create a picture of the fact that there is now a total stop or that there are no conditions. This would significantly increase the concern for a lot of residents in Ekerö. It is clear that it is important that this information – if Thomas Morell now has concrete information that ambulances have been stopped or similar – is made known to the authority. I have not received any such information, but it is clear that the Swedish Transport Administration in such a situation has clear instructions from the government to act to ensure accessibility. That is what we are doing now in a situation where we are building more infrastructure than ever before. We are investing almost 900 billion over the next twelve years, and there will undoubtedly be some conflict of objectives in many contexts. Someone may not want a railway to be built because it wants a particular part of the land to be saved. Maybe someone else doesn't want the road drawn in that particular place. It is one of our responsibilities as politicians to point out the direction and tell us that a new link needs to be built to improve the traffic situation, in this case in the Stockholm area, but it is not for us to talk about in detail how everything should be done during the construction period itself. This responsibility has entrepreneurs, developers and the Finnish Transport Agency together with municipalities and regions, and I assume that they will also take that responsibility.
i-F8BaTJWrNAbiBSAC4gArF	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. No one questions that there will be problems when you make such a big investment as you are now doing at Bypass Stockholm. It is long-awaited and absolutely necessary. It will be difficult during the construction period, but it does not mean that there should be queues where it is blocked. In the run-up to this debate, I received information from people who were in line this morning that the sex was 1 hour and 20 minutes long. Then it is impossible to make a side transfer in the event of a rescue vehicle calling for a free road. It's serious. The day something happens and rescue vehicles do not make it is the planning poor. The functioning of these functions must be ensured. I realise that this with the World Heritage Site may be difficult to get past, but you have to look for other solutions to make traffic flow. It is not acceptable for it to stand still and block. The time for the people in the queue is valuable, just as it is for all of us. It is also important that public transport works so that those who live, live and work in the area can travel by bus and arrive with reasonable accuracy at the place they planned to come to at the intended time. But the most important thing must still be that the most important functions of society come into place in the event of something serious happening. Then it must not be blocked. Here, the Government must ensure that the Authority does all it can to minimise the risk.
i-2bVT151wDQBwamC8cG8PbR	Madam President, I would like As I said, from the government's side, we're doing exactly what we're supposed to do. We make demands on the authority – they will ensure accessibility and listen to stakeholders when road construction or other infrastructure investments are carried out. It is in Trafikverket's mission to do this. I myself have visited emergency services on several occasions – I have the interest – and am impressed by everyone who works in the emergency services and ambulance operations. I know that, like the taxi industry, you have a very good track of where the road is built, where you can get through and which is the fastest way. I assume, hope and believe that in this case we have a well-functioning dialogue with the Swedish Transport Administration and can deal with this. There are queues now, but that's why we're building. It is, once again, under the Social Democratic leadership that we are ensuring that it is built. At the time that Thomas Morell's former party The Moderates ruled the country, they did not invest enough in infrastructure. It chose to invest in other things or, above all, to reduce taxes. We make sure to build more infrastructure, so that you can get away from the queues on Ekerö and – in this case – get a pass. It can also be about getting new railways or other things that make Sweden stronger and richer and that give Sweden better opportunities to meet the climate requirement with smart transport. That's how the country should be ruled.
i-2kJwZvXGxUxVBBLmvJkR5j	Madam President, I would like Hanna Wagenius has asked me what I am doing in order for the farm to be recognised as a national interest and what I intend to do to protect the Swedish farmland. Sweden's valuable pasture environments and associated pastures are an important part of our cultural heritage that needs to be kept alive and passed on to future generations. Fäbodarna is also an important cultural environment, and farm farming contributes to the cultural landscape, food production, the preservation of biodiversity and traditional knowledge, and the preservation of farm animals. Fäbodbruket also contributes to attractive visitor environments. In the case of national interests, areas of general importance due to their natural values or cultural values shall be protected as national interests under Chapter 3. Section 6 of the Environmental Code. Fäbodar and fäbodvallar are included in the criteria for identifying a national interest in cultural conservation, and some of the country's pastures are also covered by such a national interest. Fäbodar and fäbodvallar can thus be a national interest but not the actual form of use. The National Heritage Board is responsible for identifying national interests for the cultural environment, while the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is responsible for identifying national interests for the natural environment. Based on this, the Government considers that there are currently no grounds for amending Chapter 3. Section 6 of the Environmental Code because national interests for cultural environmental protection already include pastures and pastures and are already applied. There are several financial support that can be used for farm environments and farmland. Through the Rural Development Programme decided by the Government, the Government has ensured that there are funds for both environmental compensations and various projects that have provided knowledge and training to maintain and develop knowledge of the farm and that help to ensure that this is taken into account in the future. There is also a government contribution to cultural environmental protection, 7:2 Contribution to cultural environmental protection, which is relevant to the farm culture. For the years 2022 – 2024, the Government strengthens this appropriation by an additional SEK 10 million per year. In Sweden's strategic plan for the next programming period, 2023 – 2027, in the EU's common agricultural policy, the government has continued to prioritise environmental payments for pastures in use, pastures and special care of pastures. The purpose of the environment is to preserve a living farm that enhances and maintains the nature and biodiversity of the landscape. A living farm also makes it possible to pass on the handicrafts and traditions of animal management and land management to future generations. All in all, there are today various types of support from the government and its authorities for pastures and pasture farms that together contribute to the work of protecting our valuable pasture environments and the Swedish pasture farm.
i-72YZ7met6Egdk3hzNupV4V	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Today we have 200 to 250 pastures left. Fifty years ago we had maybe a thousand. Of the 200 - 250 pastures we have left, only about fifty are in the milk sector. In its reply, the Government referred to the existence of responsible authorities. The National Heritage Board is responsible for the cultural environment, and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is responsible for national interests in the natural environment. This is the case, but there are many more authorities involved in the farm, such as the Swedish Board of Agriculture. The EU's agricultural policy also becomes part of the farmland. In my neighboring municipality of Rättvik we have Karl-Tövåsen-Tövåsen's farm, where Tin Gumun has been farming for 29 years. Now she can't take it anymore. She's handing it over. Tin is well known in mountain circles because she fought incredibly hard in her fight against government agencies. The Government may recall that the Swedish Tax Agency demanded that she have electrical cash registers up in the pasture. The official who handled the matter was in Gothenburg. He was asked if he had ever been to a pasture. Of course he didn't. The idea that one should electrify a pasture in order to have electric cash registers misses the whole purpose. Fäbodar and fäbodvallar can be a national interest, but not the activity itself and the form of use, says the Minister. But if the form of farming is not left, the pasture and the pasture wall will really be just a place where there are quite nice houses. The purpose disappears if there is not an active farm. There is financial support. But the people I met when I was at the annual meeting on the farm with the beautiful name Fågelsjö gammelgård beyond the river, also a fantastically beautiful place, did not feel that they had it so easy. It can be seen as part of the basis of this interpellation debate. Fäbodbruket is an incredibly small-scale business. You stand there and you hand core butter. Activities are not adapted to the EU's agricultural policy or the Agriculture Agency's system. The requirements for agricultural and food activities do not fit into the farm. I can take Karl-Tövåsen's foyer as an example again. In the summer it is bright almost 24 hours a day, but still there must be electrical lighting inside the boat, the small barn. Nor must it be too far between the boat and the place where dairy products are produced and so on. At the same time, it is usually culturally protected environments, so you must not rebuild either.
i-TKP5yEuhRbm9C1vvj38uWK	Madam President, I would like I have other experiences than the official Peter Helander told me about. At home where I grew up and where Grandma and Grandpa came from, it was Nelly who went up to... every summer. We had the farm next door. It was a small pasture. We didn't have any animals there. As soon as it thundered, Nelly came over and asked to borrow some soap. Then she sat there until the thunder was over. She never took the soap with her. She was the last in Medelpad to farm. Fäbodbruk means not only food but also culture. It also means grazing that allows us to maintain this environment and biodiversity. I share Peter Helander's view that this should not be too difficult. A pasture is a completely different place with completely different conditions, and pasture farming is pasture farming precisely because of that. What we are doing, for example, is that in the new common agricultural plan, which we have now drawn up, we are keeping support for the farm, because it is an important substitute. We also make, as I told you, investments in the cultural environment and other things. Not everything needs to be done into national interests. In the interpellation, the question is asked what I intend to do in order for the farm to be recognised as a national interest. I am of the opinion that we already have a great many national interests, even where farm farming is carried out. I do not know how Peter Helander puts himself on the question of creating more national interests than those we have, Madam President. I thought there might be a little consensus between the Center Party and the Social Democrats that we should instead work to pinpoint national interests more clearly and reduce them to the number so that we can live, live and operate in the latitudes where the Member and I are.
i-9jLzHgv9exXJyETdWxyCK2	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answers. What we want to preserve is not only the environment, but also the farmland itself. What tools we use, what we call them and whether it is a national interest or not is less important. Since 2005, the Fäbod movement has been working to make Fäbodbruket an intangible cultural heritage via UNESCO. I don't know if the Government is aware of what has happened recently, but the Institute for Language and Folk Memories, Isof, wrote last year that Swedish pasture farming together with Norwegian site use has qualified to apply to be on the list of intangible cultural heritage. I think it is also an important gesture in order for all these people who are working hard with their farming to feel recognised. It is also a way to raise the level of the farm. This has to do with Swedish history and how you lived before, but also with women's history. It was the women who worked in the pastures. The men were at home on the farm or working in the woods. There is a special cultural history of pastures that is worthy of attention. Above all, biodiversity has been incredibly important. When we no longer have grazing animals in our forests, part of biodiversity disappears. It is certainly the case that the Government cannot promise anything, but I wish the Government would support the UNESCO application. I would also like to refer to the right of foot-and-mouth, which is mentioned in the interpellation. The Mulbete Court, which most people may not know very well, is about having the right to have free animals grazing on the pastures. Over a long period of time it has been the case that many farmhouses are converted into summer cottages and holiday homes. You redo the pastures, and the overcrowding court disappears. When I talk to the farm farmers, I hear they're a little worried about what's going on with the foot-and-mouth right. That issue is also important to monitor. Perhaps the Minister for Rural Affairs has it on his table or has it under control.
i-6mHbf3NGmkHgEwodu7oBYN	Madam President, I would like That is quite right – I have also received information about the preparatory work for a proposal for a nomination that covers both farmland and plant use in both Sweden and Norway. This is an issue under the responsibility of the Minister for Culture, but it is the government that decides who will be nominated from Sweden for UNESCO's lists. This is done on the basis of assessments from a committee of experts and from the Institute of Languages and People's Memories. We will have to come back to this. As far as foot-and-mouth law is concerned, it is exactly as Peter Helander says. On state soil this is not a problem, but if the land has been sold off, it must be agreed or done in order to continue to operate that drift and the mulbite elsewhere too. This can create problems if there is a purchased holiday home in the middle of it. In some cases the waiter has worked, in other oral agreements. However, I have been made aware that it does not always work well, but the importance of farmland and forest grazing is enormous. Both of these questions we are looking at, and I share Peter Helander's view that it would be great to hear the cult in UNESCO again. It would be very special for Swedish farm farming, for Norwegian plant use and for those of us who have experienced it.
i-91wzpawSsZBJ2yooPyMw7Y	Madam President, I would like Bulleting is really special. I remember when I was mayor of Mora and we had the junior hockey World Cup. It began with the cult, and the international players had never heard before. Let me finally send what I got with me from Fågelsjö old farm beyond the river. Many farm farmers do not work full time on this, but they are passionate about it and put their summers on it. It's really hard for them to handle a lot of government agencies and all the bureaucracy. I understand that it is difficult to create an authority for farm farmers, but there is a need for a regulatory framework that is adapted to less food production and less animal husbandry and makes handling easier. You can probably digitize a lot and simplify a lot. It would be good not only for farm farming but for many small food producers in general.
i-5Q5Y1T9i1wwzY1ncvYibev	Madam President, I would like I thank Peter Helander and, of course, Hanna Wagenius for the interest in one of Sweden's prides, which persists after so long. We are constantly working on regulatory simplification, and we are also trying to do so in the new agricultural plan, in the food strategy action plans, etc. We do it because we want to see more production and less administration. Small businesses have it even tougher. With a lot of administration, there is hardly time for production. That is why, as I said, we are constantly working on regulatory simplification. Madam President, I would like Thank you for the debate.
i-GKtpLuCZ5iLgAkeBMjWBcX	Madam President, I would like Maria Gardfjell has asked me how I view reconsidering and increasing the ambition for a fairer distribution of direct payments. Furthermore, she has asked me whether the government will act to support small farmers better. Maria Gardfjell has also asked whether I believe that agricultural subsidies can be better used and have stronger climate and environmental management and investments in organic farming, and if so, whether I intend to act accordingly. Finally, she has asked what strengthened climate and environmental measures I and the government will present in the dialogue processes described by the government are the next steps in the dialogue with the European Commission. One of the government's most important priorities is to accelerate the pace of climate change. The overall budget for the environment and climate area has increased significantly in the next programming period of the CAP compared to the previous period. I would also like to point out that in Sweden there are many small farms, and their contribution is important not least in terms of environmental values. Sweden's proposal for a strategic plan for the common agricultural policy is based on a solid foundation. Several expert councils, referrals and other meetings have been conducted with the aim of obtaining views on, among other things, proposals from the National Board of Agriculture and the needs analysis prepared within the Government Office. The Riksdag has also received information about the work on several occasions. In addition, the work has been reviewed for two years by a specially procured ex-ante evaluator. The fact that we have a well-founded plan is an important starting point for the government when we respond to the observations. The strategic plan will soon enter into force. Farmers should be able to apply for the new payments from January 2023. The government wants to support active farmers who produce food or other ecosystem services. It is then natural that there is a link between the size of the aid and the scope of the activity. This is the approach which has been pursued so far and which is still proposed after 2023. At the same time, it has been taken into account that larger, more rational and efficient companies have a slightly less need for support. Therefore, some aid for large enterprises is reduced, while the aid for small enterprises remains the same. The Swedish Government fully supports the ambition that European agricultural policy should have a high level of environmental and climate ambition. The environmental and climate compensations, including the compensations for organic production, in the Swedish plan are designed to meet the requirements, while at the same time they should be interesting for companies to apply. This offers Swedish farmers the opportunity to receive compensation for their environmental and climate work. One example of the changes that have been made to steer towards a higher environmental and climate ambition is that part of the income support should be used for annual environmental benefits. Compared to the current period, more money is allocated to measures to reduce eutrophication, strengthen biodiversity and halt climate change. For example, aid for medium crops is introduced, as is aid for the planning of precision farms, aid for irrigation ponds, establishment aid for energy forestry and a special effort to strengthen biodiversity in rural areas. The government has also decided to increase the level of compensation for many measures and implements a series of simplifications in support. Other examples that can help to increase climate efficiency include animal welfare payments and investment aid for competitiveness. In addition, the Government makes historically large investments in national forms of support in order to reach the climate targets, for example in the Climate Region and increased support for the production of biogas. In the further dialogue with the European Commission, the Government will answer the questions asked by the European Commission and provide the clarifications requested, all in order to have an approved strategic plan in good time before 2023.
i-BvE13xWdEXFyCLzTkR2c3p	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Rural Development for his answer. Nevertheless, I think there is a great deal to be discussed about these issues. In December, Sweden's proposal for a strategic plan was submitted to the European Commission for approval. When the Minister for Rural Development presented the strategic plan in December, one of the key messages was that the green ambitions had been raised. But obviously the European Commission did not agree, which can be read in their observation letters that have come. The response that the government has given to the European Commission subsequently does not meet mildly with the criticism. Increased climate and environmental performance is the central idea of the reformed agricultural policy in the EU. And the Commission's assessment is not flattering for us Swedes. The Green Party believes that Swedish agricultural policy does not meet the EU's own strategic objectives in the investments from farm to table and the European Green Paper. Nor is it appropriate for Sweden to take such a negative position in relation to the extensive environmental and climate change work that the EU is doing so well. Sweden should be in the front line for greener and more climate-driven agriculture and not join the worst in the class, which risks being the result when we also see that the Riksdag is very actively pushing on as a kind of backlash against the environment. Madam President, I would like The Minister for Rural Development specifically mentions some environmental and climate measures in his response. Among other things, one-year new allowances are mentioned. They're important. However, a quarter of direct payments should go to annual environmental payments. However, the government kept its list of measures very brief, which the Commission strongly criticises. The reason for this was that the Swedish Board of Agriculture has data problems and is unable to expand its database. With regard to major climate and environmental impacts, the Commission asks where the evidence is that there is a better environmental impact. The European Commission says that there is a risk that the Swedish strategy will have a net negative climate effect, because there are no measures. Then my question to the Minister for Rural Development is whether it is not right now that it is a good time to say that Sweden must change the strategic plan. Do we need to ensure clearer grassland support? Do we need to ensure that the targeted cattle aid is also weighed up with greater climate change efforts? Another issue also raised in the Commission's criticism is precisely the issue of carbon sequestration and biodiversity. Here the government says that it wants to make a special effort to strengthen biodiversity in Skåne and in plains in southern Sweden. But why don't you want to do it all over Sweden?
i-5KMFzNVBS7kcGk2qkDu4cG	Madam President, I would like I thank Maria Gardfjell for this. I would like to start by saying, however, that six points were raised before this plan. Talks were held with the parties of the Riksdag in the run-up to this plan, and discussions were held with the authorities on this plan precisely to ensure that we raised our environmental and climate ambitions while also wanting to see active agriculture, a generational change and young farmers. Sweden, as the honourable Member says, has submitted its reply, its plan, in time for approval. Not all Member States did, and the 19 that have submitted on time have received the same type of comprehensive wording from the European Commission. So we're not at all unique in this case. What we would have been unique in, however, would have been if we had not had a dialogue. This is about SEK 60 billion, and if the European Commission had just said that they understand everything we have written and where we are going, I would have been very surprised. In the previous rural development programme, the European Commission asked 333 questions, and then it was only the rural development programme. The large-scale CAP, which is larger, now asks 262 questions. There are therefore fewer questions asked, but that being said, we must, of course, answer the Commission. The first thing we answered was just a thank you and that we had received it. Now we will clarify our answers both in writing and in dialogue with the Commission so that we understand each other, know where we are going and simply work on what we really want: we want climate- and environmental-smart agriculture while, according to the food strategy, we want to see increased food production. Of course, we also want to tell the Commission about the other subsidies where I know that the Green Party and the Social Democrats have joined forces, such as biogas. I visited Vårgårda last week. There, 22 farmers, together with the companies, have joined forces in a large biogas investment. Later this week I was on Öland where 20 farmers plan the same thing both to get the biogas to their farms and to get a rot residue. We know what the situation with fertilizers is now. So there is an incredible amount of positive happening, which is not just about the plan, and I would also like to have the opportunity to tell the Commission.
i-B5heu5TofroqA2BhdzSfqk	Madam President, I would like It is positive to hear that the government wants to clarify its answers. Then perhaps we could have some answers here today about some of the content, because it is incredibly important that we hear what changes the government is prepared to make now. The government says that it wants an active agriculture with more young farmers. That is very good, and it is one of the few points on which the European Commission also agrees. Many young farmers are needed, and a change of generation is needed. There's a deal. However, the European Commission questions why Sweden does not intend to apply the support for small farms provided for in the common agricultural policy. A key idea of the reform is that large farms should receive less support and smaller farms should receive more support. It is therefore a question of income support for farmers, and the government thinks that large farms should receive the most. Why? The reason why the EU now has a policy for supporting smaller farms is that there has been serious criticism that too much money goes to castles and estates. Where is the Social Democratic idea now in agricultural policy? Is it to continue along the road and knock out small farms? To bet on the anonymous food? To promote bulk production before Swedish gastronomy? The Government's answer states that a link between the size of aid and the scale of activity would be natural. Or is it actually the other way around? One agricultural journalist put it very funny a short time ago: Sweden's structural change is nothing new since the inland ice. It is a huge restructuring that is taking place in Swedish agriculture. What was ten farms twenty years ago is one big farm today. Amongst agriculture, there is a decline and specialisation is increasing. At the same time, many farms are completely closed down. Sweden currently has 3 000 dairy farms. If the focus continues, there will soon be a thousand dairy farms fewer. Is there no reason for the government to start thinking about how structural rationalization affects Swedish agriculture? Are there also scale effects or effects of structural rationalisation for the whole of agriculture also on large farms? Yes, there is. A number of farms are needed for agriculture to work, to share machines, to have access to veterinarians and many, many other things. This will be a moment 22, because the government says that food should be produced where it is cheapest. Is that really what we want? Is it smaller and less profitable farms that are to be knocked out, or is it right now we need to focus on breaking the trend and increasing Sweden's self-sufficiency and reducing Sweden's and agriculture's vulnerability by getting food production across the country? A gastronomic diversity is about interesting gastronomy having a need for interesting primary production.
i-MrA3TKNiT9nSVba6UCoGoq	Madam President, I would like For me as an old restaurant worker, gastronomy is of course amazing. But the food strategy underlying this plan is about trying to build on the underlying competitiveness. We shall have an active agriculture and not pay for land that lies, but we shall farm it. We are going to have young farmers, and the additional payment to young people is only paid up to 200 hectares because we want to ensure that more and even smaller farms can be started. If we look at different types of farms, it is simply the case that the share of the smallest farms is increasing, i.e. those farmers who often do not live on their farms but also have some other job alongside them. As Maria Gardfjell says, we can also see that the proportion of large companies is increasing. Where it decreases is in heredadet 20 up to 200 hectares where you live on your farm, and there is perhaps the most important support. We want to meet them, precisely because we want to see increased food production with more gastronomy and a food chain that works. After all, we have jointly developed a food strategy that says that we should increase profitability at farm level. We are going to increase food production, we are going to ensure that the profitability of the entire chain is maintained and we are also going to increase our exports. That is what the strategic plan contains. At the same time, we are reducing support for the largest companies, which still have significant rationalisation gains. The others we're not reducing. So we are trying to catch this. The whole plan is for active agriculture and increased food production throughout Sweden. One should be able to run agriculture throughout Sweden, and therefore we also have the compensatory aid that is so important for northern Sweden where I live. This is good for Sweden's preparedness, and that is how we strengthen Sweden.
i-PQocSxCryvcK47DnNLmw2W	Madam President, I would like It is certainly a step in 2022 that the government says that food should be produced where it is most cheap and that you should have more competitiveness. Is that what we want? Sweden has been exceptional through many times and has never wanted to slow down structural rationalization. Where is this going to end? It does not end with increased production, with greater biodiversity and with more farmers throughout the country. In the food industry, however, we are talking about having food production without farmers. Is that really what the government wants to see? The Minister for Rural Development says that many people don't live on their farms and that they don't have to care much about them. If you support production agriculture, you can ask which producers we want to see more of. Are they the ones who deliver products to the gastronomy, the food producers who also contribute to Sweden becoming a tourist destination? It is not bulk production that attracts. But the larger farms also have other revenues. The advantage of supporting small farms, small farms, is also about the reduced vulnerability. Small farmers need increased support in order to be able to carry on their farms more full-time. The government should spend much more time on that.
i-FWmpy4MQBFzriY9G3D9QuE	Madam President, I would like I beg to differ for saying that we do not care about small farms. I never said that to the honourable Member in my speech. What I said was that the number of enterprises with up to 20 hectares actually increases in relation to the total number of holdings in the agricultural sector. On the other hand, the number in the sector with between 20 and 200 hectares is decreasing. It also increases in those who have over 200 hectares. That's what I said about politics. I also said that this is a plan for active agriculture where we ensure that food production is increased, as we agree in the food strategy. We also make sure to increase profitability at farm level. We make sure to increase profitability at all stages and that it even goes on exports. Of course, we also support Eldrimner, who is where I live. We make sure that the good gastronomy is given the opportunity to simply produce and sell more of what we know is also a travel guide, which is good for the tourism industry and for everything else. The whole chain should hold. But this is, on the basis of the food strategy that we have jointly developed, a plan that should simply be more environmentally and climate friendly. At the same time, we are ensuring that we follow up on the food strategy, so that we get active agriculture with young farmers and increased food production.
i-E1AZeE7XRTXh4De4rECmNT	Madam President, I would like Maria Gardfjell has asked me whether I and the government have any idea of the economic losses in the more professional cultivation of potatoes, tomatoes and other crops affected by the failure of pesticide residues of pyralides. Furthermore, the interpeller has asked whether I will work to limit the use of pyralides in Swedish agriculture through advice, information measures or other soft instruments until the EU has regulated the use of pyralides harder. Finally, the interpeller has asked how I can ensure that producers do not receive feed contaminated with pesticides to their holdings, so that fertilisers do not become impossible to circulate and sell profitably. I have taken note of the important work of the Swedish Free-time Farming Association. However, according to information provided by the authorities and the industry, professional farming has not had the same experience as recreational farming in the form of undergrowth due to pesticide residues. The perception of both authorities and industry is that these injuries are relatively local and limited in vocational cultivation. Having said that, the damage to the individual farmer and, of course, to the individual case can be more severe. For professional farming, plant protection products containing pyralides are of great importance for the control of weeds in cereals and rapeseed. The legislation governing which plant protection products may be placed on the EU market is largely harmonised within the EU and the regulatory framework aims to ensure a high level of protection of human health and the environment. As Maria Gardfjell also mentions, Sweden was the driving force in increasing the conditions for the use of clopyralid when the substance was re-evaluated last year in order to minimise the risks of its use. D problems that residues of pyralides in plant nutrition and manure may cause in the cultivation of certain sensitive crops are known. There is ongoing work on informing about these from both authorities and industry. Both the Swedish Board of Agriculture and the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate and the Swedish Farmers' Federation have in recent years informed about both risks and product conditions in order to minimise the negative effects of pesticide residues. In Sweden, since the 1980s, we have worked actively to reduce the risks associated with the use of pesticides, and Sweden belongs to the countries in Europe that have the lowest use of pesticides.
i-84pP2LNRcpkAxcXyv9WtPd	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Rural Affairs, for your answer. On their website, the Swedish leisure farming organisation has very good information about what they call the Pyralid store. It is about residues of plant protection products clopyralid and aminopyralid being detected in organic plant nutrients in 2020 and that in the last year they have also been detected in animal manure. It causes damage to thousands of plants. Data have been collected from affected leisure farmers and analysed suspected plant nutrients during two seasons. The results are worrying to say the least. Pyralides are found in almost all organic raw materials – we are talking about fertilizer raw materials – originating in agriculture and used by leisure farmers for plant nutrition. Residues in cow manure, horse manure, sheep manure, chicken manure and maize starch have been detected. It can affect recreational farmers who buy organic plant nutrients at a garden centre or those who have access to manure and straw from a riding school or a local farm. Even growers who use chicken manure from their own chickens but give the hens purchased feed are at risk of plant damage. The reason why I put questions to the Minister for Rural Development about how professional farmers are affected is that this knowledge has not yet been presented. Anyone using manure may be affected. Madam President, I would like It was a bit of an expected answer that the professional branch has not suffered damage to the same extent as recreational farmers. But this is probably linked to the fact that the Swedish Board of Agriculture believes that professional farmers use mineral fertilisers to a greater extent. But this does not apply to all professional uses. Is the government completely rid of the ecological farmers and their situation? The problems are linked to organic fertilisers. Farmers themselves are aware of how they can counteract damage to their own subsequent sensitive crops when they have this in their own production. But the news that has now come to light is that it is spread with feed to other animals on other farms whose manure is then sold in, for example, a garden center. There is an overconfidence in the government's response to what can be achieved with information to the downstream trade in organic fertilisers. For example, information from the LRF is limited to how to handle straw and manure and those who buy those products. As we know these problems now, they are not limited to straw and manure. The government has turned to the Swedish Board of Agriculture, which says that these are important substances for agriculture. But in an environmental perspective, it is not part of the test of valuing the benefits. These are persistent, seriously dangerous chemicals that affect recreational and professional farming. What does the government intend to do?
i-VinSntbsN1bfaLPTHyHrBL	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Gardfjell, for an important question! As I said in my interpellation response, pesticides are something that we have been working hard and strategically with in Sweden since the 1980s. At the same time, we know that some of the pesticides will remain in place, simply in order to be able to cope with agriculture until new and better substances arrive. The legislation governing which plant protection products may be placed on the EU market is largely harmonised within the EU. The regulatory framework aims to ensure a high level of protection for both humans and animals. Now, however, tomatoes and other plants are affected, as the FOR very well has noticed. It is just as the honourable Member says, Madam President: this was already revealed in 2020, and it was then attributed to the use of imported liquid organic fertilisers. According to FOR, it can now be seen in other manure. This is an important issue. What about it? Healthy and healthy plants are important if we are to maintain a high livelihood in agriculture. Of course, recreational farming also contributes to this, as Maria Gardfjell says. After all, Sweden is part of the EU. Our laws and regulations must harmonize with the rules in force in the EU. We constantly test them, and the last time this was tested, Sweden pushed that we would actually make sure to reduce the risks with pyralides. The questions put to me by Mr Gardfjell in his interpellation were really about whether we are making information efforts. The Swedish Board of Agriculture is doing its information work, the LRF is doing its information work and FOR is, of course, doing its information work to ensure that risks are reduced and, quite simply, to reduce the spread. The EU regulatory framework is not just: you can use this. It is also: You may use this in this way. It is clear how to use this plant protection product.
i-X5rYmMnGu3S8NFB9rQ72sa	Madam President, I would like Journalist Lena Israelsson helped to increase knowledge of the problem discovered a couple of years ago with plant nutrients containing pyralides. As a result, the retailers of this plant nutrient stopped selling these products. Requirements also changed their rules so that fertilising products would not be contaminated with pesticide residues. Now the problem is much bigger. Now it has turned out that this is found in chicken manure, in all kinds of manure, in soil mixtures – everywhere. All recreational farmers are at risk of suffering from these toxins, which are also used in increasing numbers in Swedish agriculture. When you have looked at these questions, you think of recreational farmers, among other things. There are 2.6 million gardens in Sweden, of which almost 2 million belong to villas and 50 000 are made up of colonial plots. Many are now being advised to grow more at home, due to crises and risks for the future. Growing and being able to grow is part of our security for the future. Now that we see that the pyralides have this negative effect on crops, both organic horticulture and home gardening, we wonder why the government does not want to act more forcefully. Sweden has translated the report and submitted it to the Commission, but what is the next step? Will the government push for more action by the Commission? Or will the government, based on the knowledge available, actually ban the use of pyralides in Swedish agriculture? This is a matter of fundamental importance. We now have new results. The problem is not limited at all to what is circulating on a farm, but it is also transferred between farms. The residues in chicken manure are a very clear example of this. In this respect, the Minister for Rural Development certainly has a clear responsibility. How to ensure that the manure produced in Swedish agriculture is not contaminated and does not destroy for recreational farmers? You might think: Yes, it's just recreational farmers, or: Yes, it's just organic growers. But it's huge costs when you buy a tomato plant and it actually dies. I would like to know whether the government is prepared to come forward with proposals for a ban on pyralid in the EU or in Sweden. The Regulation provides support for prohibitions. Pesticides must not have unacceptable harmful effects on plants, including downstream ones. We should be aware, Madam President, that these are chemicals that Sweden banned in the 1970s because they were so dangerous.
i-HuLz9rBmoFQhN5HsG3Dn6P	Madam President, I would like Pesticides and how we handle them have been a very important issue for Sweden for a very long time, ever since the 80s. Throughout this time we have worked to phase out the bad and to phase out the better. As far as this particular issue is concerned, it was not long ago that, during the negotiations in the European Union, we really ensured that the risks of pyralid were reduced. At the same time, we know, as I said, that Swedish agriculture right now needs this type of pesticides, for example for rapeseed, to ensure that we have a production before the better funds come. There are currently no general rules regarding the content of fertilizers in Sweden when they come from farm animals as well as manure in the form of plant parts and residues that we define as manure. The labelling that can be applied to manure is also voluntary, and not everyone notices. What we are trying to do in this case, however, is to ensure a high level of protection of human health and the environment. A plant protection product may be authorised only if it does not have harmful effects on human or animal health and does not have an unacceptable effect on the environment. The Swedish Board of Agriculture, which is responsible for advising and informing users of plant protection products, also has training. For example, all professional users of plant protection products must undergo compulsory training. It also provides advice and information on the use and management of plant protection products through actions in the form of skills development under the rural development programme. In various ways, then, we try to minimise the risks that this brings, and we have a broad information effort so that we always know what is going on. As far as this particular pesticide is concerned, it should remain on the farm where you use it, but now we have heard what the honourable Member says about the risk, however, that it unfortunately ends up in other places.
i-79TFDAZm9xWsBAE2DBtQyd	Madam President, I would like Pyralides are thus spread with animal feed and other plant products and affect downstream leisure farmers and professional growers. The only solution to get rid of this problem is a ban on the use of the active substances in pyralides and its preferably being introduced in the EU, but Sweden can take precedence. What I hear from the Minister for Rural Development is that she is not prepared to support such a proposal. The European Chemicals Agency ( Chemicals Inspectorate) has mentioned in meetings with the Commission in January that this is a major problem. But what will Sweden do now? Will more stringent demands be made on the Commission? The regulation supports a ban. Harmonised rules are needed, not least because training and compulsory training at farm level are not sufficient. When a farmer buys feed, whether it is imported from outside or feed from Sweden, there is a risk that it contains pyralides. Out comes the shit from the animals that you then sell on, which in turn affects other growers. That is totally unacceptable. These problems have been known since the 1960s when they made the first attempts at SLU. Pichloram, one of these funds, was banned in Sweden in the 1970s. Now, quite recently, we have received these topics as the Minister talks about their use, but now they are being used more and more for every year that passes. How can we stop the pyralides?
i-5oPSqT9fNNj7Uxuqmp7ofn	Madam President, I would like I share Maria Gardfjell's view that it is important that what we use in our agriculture and in other ways be safe for people, health and animals and, of course, that it should not destroy for recreational farmers. But I am also saying, which I think the honourable Member is very well aware of, that Sweden was the driving force in extending the conditions for the use of clopyralid when the subject was reviewed last year. It was in order to minimise the risks of use. I think that we should follow this question, both the honourable Member and I, to see what is happening and to give these information campaigns by the Swedish Agriculture Agency with training to professional farmers and also the information and advice campaigns by the LRF and the Swedish Agriculture Agency. Will it have the effect we want to see? We know that this is harmonised legislation, and yet we cannot stop imports when we have harmonised legislation within the European Union and free trade flows. We must ensure that we keep minimising the risks. We have a strong agriculture and are continuing what we started back in the 1980s, that is to say, changing and ensuring that other substances than pesticides are not good at all times.
