i-TFfxgjF5hZFRMEnQZSHDQy	Mr. Old President! The European Union was originally a peace project – a response to the horrors and abuses of the Second World War. The idea was that a new war would be prevented by braiding strong ties between the citizens of our continent. Here Europe has been a real success. It is a unique example of peaceful cooperation between independent states. We regard a war between the Member States of the European Union as unthinkable today. The importance of the EU as a security policy foothold is also more evident today than it has been for a long time. Our own security policy choices are made nationally and sovereignly, but in order to achieve our objectives of freedom, democracy and independence, the Community within the EU is inalienable. The Union is Sweden's most important foreign and security policy arena. The recent unacceptable Russian demands and ultimatum have been met with European and transatlantic unity and firmness of principle. There is a readiness here for comprehensive and severe sanctions if Russia were to tighten up the situation further. Such sanctions are most effective if they are implemented jointly at EU level. Mr. Old President! EU cooperation gives us an enormous amount in Sweden. It provides a market in which companies and all of us can freely buy and sell goods and services, creating jobs and prosperity. It is a democratic tool for influencing our neighbourhood and a platform for strengthening the Swedish voice in the world. It is sometimes argued that the EU restricts rather than enriches. Many nationalists claim that it would somehow be possible to take back control, as they say, by leaving the Union. The reality is exactly the opposite. Active participation in European cooperation gives a country like Sweden the best opportunities to influence its own destiny and gain control of life. This is the best way to ensure the principles of democracy, human rights and openness to the outside world that have served Europe and Sweden so well. When Sweden chairs the EU Council of Ministers in the first half of 2023, these principles will shape the work. This is an important commitment which is about pushing the Council agenda forward and helping the Union to take decisions that benefit the citizens of Europe. Mr. Old President! The government has three clear priorities for its work: to break segregation and combat crime, to speed up climate change and to take back democratic control of welfare. This applies not only to national policies, but we are also working on these issues at European level. There is a good chance of achieving results in all three areas through an active EU policy. The first priority concerns segregation and crime. It is being pushed and blown up on the streets of Sweden, and this is absolutely appalling. The power of the whole community will now be mobilized to break the gangs. Organised crime is cross-border in nature, which is why cross-border solutions are also needed. Through the European Union, Sweden can fight the criminal gangs with far more force. Over the past year, cooperation between police authorities across Europe has repeatedly delivered concrete results in the fight against crime, and important steps have been taken to deepen existing police cooperation. However, more should be done. It is about increased cooperation between prosecutors and police, but also about legislation so that law enforcement authorities get the tools they need. Migration is also an important security issue. It is about control over our borders and knowledge of who is in our countries. Effective tools for return and readmission are needed. However, we should not forget that migration is about people and human security. Therefore, the conditions for a long-term sustainable, humane and legally secure migration policy within the EU need to be improved. An important part is to overcome the fact that only a few countries take responsibility for the people who come to our Union. This is not reasonable. Negotiations are now under way on a common regulatory framework that must lead to order and order in the EU's migration management. Mr. Old President! The second priority concerns the climate. We're in the middle of a climate transition, and it needs to be speeded up. The climate crisis is the existential issue of our time – in the long term, this is about survival on our planet. We must stop the climate crisis, and the EU must lead the way with an ambitious climate policy. The EU Member States have set the target of reducing emissions by at least 55% by 2030. The government will work to ensure that the EU reaches climate neutrality by 2050 in accordance with the European Climate Act. The goals are one thing. Now they are to be implemented in concrete policies. The Commission presented last summer the comprehensive package of legislative proposals called Fit for 55. The ambitions there are quite correct, but the government does not support the Commission's approach in all parts of the package. We are also clear about this in the negotiations. The requirements for emission reductions are, of course, the most priority – not to regulate our forestry in detail or to pay massive subsidies. At the same time, it is clear that we need to be aware that a far-reaching willingness to compromise will be required of all involved in order to achieve results. Common solutions within the EU are crucial. In particular, emissions trading has indeed contributed in recent years to a more rapid phasing out of coal combustion. Sweden is now pushing for further expansion and strengthening of the emissions trading system. Mr. Old President! Climate is the destiny of our time, but it is also an opportunity. Around Europe, attention is now being paid to what is happening in Sweden. The green new industrialisation here, with carbon-free steel production and large-scale battery production, is leading the way to a sustainable society. This path also leads to new jobs. The green industrial revolution also places demands on politics. The updated EU industrial strategy presented last year puts forward several proposals in this direction. We do not believe that it is politicians who should point out tomorrow's technologies and solutions. However, European cooperation in particularly important sectors may sometimes be necessary to boost the transition. Forests play a central role in climate change. The government safeguards the climate benefits of forests, both as carbon sinks and as a source of sustainable raw materials that replace fossil-based products. Swedish forestry should not be regulated in detail in Brussels. As Europe's economies resume after the pandemic, economic growth and climate change will go hand in hand. This requires new green investments across the EU. However, we do not believe that these investments should be financed through further joint debt at European level. Sound public finances remain crucial for the whole of Europe. It would also strengthen European resilience to future crises. Mr. Old President! The third priority concerns welfare. The pandemic is the greatest threat to our well-being for a very long time. The dramatic increase in infection rates has again strained care to the extremes of Europe. However, in the midst of this health crisis, there is reason to draw attention to the success of the EU countries' joint procurement of covid-19 vaccines. It has contributed to the unprecedented rapid development of safe and effective vaccines, which have saved many lives around the world. Crises we best meet with common forces. When borders have been closed and medical supplies have not been able to arrive, it has affected everyone. That is why we shall continue to uphold the fundamental principles of free movement. At the same time, however, we need to develop and strengthen the EU's own crisis management capability in the area of civil protection. There are several good examples here. I can mention the fire-extinguishing aircraft, which are also stationed in Sweden and which this summer helped to combat fires in Greece. Another example is the EU-wide stocks of medical equipment. One of them is known in Kristinehamn. The foundation for a functioning well-being is a strong and viable economy in our society. This in turn requires a strong and viable Europe. The strength of the European Union and its economy is its openness – openness between the Member States and also towards the outside world, so that goods, services and ideas can be exchanged outside the Union as well. This is a strong engine for growth and new jobs and contributes to reducing the vulnerability of Europe's economy. There are now currents in the Union that are moving in a somewhat different direction, towards more of the solitude and protectionism. This is the wrong way to go. The government is firm in its efforts to safeguard the EU's openness to the outside world. We will safeguard the model that has made Swedish export companies so successful and that has created so many jobs in Sweden. In this way, we also protect jobs and well-being. Transparency is also a cornerstone of cooperation on common security across the Atlantic and with other partners. Few links are as clear as the one between citizens' welfare and access to decent jobs. But more also needs to be done to strengthen the position of workers in our Union. No one should have to worry about getting hurt or getting sick at work. No one should risk dying of their job. By tightening up the rules on hazardous substances in workplaces, a good – or at least better – working environment can be made possible throughout the EU. At the same time, national competence in this area should continue to be safeguarded, not least in terms of wage formation. Mr. Old President! I have talked about how the three priorities of the government can also be channelled into European policy. But I would also like to discuss another area of concern. Cooperation in our Union is based on the commitment of all Member States to respect our fundamental values: freedom and democracy, respect for human rights, equality, equality and tolerance, justice and diversity, and an independent judiciary. These are not exclusive European values. But these are the values of the European Union, and we, as members, have all promised to stick to them. Therefore, it is very serious when respect for these values fails in several Member States – when LGBTI people are harassed, when women's right to abortion is restricted, when journalists are intimidated to silence, and especially when respect for the rule of law is challenged by the dismissal of judges and it is even called into question whether the European Court of Justice ruling at all needs to be complied with. Addressing this is a matter for all Member States. The government will push for the European Commission to continue to take initiatives to break the trend. The new conditionality mechanism, which makes EU budget resources conditional on the principles of the rule of law, must become an effective tool. The values are, as I said, the basis of EU cooperation as a whole. But they also give weight to the Union's voice on the global stage. Europe's voice in foreign policy needs to be strengthened – in order to create common security together with others and to stand up clearly against anti-democratic forces beyond the borders of the Union. At the same time, the EU remains a union of independent nations, not a federal state. There are things that we best decide for ourselves here in Sweden and will decide over, such as our military defence, our wage formation model and our forestry. That's how it's supposed to stay. But basically, Europe is giving us more influence and more power over our own future. Mr. Old President! Rarely have the arguments been stronger for Swedish EU membership. Rarely has the need for viable European cooperation been so great. And rarely has an active Swedish voice been needed so much in our Union. That is why the government will continue tirelessly to work for a Europe that will help us crack the gangs, drive the climate change and strengthen welfare – in addition, to safeguard our values. That is exactly what Sweden needs.
i-PNdZBgFRqk6vmBJnuZ6urR	Mr. Old President! EU cooperation guarantees peace and stability between Member States. With Swedish membership of the European Union, we are committed to this very stability. The importance of this basic foundation cannot be stressed enough. Today, history is reminded of Russia's aggressive action against Ukraine. Such action must be met by a strong and united European voice in very close interaction with our transatlantic partners. In addition, China is gaining increased global influence while Europe is losing competitiveness. Within the Union, we are seeing increased cross-border crime, continued high migratory pressure on the EU's external borders and intra-EU friction in reducing our emissions. EU cooperation does not have all the solutions, nor should it have all the solutions. But European cooperation is the main arena for finding common solutions to problems that Sweden cannot solve on its own. It is about the fact that with our EU membership we are allowed to enjoy freedoms and opportunities that we would not otherwise have had. It is precisely this, that is, the ability to solve cross-border problems and the freedom for people and businesses to pursue their potential without unnecessary obstacles, which is the European Union's strengths and which should be the focus of the European Union. It is clear that much can be done to improve the functioning of the European Union. Vulnerability that the coronapndemine has exposed needs to be addressed. Our economies need to be reopened as soon as possible. The four freedoms of the EU must once again apply, including in practice: the free movement of persons, goods, services and capital. Mr. Old President! In just under a year's time, Sweden will take over the EU's President's club. It provides a great opportunity to strengthen Sweden's influence in European cooperation, and believe me, the need is, to say the least, great after almost eight years of S-led governments' mismanagement of EU policy. When other Member States have applied for Sweden's support, the government has chosen not to act, even though it has been about Sweden's crucial issues, such as the Swedish forest. Sweden needs to be much better at building alliances with like-minded Member States. Once the S-led governments have shown commitment, it has been on the wrong issues. With the social pillar, the government has put Sweden's labour market model at risk. It's very serious. Sweden needs a government with higher ambitions for EU work and well thought-out priorities. The Moderates believe that five areas should be prioritised. Firstly, increased growth and more free trade. The European single market is at the heart of European cooperation. Almost three quarters of Sweden's exports go to the internal market, and it is a springboard for Swedish companies out in the world. It is therefore worrying that some countries want to see increased protectionism and supranational detailed regulation. On the contrary, reforms are needed to freer trade and reduce regulatory burdens, not least in services and digital products. Sweden should be a driving force for the EU to establish more international trade agreements. If we succeed in this, we will strengthen the resilience of Europe and Sweden. Secondly, making Sweden more secure through more effective law enforcement cooperation. According to the EU Police Office Europol, organised crime within the EU has never before been such a major threat to both citizens and our societies. It's a systemic threat. We see this not least here at home in Sweden. The Moderates have a comprehensive criminal policy programme for the European level as well. Among other things, it is a question of strengthening Europol by giving it greater powers and making it more operational. The exchange of information between national police authorities and the EU information system also needs to be strengthened. Thirdly, a more efficient and modern climate and energy policy. Sweden has a unique opportunity to become Europe's green force and, together with the rest of the EU, show the world that it is possible to combine more jobs and increased economic prosperity with reduced emissions. Dirty coal and Russian gas must be phased out in favour of fossil-free energies such as nuclear and renewable. Put a price on emissions and invest in green technologies and innovation. The Swedish forest should not be managed in detail from Brussels. Instead, one must understand its potential power in climate change. Fourthly, strengthen foreign and security cooperation. In times of crisis, Europe's strength and cohesion are being tested. Russia should not be allowed to undermine the right of sovereign nations to shape their own future. The EU must stand up for the European security regime. The EU is not NATO, but the EU has other muscles. If the sanctioning tool is used sufficiently forcefully, Putin also needs to listen. It is in order to strengthen the resilience of the EU in precisely such crises that the common foreign and security policy needs to be further strengthened. Among other things, it is a question of abolishing the ability of individual countries to block EU common security strategies. The EU countries are getting stronger when they speak with the same voice instead of each one alone. Finally, and fifthly: get a workable migration policy in place. This is a matter of destiny for the EU and Sweden. We need better control of immigration. 60% of those seeking asylum in the EU today do not have grounds for asylum, and only 30% of those who have received an expulsion order return. Immigration to Sweden must be reduced, not least in order for us to break the segregation and stop the emergence of shadow societies. The ongoing negotiations for a new European migration policy must land in a system where former large recipients such as Sweden get a discount in the division of responsibilities. Mr. Old President! At EU level, it is often the countries that dare to take the lead, take the place and make demands that have influence. Sweden must be better at using European cooperation to have an impact on Swedish interests. It requires well thought-out priorities and higher ambitions. The Swedish government lacks both. When we go to the polls in eight months it is not only to choose a new direction for Sweden but also to choose how Sweden as a country will influence at the European level. Sweden needs a bourgeois government that really takes the work of the EU seriously.
i-TwKV2yKkEPjS7DZf29uKSp	Mr. Old President! Europe is in a serious security situation because of the situation in Ukraine. The EU's role in this situation must be to show unity in the right of all independent states to their territory and to choose their own security policy. It must be crystal clear to Russia that Europe does not accept that threats and armed violence can govern other countries. Mr. Old President! There are many ways of looking at Russia's imperialist world view from a European perspective. While one can rejoice at a high degree of unity within the EU, it is clear that the dependence of many countries on Russia affects. European energy policy has failed because of dependence on Russian gas, which risks hampering countries' ability to take decisive action. As a result, the sanction weapon loses power, which in turn increases the risk of conflict. European energy policy is based on a kind of pious hope that nuclear power can be disposed of and that weather-dependent energy can at some point become the base of energy supply. At the same time, it is hoped that it will be fully possible to buy gas from Russia on the spot market, if necessary, without signing long-term contracts. We have now seen that this is not compatible with reality. We are still faced with the risk, even without sanctions, that gas supplies in Europe are running out, that prices are rising in shock for the whole of Europe and Sweden and that we are moving towards an energy crisis of a completely different magnitude than we have experienced in the past. This shows us that we need increased incentives for investment in planned fossil-free energy and not more shut-down reactors and that a strategy is needed in Europe to deal with the dependence on natural gas in the short and medium term, while reducing the production of natural gas in the EU. Mr. Old President! Covid and climate policy have come to dominate the initiatives of the Commission in recent years. Common to all initiatives in these areas is that the power of the Commission in Brussels is increasing at the expense of the influence of Sweden and other individual countries. The Covid crisis led to the transformation of the EU into a debt union that takes up loans. To receive this money, countries are forced to go to the Commission with their hat in hand and pray beautifully. The Recovery Fund transforms EU cooperation, at a Swedish cost of nearly SEK 150 billion. This is something that the Swedish Democrats have been quite alone in this House in firmly rejecting. We can also note that the taxpayer's Waste Ombudsman initiative, following a vote, has given the Corona Fund a prize as the biggest waste of the year. Well deserved, I say. And there's gonna be more waste funds. Mr. Old President! Now the Commission's green hand, Fit for 55, will go through the EU machine with a plethora of important pieces of legislation. It is about decisions that will have a decisive impact on how we use our forest, how our companies deal with the outside world and what it will cost to travel whether it is on the road, at sea or in the air. Fit for 55, like the Recovery Fund, will become transformative. This is, for example, about Swedish forestry policy, where the EU sees Sweden as an exotic carbon sink up there in the north. If the proposal for a requirement for increased carbon dioxide uptake goes through, we can see reduced fellings in Sweden of up to 16 per cent. This would mean a complete slowdown in investment in the forest industry. The Fit for 55 also includes a new EU fund, the Social Climate Fund. This time, more than EUR 72 billion will be distributed across the EU Member States to compensate for the increased costs brought by Fit for 55. In short, the proposal means that an average Bulgarian will receive EUR 400 per year, while a Swede will have to settle for EUR 43 per year – and at the same time pay EUR 100 or more for this. Mr. Old President! The European Commission has long talked about the need for taxation at EU level. Now we are talking about new own resources. That's exactly what's happening now. The Commission will collect money from both CO2 tariffs and the ETS. The money will be used to strengthen the EU budget and the associated funds so that the citizens of other countries will be compensated for the increased costs. We are approaching a federalist dream in which people become dependent on Brussels' goodwill to make ends meet for the private economy. For the Swedish part, this means increased costs regardless of whether it is through own resources or increased fees. What we see is a power apparatus in Brussels that uses covid and climate as a means of concentrating more and more power in Brussels. Here, Sweden and other like-minded states must be prepared to resist.
i-GtRqwCXczRaTVnKLxVEdak	Mr. Old President! I think we all agree that only a strong and united Europe can withstand the common threats we face and produce effective responses to common challenges. The EU is Sweden's most important partner, and Sweden must begin to take a more active role in shaping EU policies. For us in the Center Party, it is self-evident that the EU should focus on the areas that make the most difference. That is why we want to cooperate even more on cross-border challenges such as climate and environment, security and defence, migration, trade and organised crime. At the same time, we want the EU to be able to take a slightly smaller role in what is and should be national competence. Mr. Old President! We take very seriously what is now happening in Europe and the deteriorating security situation. It is not the EU that is responsible for the deterioration of the situation, nor is it any of our democratic neighbours in Eastern Europe. The blame lies entirely with Vladimir Putin and his fellow runners and minions in the regime that currently governs Russia. It is a strong and united Europe that can stand up to great powers who want to dictate rules, whether it is international trade or the policy of their free neighbours. Here the EU can do more and act faster and more resolutely. It is Sweden's responsibility to stand up with a clear and clear voice for the values that we think are important and for the cooperation that we want to see in Europe and the cooperation that we want Europe to be. We believe that the European Union must give strong support to Ukraine in this difficult situation and emphasise the unity with the United States, NATO and within the European Union. We note that some countries are sending defence equipment and others are selling the same to Ukraine. The EU should be able to make resources available so that Ukraine can strengthen itself where they see it necessary, as part of its self-determination. We strongly support the European security regime. Each country shall have the same value and independence, regardless of its size. Sweden should take a more active role in shaping what future defence and security cooperation we want to see in the EU, not least now that the issue will be high on the political agenda. This cooperation must be complementary to NATO, not an alternative. It is also essential for the EU to strengthen its common and transatlantic voice, together with the United Kingdom. We need more cooperation, Mr President-in-Office, not more protectionism. I would also like to mention a crisis that is closely linked to the critical security situation, namely the energy crisis. Several events have contributed to the increased costs. These are the high prices on the continent, which are totally dependent on imports. This is about the increase in the price of allowances, which is fundamentally positive. It is about the pandemic and the cold winter, but it is also about the actions of the Putin regime. When gas supplies are tightened, stocks decrease and prices rise. The obvious conclusion is that we must reduce Europe's dependence on Russian gas. We must not continue to depend on the Kremlin's energy weapons. As part of this, we in the Center Party believe that the construction of Nord Stream 2 must be stopped. The EU must also reduce its fossil dependence. This would lower electricity prices, strengthen resilience and reduce emissions. We must invest in energy efficiency, increase fossil-free production and increase interconnection between countries. For Sweden it is a profit for the economy, but above all it is a profit for the climate. It is a major responsibility for the EU to resolve not only the energy crisis but also the climate crisis. We see that, as politicians and political parties in Europe, we have a mission to show that there is a link between the message of science – that there is no alternative but to reduce emissions – and the solutions that we present. We have not been able to do this historically enough, but it is no less urgent every year. With a price of carbon dioxide, the incentives for society to switch are increasing. The main tool for achieving effective carbon pricing and also reducing emissions is the EU emissions trading scheme. We want to see this system extended to more sectors so that we have a ceiling on how much emissions can be made annually in the European Union. The fact that we get more of a common pricing can also be an advantage for Sweden, where we currently tax CO2 emissions at the very highest. But above all, this is important for climate action and for the success of the Paris Agreement. Mr. Old President! I will come back to agriculture and trade as well as to climate work later, but freedom, security, cooperation and sustainability should be the key words for the EU and for Sweden when we shoulder the Presidency.
i-QQ48imKjyPQzAZ6QcdFm7h	Mr. Old President! Now we must once again decide what Europe we should be. My Europe receives people who flee from war, solidarity and together. My Europe does not build walls, we help each other when the need is great. So said the then Prime Minister, Mr. Age President, in his speech on the manifestation of refugees in 2015. Since then, the EU's walls against the outside world have been built ever higher, with Sweden's good memory. People die trying to get to Europe, at the borders, in the Mediterranean and on the dangerous road to the Canary Islands. More than 2,700 were reported dead until December, and in addition there are reports of lost boats and found wrecks where the number of dead is unknown. While people die on their flight to Europe, the EU spends more and more resources on border guards and agreements with neighbouring countries to keep refugees away. While people die on their flight, the EU is discussing how to force other countries to accept them, and while people die on their flight, the EU countries are discussing new migration agreements without guaranteeing people the right to have their asylum grounds tested. The EU has outsourced border controls to Turkey and Libya. As a result, refugees are subjected to slave labour, rape and violence. It is time for Europe to find its way back to a human migration policy where people have the right to have their asylum reasons tested. One of the problems with the EU's refugee policy is the agreement with Turkey, which means that the EU's dependence legitimises Turkey's policy of repression. The situation of Kurds and other opponents in Turkey is unsustainable, and the EU's protests fall flat when dependence is high. Sweden must press ahead to stop all financial support for Turkey and freeze Turkey's application for EU membership. Mr. Old President! For two years now, we've been living in a pandemic. The pandemic has had major and negative consequences for Europe's economies. The EU and its Member States have taken large loans which reduce the scope for future reform. The gaps between rich and poor have increased. Cutbacks and economic austerity have weakened our resilience to crises. But for us to get out of the pandemic, the whole world needs to have access to vaccines. UN statistics show that as many have died because of the restrictions as from the disease itself. And most who have died have been children and young people in poorer parts of the world. The vaccine is expensive, and the rich countries, like the EU Member States, buy up more than is consumed. It is not enough for Sweden and the EU to provide financial support and provide leftover vaccines to poorer countries. Vaccines must be distributed more evenly and the patent abolished so that more vaccine can be produced. Mr. Old President! We need huge public investment to cope with climate change. We must invest in sustainable infrastructure, renewable energy and better housing. The Left Party wants to see investment in jobs, welfare and reduced emissions. Climate change must be fair, so that the rich who release the most are also the ones who pay the most. Although the European Union has tightened its climate targets, this is far from enough. We must reduce emissions by at least 70% in order to achieve the climate targets set in the climate agreement. 55% is certainly not enough. Taxonomy, which identifies which areas are green and sustainable, is a step on the way to reducing emissions. However, the proposal that fossil gas and nuclear power should also be included in taxonomy and be regarded as green is the wrong way to go. Nuclear power is expensive and makes the switch to one hundred percent renewable energy production difficult. The mining of uranium has a major impact on the environment, and the issue of the storage of hazardous waste has not been resolved. With nuclear energy as part of the green taxonomy, there is a clear risk that investments will be made in nuclear energy rather than in renewable and sustainable energy. The high electricity prices in Europe need to be addressed by more countries switching to renewable energy instead of being dependent on Russia. The future is neither fossil nor nuclear. It lies in real investments in renewables.
i-8CmTAWpafGWsFHFgcszEHf	Mr. Old President! I think it is good that we are having an EU political debate here in the Swedish Parliament. It is perhaps particularly important this year, an election year in which EU issues tend to shine with their absence in journalists' questions, in politicians' speeches and in debate articles. The EU is often treated rigidly by politicians as well as journalists unless an EU election approaches and is too often treated as a foreign policy when it is, in fact, primarily a domestic policy. Why is this so? Why do we still see the European issues as something, down there in Europe, when we are in fact in the European Union? According to SKR, Swedish Municipalities and Regions, approximately half of the agenda items on a council agenda are directly or indirectly affected by EU decisions. And here in Parliament, law is passed by law and is based on EU decisions. Mr. Old President! I do not think the Swedish people are uninterested. However, I believe that the handling of European issues must be different. We need to authorise Europe. This means that we cannot take Europe as a scapegoat for what Swedish politicians cannot do. It is absolutely essential that those who lead Sweden's EU work get involved early in processes, so early that they themselves are involved in setting the agenda. It goes without saying that Sweden should say no to bad proposals. But in order to be able to say yes to really good proposals, to policies that are good for Sweden and for the rest of Europe, we must have our own visions and objectives. Who is in government leading the EU's work plays a role. In times like these and in the shadow of war threats, it may be worth recalling, like a history lesson, the three most important fathers of the Union, all Christian Democrats, moreover: Germany's Konrad Adenauer, Italy's Alcide De Gasperi and France's Robert Schuman. It was their vision and their courageous stand that made Europe the most successful peace project in the world. All three knew their history, and they believed in their future. They stressed human dignity in contrast with Nazism and Communism which plagued and still plagued Europe. Mr. Old President! On the basis of the common values of the EU, free trade and free movement have emerged, resulting in prosperity. To know our history, let us remind ourselves of what followed World War II. The post-war period meant different fates and conditions for Europe's countries – the Iron Curtain was a security and geopolitical division – but also a division of wealth. Democracy, market economy and trade came to be characterised in the West and dictatorship, planned economy and oppression in the East. By the time of the fall of the Berlin Wall, Western Europe's prosperity had increased sharply and was three to four times greater than that of Eastern Europe. It was therefore not very long before a number of emerging democracies in Eastern Europe saw that the future was coming closer to the European Union. Through various cooperation and free trade agreements, and eventually full EU membership, the economy took off. The EU's internal market and the common trade union have generally and across Europe contributed to increased prosperity and are still strengthening our welfare. The challenge continues to be to defend what has created prosperity. The EU has a role in welfare. But it is a question of creating prosperity, Mr. President of the Age, not of controlling it. The social pillar became nothing more than a political goal for the Swedish labour market. Imagine, though, whether the European Summit in Gothenburg had been about increased competitiveness, dismantling barriers that are currently hampering the delivery of services across the Union and more trade agreements. What if we could have had the ambition to make Europe the centre of global world trade and become the world leader in electrification of roads and transport rather than increasing our dependence on Russian gas? Mr. Old President! Finally, as I said, it is the election year, and the parties that come into government when the voters have said theirs are those who are to sit at the negotiating table in the European Council. Then it matters what visions and what drive you have. Unfortunately, the government has had inaction as its hallmark. In the near future, we have ministers who have missed meetings crucial for Swedish forestry. We have had prime ministers who have not been able to stand up for nuclear power clearly, but have engaged in, to say the least, swinging rhetoric. It is simply a government that is late on the ball and all too often acts as a voice cattle instead of a spearhead. We must know our history and believe in our future.
i-KpufNKuuQ18tbSqfWufbkt	Mr. Old President! Last Christmas, I spent two weeks in Ukraine. It was indeed an existence in the shadow of the war. But what struck me was how present the EU flag is in Kiev. Outside of the Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it sways. The same applies to almost all Kiev Ministries. This is not a development that is forced from outside. It comes from the development of people who want to live a life of tolerance, democracy, freedom, market economy and openness, and where examples of the opposite are in the immediate vicinity. This shows the EU's great attractiveness. But it has occurred to me many times if it is not the case that countries that are outside the EU but who want to belong to the EU in many ways are more proud and more positive to the EU than the countries that are members and who seem to be able to afford to be so lukewarm in the relationship, because it is not about life or death. Mr. Old President! That does not mean that we should unqualifiedly say yes to everything that the European Union is advocating. But I and the Liberals believe that Sweden is better able to accept the opportunities offered by the EU. Let me give you one example: this year, Erasmus turns 30. Erasmus has given hundreds of thousands of students – including me – the opportunity to make an exchange semester at a university in another country, tie ties and create understanding. Without the EU, Erasmus would not exist. As often as the public debate has come to be about the European Union's clout and administrative superstructure, just as often we need to highlight the benefits and opportunities that exist – such as Erasmus and the opportunity to travel and settle around the European Union. When it comes to being open to the outside world and protecting trade, peace and mobility, the EU is successful, but we can do more and better. And, of course, the Liberals will refer to the euro in a speech on the European Union, Mr President of the Age. A few months ago the former ambassadors Sven-Olof-Olof Petersson and Mats Ringborg Ringborg an article on DN Debate with the title Do we really want to be in the company of Hungary and Poland, which have chosen to remain outside and are not willing to take any steps towards euro cooperation? The leaders of these countries are, of course, directly anti-European. Is this the company we're supposed to be in? Sweden needs to be a wholehearted partner in EU cooperation and part of the EU's core. Today, however, we risk losing influence by being outside the euro, the Banking Union and the European Public Prosecutor's Office. We are outside the central areas of cooperation. Mr. Old President! I started by talking about Ukraine, the Russian aggression and the threat to the European security regime, the illegitimate belarusian regime and so on. The EU needs more of a common defence policy and more of a clear foreign policy. We add aspects and perspectives that the UN, NATO and the US cannot provide – our geographical proximity commits us to being active. Today it is the Russian regime that poses the immediate threat, but the EU must take a much clearer position vis-à-vis the dictatorship's China. Now is the time for Europe to take real place. Mr. Old President! I would like the debate to go from the fact that the European Union is too much, that we need a Europe that is just right and that the European Union interferes too much to deal with why we need the European Union and how we should take advantage of the many opportunities that come with EU membership.
i-AgWWMH1XTb5ptW4VxRdtuz	Mr. Old President! As many people have said, we are in a more serious security situation than we have for a very long time in Europe. Russia is showing an increasingly aggressive behaviour, with troop movements to Ukraine's border and unreasonable demands for NATO not to expand. The EU has a very important role to play, on the one hand in the NATO-Russia dialogue and, on the other hand, in calling for sanctions against Russia, but also in supporting Ukraine, if necessary. It is important that Sweden is active in order for the EU to work for dialogue, for respect for the European security regime and for de-escalating the security situation, which is becoming more acute. This question can easily be about Swedish membership of NATO when the focus should be on how the situation between Ukraine and Russia can be best dealt with. In any case, it focuses on the fact that Europe is really needed to tackle cross-border challenges. The EU is needed for peace and security policy, for human rights and for respect for the principles of the rule of law – and not least to stem climate change, the destiny of our time. At Netflix, a documentary called Don 中 t Look Up is currently on display and metaphorically describes the world's management of climate change. In the film is a meteorite heading straight for the earth, symbolizing the climate threat. Scientists are trying to get people to understand the seriousness and politicians to act, because if we only act in time, we will be able to avoid the disaster and have a chance to neutralize the meteorite. But in the film, mankind does not succeed in working together and avoiding the disastrous scenario of the future, but the greed of big business and the self - centeredness of politicians win the battle against the clock. The Green Party is fighting in Sweden and in Europe not to end up there, but to take the great challenge of our generation very seriously and to do what we can for a more sustainable future where we do not risk the very existence of humanity. We are fighting for a solidarity-based and fair transition in which politics is in line with what science requires. We know that greater protection of nature and the sea is needed to save biodiversity, and we must make it easier to travel by train in Europe. Europe's energy policy must also be radically changed if we are not to fail future generations. That is why several things are disappointing in the Swedish debate. Firstly, Ebba Busch in this situation, in the midst of a burning climate crisis, goes out and demands a reduced tax on diesel. You wonder if it's a joke. Secondly, the Social Democratic Government is now taking a step back and wants to classify nuclear energy as a sustainable energy source during the negotiations on taxonomics. Sweden can do better than this. Democracy with its freedom of expression and organisation, freedom of the press and the rule of law must be defended. Never before have so many people been on the run. The vast majority of people are in poor neighbouring countries in the immediate vicinity of the war and have little opportunity to get to the EU. There are no legal ways for asylum seekers, but people are still being forced on life-threatening journeys to seek protection from war and persecution. Once the EU has been tested, it has proved incapable of taking joint responsibility for people on the run. Ports and borders have been closed to people in need. The Green Party is fighting for a more humane policy, for strengthening people's fundamental rights, for a legally secure asylum process and for safeguarding the right to asylum and freedom of movement. We want to see a world where all people can move but where no one is forced to escape. In the EU, too, there is no desire to deal with the reception of refugees in solidarity and to give people on the run legal redress and a good reception. It is a shame that the EU has not been able to stand up for human rights at a time when more and more people are being forced on these journeys. After all, Europe is needed precisely for issues that are cross-border and that no country can deal with or resolve for itself, but that we can deal with together if we cooperate. That is why the Green Party wants the EU to have a more progressive, sustainable policy that tackles the challenges of our time with open eyes and courage to change. Look up!
i-5LvespfX4VAwduov5KmYwa	Mr. Old President! In less than a year, Sweden will be chairing the EU Council of Ministers. It is an important commitment. It is important to move the Council's agenda forward as effectively as possible, but also to listen to all Member States in such a way that everyone can be heard. The spring of 2023 is the most intensive part of the Union's legislative period, with a long series of final negotiations between the Council and the European Parliament. There may be several major, complex issues, such as the climate package or the Asylum and Migration Pact. This will require great effort, but at the same time it gives us in Sweden a great opportunity to deliver the necessary leadership. That is why I am very pleased with the broad support that has been provided so far in the Riksdag for the overall direction of the preparatory work. My ambition is indeed to seek the widest possible agreement here on how the government will continue to work with the Presidency. As a country holding the Presidency, you should not fight for your own positions in the first place, even though there is of course also the opportunity to promote Swedish interests, but the work is very much about trying to reconcile positions in a way that leads to results. On one point, however, even as President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President, we cannot be neutral, and this concerns the basic ideas of the Union and our values – democracy and freedom, equality and justice, the equal value of all people and independent courts. This is the soul of the Union. We must protect and nurture it, especially now that the common ideas are being called into question in various places. As a social democrat, I can only imagine that, during our presidency, we from Sweden will also be firmly committed to those values.
i-KS1YpYMBXaoZKU83Fnz2gz	Mr. Old President! Taxonomy has been widely discussed this autumn and winter, not least because of the phenomenal inability of the Social Democrats to deliver a clear answer when it comes to an important question for Sweden's citizens: energy supply. Until just a few weeks ago, the Social Democrats were opposed to nuclear power. It refused to listen to the decision of the EU Board and highlighted it in Brussels. When the Green Party left the government, it came up with an emergency solution in order to get out of the position it has set itself; it is now saying that nuclear power is needed because it is sustainable in the long term but that we will not need it for a long time.
i-Fdf4asHK6hLSuymhZEo5EP	Mr. Old President! Thank you for the question. I don't really recognize the description. I myself have been on the EU Board– I think Jessika Roswall was at the same meeting – and clearly stated the importance of nuclear power at the moment for us to cope with the climate change that is absolutely necessary to move our environmental policy forward. Moreover, what this government has always said is that all fossil-free technologies that can contribute to climate change are needed, given that they meet strict safety and environmental requirements, and they should therefore be able to be included in taxonomics. This also applies to nuclear power. The government has therefore worked to ensure that it is included in taxonomics. The proposal now on the table includes nuclear power. I think that's good. I think Jessika Roswall thinks so, too. Why, then, should we have a discussion on this when, instead, we can join forces to save the climate?
i-TUFfLazCXC4jzemXt6L1rb	Mr. Old President! Thank you for your answer, Minister. But what the government says is not true. What the Moderates think everyone in here knows. Anyone who has followed the meetings of the EU Board knows what we think. But what the Social Democrats think is not quite as clear. It is possible to follow that they have turned. But it is clear that Sweden has for the last eight years adopted Germany's strategy, that is, that nuclear power should be closed down. Reactors after reactors have been shut down to be replaced by other energy sources that do not provide the robustness that we need. While the Social Democrats have a changed line in Sweden, we see that Swedish Social Democratic MEPs Heléne Fritzon and Erik Bergkvist stick to the old Social Democratic line from a few weeks ago. My question to the Government is again: do the Social Democrats even have a line on nuclear power?
i-5U8KhUu3Lx2h5Dxw1Yb7Zu	Mr. Old President! Yes, Sweden has a line. That is what the Swedish Government has said and which we have just communicated to the Commission in Brussels, in response to the proposal made just before New Year's Eve to include nuclear energy in taxonomy. I am also responding in the way I explained in my first line.
i-Wn3iWC5gMCGZe6M6iE9byu	Mr. Old President! The Commission first used covid and is now using the climate as a battering ram to increase the power and financial muscles of the EU machinery. First, with the support of the Swedish Government, we received a waste fund that has indebted future generations. Now we're fast on our way to new defeats. We have a new climate fund that the Swedish people will go back on and that opens up for the EU to conduct direct welfare policies in the Member States. The government complains, but you don't want to say no. There are proposals from the Commission for LULUCF, i.e. the removal of CO2, which concerns forests. It will increase by 310 megatons, which with the current distribution would risk reducing Swedish forest production by breathtaking 16 percent. But the government won't say no. My question until the Government is: How will Sweden have any use in the negotiations in the EU if you never dare say no?
i-Qt5ntJNo4i15qZg3SVFsZ	Mr. Old President! We have no difficulty saying no, Martin Kinnunen. I myself have been in Brussels to talk to several Commissioners about the grotesque proposal that we in Sweden should have such an enormous burden, that we should set up a carbon sink to deal with emissions from other countries across Europe. We say no to this. We don't want it that way. Above all, we do not want the kind of detailed regulation that those proposals entail. The Social Climate Fund, to which I understand Martin Kinnunen refers, is also something that we do not accept. Nor are we the only ones who think it's crazy. There are so much resources in the recovery plans for different countries that can take care of climate change. Nor have we accepted any welfare policy of the kind described by Martin Kinnunen.
i-9bmyLkfLWux27LKXJmgW8A	Mr. Old President! It often sounds good when Hans Dahlgren talks about what the Swedish government thinks. The problem is that what the government does is go down and complain, but when it comes to it, you don't say from. When it comes to the Social Climate Fund, it is clear that the government is sceptical and critical. But it is also clear that you do not want to get into the Swedish position that you reject the proposal, but that you want to be able to influence the details. But you don't dare say no. It's the same thing when it comes to carbon sinks. Now we want to try to change the distribution. But the basic problem is the grotesque number 310 megatons. We will not be able to transfer enough of the busy people to other countries, but with that figure we will see an impact on Swedish forestry. I'm convinced of that. Why don't we just say it? Why don't we say 310 is unreasonable?
i-UDUtg4T12JTS5RoimdeQoD	Mr. Old President! It is clear that we must reject the proposals that we do not like. So do we. What words we use can be discussed. But I do not think anyone in Brussels is surprised any longer that we disagree with the Commission on the carbon sink. It is clear that we need to look at the overall picture. The climate package must be managed in a way that brings forward the Union's climate ambitions, overall. We must be open to constructive negotiations in order to achieve the climate objectives that we have set. But in that, of course, we will protect and protect Swedish interests.
i-3mZNcu7AuC3hYxzxNeGedc	Mr. Old President! I, too, would like to dwell on taxonomy, but from a different perspective. I do not want to talk about nuclear energy, although I find it strange that it can be classified as sustainable in any case. My question to the Government concerns how the Government intends to reverse the bizarre proposal that fossil gas should be classified as sustainable while Swedish forest raw materials should be classified as unsustainable. I don't think we and the government have any fundamental differences of opinion. But it can be said that Sweden has so far failed. Sweden has, quite reasonably, pushed for Swedish forest raw materials to be seen as what it is: the key to building a sustainable Swedish economy. Unfortunately, we're losing right now. When I look at the proposals from the technical working groups to those parts of taxonomy that are still waiting to be presented, I am frankly afraid of the dark. There are proposals, which are not yet political but are official proposals, which run counter to the whole principle of how we conduct agriculture and forestry in this country.
i-5iMaa6vhzDHZJWZJ5QepvD	Mr. Old President! Magnus Ek asks how we do to make an impact on our view that, for example, our forest products really belong to the sustainable. The answer to the question is that we need to put more effort into showing the Commission and the other decision-makers – particularly the Commission, because this is a delegated act – what this is really about. We have expressed our views on this several times in Brussels. We have also said that the Commissioners themselves should come here and look at what Swedish forestry means to see with their own eyes and have their own experience that this is an activity that really has the sustainability mark that we both call for.
i-Jbivsr1Xu2yt5L1zCLma7T	Mr. Old President! The question is how to conduct these conversations. When the Commissioner in charge was here, Hans Dahlgren's colleague in the previous government took him to a nature reserve and not to a Swedish family forest farmer, for example, who, economically and ecologically, actually takes responsibility for sustainable forestry. We must not go on such rivets. Here in this House and in the EU Council, we have often discussed how we build coalitions with others who reasonably realise that it is up the walls wrong to classify fossil gas but not Swedish forest raw materials as sustainable. It's folding down to the fossil lobby. Unfortunately, that is exactly what the EU has done so far. This is a crisis situation, and not only for Swedish agriculture and forestry, but also for the Swedish economy and the Swedish green transition. I would like to hear more about how Hans Dahlgren intends to build alliances with those who realise that we can turn this around. This applies not least now that we are moving forward with new proposals that risk leading to a real bang for Swedish agriculture and forestry, but also for agriculture and forestry in other European countries. There's an opening here. How are we gonna deal with it?
i-WkZCvwqL82Q43oySZBjXek	Mr. Old President! We will, of course, try to use that opening. I'm totally in on it. The first thing we do, of course, is to talk to our friends in Finland, which we have done many times so far because we have common interests in this area. Together with a Finnish colleague, I have spoken to several Commissioners about this in the autumn. As I said, this is a delegated act and, as you know, a very strong opposition from a wide range of Member States is needed to stop it. We will work for it, because we also do not accept that natural gas should be classified as sustainable. The fact that it looks difficult should not prevent us from doing everything we can to accomplish the task.
i-BKyGzmfZuYJQYXsoBA9QHf	Mr. Old President! Recently, Sweden and Germany were identified as the strongest opponents of releasing official documents on EU work against tax evasion. In addition, the Social Democratic Government has previously voted against tax evasion being stopped, and now the work being done is being obscured. Sweden has signed a declaration for greater openness and transparency in the EU, and the Government then said that it is self-evident for the government to continue working for an open and transparent Europe, a Europe with dialogue and participation for all citizens of the Union. The Government said in its opening statement that the government is hard on transparency. Thus, Sweden works in public for an open and transparent EU, but behind closed doors the opposite is done. Why is Sweden opposed to tax evasion proposals? Why cover up the work that is still being done?
i-FudmhmyfpZWoCUS2orkgqo	Mr. Old President! I'm not sure I can give a satisfactory answer to Ilona Szatmari Waldau. I'm not very familiar with the issue that's being dealt with. But in principle, of course, we are in favour of transparency. We have been for many years, and we have broad support for this in Parliament. Furthermore, we want to devote more resources to combating tax evasion, as the new Minister for Finance has emphasised, also applies to European cooperation. However, I would ask you to come back to this specific issue.
i-ASV15Hjxyy9KHN4R5Xw3ga	Mr. Old President! I look forward to the Government returning to this issue. The Government mentioned that this is a priority for the new Prime Minister. I would like to remind you that the Prime Minister was then responsible for the department that chose to cover this up. She was also responsible for the Socialist Government trying to stop all proposals that have been about forcing large companies to publicly account for how much tax they pay in different countries. For me, it is incomprehensible that a Social Democratic Government should keep the work against tax evasion secret and also ask for certain data not to be recorded in order for Sweden's opinion not to be known, as DN reported a few months ago. If the EU Minister wants the EU to become more transparent and transparent, I wonder how he plans to get Sweden to really follow that line and not dark anything.
i-EWu7VxbCSBgu82o5qLdRj5	Mr. Old President! I am not familiar with exactly what has happened on the matter. I am sure that there are good reasons for the decision taken by the government. I am not at all sure that it is a matter of darkening, but, as I said, I would ask to return to Ilona Szatmari Waldau with a more detailed answer when I have got into the situation.
i-W5MbPr3jtxv714rQD4DsKz	Mr. Old President! It is the owners and not politicians who should decide who is or is not on company boards. Equality cannot be said to be the service of reducing women to their gender. At least this is a matter for the EU. Sweden has therefore done well to form part of a blocking minority in the Council of Ministers to stop the European Commission's proposal on the so-called Women on Boards Directive, which is a proposal to quota company boards through EU legislation. Since the EU Minister's party colleagues have taken over government in Germany, it may now appear that for the first time there is a majority in favour of the proposal. The position of the government has been suspended, not least when one sees how the Swedish Social Democrats act in the European Parliament. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for European Affairs to clarify the position of the government on this issue. Is the government for or against regulating the composition of Swedish company boards through an EU directive?
i-Y54ooTphLx4wooLD526wLt	Mr. Old President! As far as I can recall, the Social Democrats, as well as several other parties here in Parliament, have had a majority which was very sceptical about these proposals. I am not aware of any change in this position.
i-7to8t6huffm5thG342bYYR	Mr. Old President! Thank you for your answer. Let us be honest with the fact that the reason why the issue is still on the agenda – it was first presented in 2012 – is because the Commission is working to meet the social pillar point on new legislation in the field of gender equality. I believe that the government bears some blame for it. If the EU Minister asks the Swedish Social Democrats in the European Parliament their opinion, he will not get an echo of the position that has just been put forward. I thank the government for its answer to the question, but what is the position of the government party still seems to be somewhat unclear.
i-9FCnDizbiDPGh2hDztn6JY	Mr. Old President! If the issue should be raised again and if there is a new proposal on the table in the discussion with the Member States, we will of course address it in the usual way in the EU Council before it is time to go to the Council of Ministers.
i-3mC1fadwwpVoy7NDnqvYmV	Mr. Old President! I would like to begin by thanking Minister Dahlgren. Let me return to the security situation in Europe. I would like to call on the Socialist Government to be tougher against its colleagues in Germany – in this case its fellow party – in relation not least to Nord Stream 2, which further jeopardises the situation in which we find ourselves. The German veland around Nord Stream 2 and the lack of ability to say that this should not be put into practice creates enormous uncertainty. Now is the time to stand up to the Russian regime for Ukraine and not only Ukraine, but also for the Baltics, Poland and so on. Will the Government address this in its next discussion with its German colleague?
i-7iJ9Pz5HqFx6vGgpQvpXqW	Mr. Old President! I do not rule out that it will come up in future talks with German colleagues. Of course, the current situation in Europe is extremely serious. Not least for our own part, we have now looked very negatively at the kind of proposals that have come from the Russian Federation. Today, Germany plays an important role in the talks with France, Ukraine and Russia in Paris in the so-called Normandy format. I hope that this will lead to opportunities for continued dialogue rather than an escalation. Above all, we can avoid a military invasion of Ukraine in the way that many have feared. The means that the Union can then use and the means that different Member States can use are a later issue in which we do not want to be very detailed at the moment. That is not something that the Russian Federation should be able to count on and then calibrate its actions accordingly.
i-AcQ73fE9YQ2XhZgkNBaH8b	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Minister. I almost have to define it as a classic political response. It wasn't much content. I should also like to point out that the Normandy format is not a new format. It is a format that has existed for a long time. It has unfortunately not come very far either. That shows today's situation. This is precisely what German action creates, although it is active in a Normandy format and not very successful. At the same time, it is not clear to the Russian regime in relation to Nord Stream 2, which is crucial to how European energy supply can be affected. It is now appropriate to take such a position. I would like the Government to have given a clearer answer on how it intends to act towards its German colleagues.
i-Tz1ULYbXUwdkmXDf8wrxuo	Mr. Old President! I got the clear message from Maria Nilsson. If you listen to what is said in Germany on this issue, there is also a rather extensive internal debate. It has not yet been decided how to deal with the question of how finally from the German Government to address the state of Nord Stream 2 to come into operation.
i-7SVDywKmZc7HaXsp1fZ3gu	Mr. Old President! I would like to ask Minister Dahlgren a question about the view of nuclear power. Dahlgren may not see himself as very young. But considering that Homo sapiens has existed on this planet for at least 200,000 years, his age is a tiny part of human history. It was only 30 000 to 60 000 years ago that man made the great evolutionary leap. Before that, we were essentially like other animals. We could use simple tools, but we didn't refine a stick, didn't save a stone and didn't buzz it up into a spear. What do I want to say about this? Well, the world and man have changed tremendously in the last 100,000 years. We will make at least the same changes over the next 100 000 years. Yet the Social Democrats in the negotiations on taxonomy have agreed that nuclear power should be regarded as sustainable despite the fact that it will be dangerous for all living things and will be preserved for 100 000 years.
i-PTXWCWet46yvq4h1X7y8Fu	Mr. Old President! My answer is like a previous line shift. We have seen from the government that nuclear power is needed right now to cope with the climate change that is absolutely necessary to cope with the survival of this planet in more than 100 000 years' time. It's necessary. We can't shut down nuclear power now. It would create great difficulties for the climate change that we are in the midst of. Therefore, we have justified that we think it should be included in taxonomy, given that it meets strict safety and environmental requirements. That position remains valid.
i-5wgqFcVSjJS17ZxTrtikqh	Mr. Old President! There is no part of nuclear energy that is not drawn by sustainability problems. It is dangerous to decompose uranium, it is dangerous to use it as an energy source and it is dangerous to complete it for 100 000 years. It is also contrary to the Parliament's adopted targets of 100 per cent renewable electricity production by 2040. Then there are safety aspects linked to it. In 2021, 43 per cent of Sweden's imports of enriched uranium came from Russia. My last question to the Government is: How sustainable is it?
i-UjdifeWUYASQgnYBPma955	Mr. Old President! The sustainability of nuclear energy in the long term can only be seen in the future. Regardless of how old you are, I think it is necessary to realise that the climate change that is absolutely essential for our continued survival on this planet also requires action today on nuclear power. That is why we have taken the position we have taken.
i-LG4qiUpPBncxnzWxqZ8kAF	Mr. Old President! Today, European cooperation is crucial on many of the issues that voters consider to be the most important. Nevertheless, the S-led governments have chosen not to give priority to European cooperation. There are several examples of how inaction affects central Swedish interests. Sweden needs a government that takes EU cooperation seriously. Even when other Member States have applied for Sweden's support, for example when it comes to Swedish forests or the role of nuclear power in taxonomy, and thus offered drag assistance to Sweden, the government has chosen not to act. This is despite the fact that these were crucial issues for our country. The result of the government's inaction and unthinking priorities is not only betrayed allies around Europe, but it is also that more power has been given to Brussels over Swedish forestry, the Swedish labour market and energy supply. Sweden cannot afford to remain silent at the negotiating table now that the EU is undergoing such extensive reform work in a wide range of areas. Sweden needs to become more strategic in its work in the EU. Mr. Old President! The elections this autumn are not only an opportunity for voters to make sure that there are necessary changes in political governance in Sweden, but it also determines the direction of Sweden's EU policy. The EU can do better when Sweden is better. It is time for a new start for Swedish EU involvement.
i-MyWuZuQPjJF3EY1GPGTA6X	Mr. Old President! I understand Jessika Roswall wants a new government. But I still have to say that I'm a little bothered when I hear her opening words here. Should it be the case this autumn that the Moderates will form a government, it will be done together with the Swedish Democrats. It is a party that has a party leader who, on a direct question, chose Hungary's Viktor Orbán over Germany's Angela Merkel and who could not choose between President Macron and Vladimir Putin. It is a party that has representatives who claim that Sami are not Swedes. It is a party that is sceptical about the Paris Agreement and so on. What I would like to know is: How much are the Moderates now prepared to compromise in European politics when they are to form a common platform with a nationalist party like the Swedish Democrats?
i-ANvz5miWrzXwWLyNsFXWYz	Mr. Old President! Each party is allowed to answer for itself and its own policies, which the Council of State would well have answered if I had asked the opposite question. It is true, however, as the Government says, that I want a new government in place. The Moderates have an idea of what we want to prioritise in European work and how we want to shape it. The Social Democrats, for their part, have not had a plan for their commitment. At the beginning of the mandate, the last round or whatever round it will be, there was more focus on the UN and missed the EU. We have also seen – several others here have mentioned it today – that, for example, it has not been there when important issues for Sweden have needed to be discussed. That is the difference between a moderate-led government and a social democratic-led government. We will form a new bourgeois government that has a clear European agenda.
i-16cK2xHM4M4e25Gep4DdVq	Mr. Old President! It was not at all an answer to the question of what influence the Swedish democrats will have in the deal you are going to meet with them about what European policy should look like in a possible new government. Then I would really reject the fact that the present government would have no plan for its work and would not seek support from or assist other countries. We have worked quite hard with several important net contributors to get a proper and reasonable end to the budget negotiations. This produced results in the form of historically high discounts precisely for Sweden, which means that Sweden pays a smaller share of its gross national income to the Union than any other country. We have brought up the climate issue together with France and several others. Together with them, we have taken the lead in getting the decision on at least 55% reduction in emissions. We have also taken initiatives in the social field. It's an area that we like but that you don't like, but that we've taken the initiative, I don't think Jessika Roswall can deny.
i-Vrvxe4uN2sjgp3f6fFrFAJ	Mr. Old President! There are several of us in here who have been critical in several areas where the government has failed in important matters for Sweden. It's been the woods. It's been nuclear power. We may think differently in our parties, but you have ruled together with the Green Party and thus not got things done. You have also had the Left Party in your background, a party that is also not in favour of European cooperation in the same measure as the Moderates and our friends. Then it does not really matter how many times a Social Democratic minister here says that you have been active when we see that you have not been active. We have a record that you haven't been active. I say again: with a bourgeois government there would be a clear difference in how a Swedish government pursues a European policy.
i-2y79D1ECpZWVVTogSxt7yc	Mr. Old President! At least 80 million people are on the run. Most of them are internally displaced persons or have fled to a neighbouring country. Now, the Moderates in the EU are proposing that migrants be given help on the ground, which is what most refugees are already receiving. Working for democracy and poverty reduction, as well as supporting climate change, health care and long-term positive development are recognised principles of aid policy and lead to reduced migration. In the EU, however, Mr M. wishes to make assistance conditional on cooperation between beneficiary countries in the area of migration control. Conditionalisation of aid in this way is serious and violates the fundamental international principles that must govern aid. My question to Mrs Roswall is: is it more important for M to prevent migrants than to prevent migration?
i-CryK9vSz6u2nT485XoxWdU	Mr. Old President! In my introduction, I mentioned a few priorities, including in the area of migration. We in Europe have had uncontrollable and unpredictable immigration for a long time, and it is incredibly important to get the situation right that has been. It is we many parties here in the Swedish Parliament that agree on. That is why it is very important and good that the EU has taken steps forward and worked on a migration pact. My hope is that that work will be locked up at some point, because it has not succeeded so far. For the Moderates, it is important that this works in a legally secure way, that we have migration passengers who are legally secure and that we have an organised and structured control of our borders. The very rhetoric that Ilona Szatmari Waldau put to me at the end, I lost, so I have no exact answer to that now. However, this is an important and priority issue for the Moderates.
i-dWJYdPH3rN6amjXo4fofe	Mr. Old President! My supplementary question, then, is: does Mrs Roswall think that aid should be conditional on cooperation between the recipient countries in the area of migration control? Is it more important for M to prevent migrants than to prevent migration? In the EU, the Moderates have also released the demand to share responsibility for people arriving in the EU with the different countries. We know that there are several countries in the EU that have not received very many migrants or refugees, if any. Ensuring that EU countries cooperate and share responsibility for receiving refugees should be the main task, not to go to refugee-negative countries such as Hungary.
i-Tz2BMTSz9xeyo6UhS9Nxm1	Mr. Old President! Thank you for the questions. Yes, on the first question. We think it is reasonable that aid should be conditional. Yes, we think it is reasonable to abandon the lock that has been around having a compulsory redistribution. We would rather see an agreement that is sustainable and works. In the proposals that are now on the table there are things that the Moderates do not support, but we still see that it is a way forward. In politics, it is always a question of daring to make decisions and balance different parts with each other, and we think that the two proposals on the table are a reasonable way forward. However, the important thing is, Mr President-in-Office, that we will actually get the migration policy right in Europe.
i-KgF7JxsMpmNWhXYg3APLXe	Mr. Old President! It is now a few years since the Commission presented its proposal for a new migration pact to solve the EU's long-standing migration problems. Several of the pieces of legislation go from a Swedish democratic perspective in a positive direction, but the whole should still be described as negative. The basis remains the view of migration as a Union-wide burden to be shared through different forms of redistribution mechanisms, which can be defined as mandatory or not. The starting point from our perspective is that this has never worked. It was clear three decades ago when the first Dublin Convention came into being, it was clear when the previous Dublin Regulation came into force in 2003 and it continued to be clear when today's regulation came into place in 2013: it is not working. Redistribution, solidarity and other similar fashion words are not and will never be a solution to migration problems in Europe or in Sweden. We need stronger action and a focus on our borders, both within the Union and externally. For example, the Commission wants to stop asylum jumping, but the consequence of the Commission's proposal is that Sweden can become a responsible asylum country in more cases, for example in the case of family ties with people in Sweden, which is negative for countries that have had a large migration rate. The intention is said to be to stop asylum jumping, but in practice the result may be the same type of movement but that Swedish tax money goes to fly asylum seekers here instead of walking themselves. Our former Prime Minister Löfven once said: My Europe does not build walls. But in Europe today we see that walls are being built. Spain builds walls. Bulgaria builds walls. Serbia, Croatia, Hungary, Poland, Lithuania and Latvia are building walls. Italy builds metaphorical walls at sea; Greece literally builds them. Our Europe is building walls. Sweden must also be prepared to protect its borders and work towards an independent migration policy.
i-4iJzE3wUs5PK5E85V8cecv	Mr. Old President! It is always interesting to listen to Martin Kinnunen, because it becomes so clear when he takes the floor that the Swedish Democrats stand for a completely different view of what we can and want to do in European cooperation. This is also evident in the European Parliament, where, for example, SD does not want to criticise the repugnant Hungarian LGBT law or the Polish Government's restrictions on the right to abortion. However, I would like to continue with what I did not receive an answer from the moderate representative. If the Moderates are now to form a government with the support of the Swedish Democrats, this support will obviously come from a party that demands something quite different, both in terms of EU cooperation and on the important issues of valuation. The Swedish democrats are not going to back down. Then I wonder: What EU policy will the Swedish Democrats demand in order to give support to a moderate-led government?
i-Rj2B4v3t9ye5qLfv5UyruX	Mr. Old President! Hungary and Poland seem to be the most important issue for many Social Democrats today. I would like to say that the most important thing from a Swedish perspective is that we can stop all forms of redistributive aid to these countries. We are not going to finance motorways, subways and other things in either Hungary or Poland. This is the perspective of the Swedish Democrats. When it comes to EU cooperation, the Swedish Democrats' perspective is, of course, to promote Swedish interests in the negotiations on forests, energy policy and the long-term budget. There I see that the Swedish Democrats, together with, for example, the Moderates, have the opportunity to be more constructive than the Green Party has been when they have sabotaged the Social Democrats' opportunities to stand up for Swedish interests.
i-EaJ5tsAqMWigG2Ny8q64XL	Mr. Old President! Hungary and Poland are important because in these countries we see flagrant violations of what is fundamental to the whole of European cooperation – violations of our fundamental values. It is not surprising – it is even very good – that the Commission is now taking this very seriously by making sure that it starts to use the principle that we managed to achieve through the negotiations conducted under Stefan Lövven's leadership in 2020 to stem the flow of additional EU funds to countries that do not stand up for the rule of law. I am very proud of this and have no reason to apologize for it.
i-2RCdn62sx9SeMvR1LCCNWq	Mr. Old President! On the part of the Swedish Democrats, we welcome the agreement reached in connection with the long-term budget, where instead of a politicised process, we now have a process in which ECJ will try to assess what should be the rule of law in these countries and when the budgetary mechanism can be used. We welcome this. But again – the situation today is that we have widespread corruption and problems regarding the rule of law in a wide range of EU countries. If we are to reduce the risk of Swedish tax revenues ending up in these countries, we must cut back on the EU budget. We must put an end to the funding of these countries. We are not going to finance either motorways or subways in Poland or Hungary.
i-8FZkzwv6HhvuHHmAkToaE8	Mr. Old President! I mentioned in my speech that the fight against climate change and cooperation for security in Europe are two of the most important things for the Centre Party for Europe to deal with and agree on. There are also these two things I would like to dwell on now. Mr. Old President! The Swedish Democrats are the only Swedish party to have voted against the Paris Agreement. Representatives of the party have called warnings from climate scientists for doomsday prophecies. In this House, Martin Kinnunen has opposed almost every climate policy proposal that has been put forward. The justification is often that measures need to be taken elsewhere. My question to Martin Kinnunen is why the Swedish democrats are constantly hooking arms with friends from populist and nationalist parties in Europe to stop proposals that mean that more countries in the EU would take their responsibilities and lower their emissions and that we would actually ensure that climate work takes place throughout the Union.
i-9FoDstHUTfngGSUf3kHfkN	Mr. Old President! Climate and security policy are linked by energy policy. The EU's major problem today, which hampers the EU's security potential, is the lack of planned fossil-free energy. Here the Center Party is part of the problem – part of a political grouping in Europe that wants to shut down nuclear power and stifle new investments in nuclear power. That's running Russia's errands. With regard to the Paris Agreement, the Swedish Democrats have supported the objective of limiting the climate impact that directly reflects the Paris climate agreement. So we have no problem with this. We do, however, have problems with ineffective Swedish climate policy. We have problems with a weak EU that sees Sweden as an exotic carbon sink in the north, which will ensure that other countries can avoid taking their responsibilities. We are firmly opposed to that.
i-EwTL4ry4eYe4mNZ5BqkFEp	Mr. Old President! Martin Kinnunen knows very well that the Center Party is both in favour of increasing our energy production and has been open to talking about the terms of the planned power, most recently the other day when we proposed a new energy agreement. Rather, this is a way of moving the focus away from the question: why do Martin Kinnunen and the Swedish Democrats say one thing to their voters, namely that more countries must assume their responsibility for the climate, and then hook arms with their populist and nationalist friends in the European Parliament to ensure that more countries escape their responsibilities? This also has a parallel to security policy. I thought Martin Kinnunen said very well in his speech from the speaker's seat on the importance of safeguarding the European security regime and of standing up to authoritarian leaders and for democracy, freedom and self-determination. At the same time, we know that the Swedish Democrats have been pushing the line for a long time that one must respect the balance between the major powers. In fact, this was not removed from the party's programme until my party leader brought it up in this House. So, Martin Kinnunen, how will the Swedish people be able to trust you when you say this in the pulpit, while your party obviously has great problems dissociating itself from authoritarian leaders and standing up for freedom and democracy?
i-EaDBRjofxFq3V1m24FbFZv	Mr. Old President! At the same time as Magnus Ek's party talked about defence as a special interest and cut down the defence budgets, the Swedish Democrats have always put forward draft budgets with reinforcements since the parliamentary elections. We have had clear statements about the security situation and the threat from Russia. We've been consistent. Magnus Ek's party has not been consistent. They have irresponsibly cut down on the defence and called it a special interest in the government in which they were represented. The Swedish Democrats conduct an independent policy in the European Parliament, for example. One can see that several parties in this House vote more like the Polish Government Party than the Swedish Democrats do. We have always stood up for the security of Europe and the right of independent nations to decide for themselves.
i-WZcJ1qsZ24b5F4u7exbzMH	Mr. Old President! The European Parliament recently voted in favour of a resolution criticising the Polish Constitutional Court's ruling that it does not have to comply with EU law in certain areas. The SD voted against the resolution and has voted against it in several votes concerning Hungary and Poland. The Swedish Democrats also voted as the only Swedish party against the European Parliament's proposal to turn gender-based online violence into an EU crime. According to SD, the proposal is based on left-wing ideological speculation on the causes of online violence. Even Parliament's resolution condemning Hungary's LGBT law as an anti-Hbtq, discriminatory and undemocratic, the SD voted against as the only Swedish party. My question is: do the Swedish Democrats see EU law, the principles of the rule of law, LGBT people's rights and gender-based violence as uninteresting issues for the EU to work on?
i-AnMNXB6Z9aoxGcV8bbzHAM	Mr. Old President! That is the usual buzz in debates. It takes up some of the resolutions tabled in the European Parliament and says that we voted this or that or perhaps we abstained. These are resolutions tabled by left-wing or liberal forces that weave in a lot of different texts. Often it is writing that we cannot do. At the same time, we can clearly declare that we stand up for the rights of all people, regardless of their sexual orientation. It is probably easier if we have that discussion, that is, about what we think. Otherwise, we can sit here and go through comprehensive resolutions and see which letters in those that you put up for or not and what you think the EU should or should not do, because the EU should not do everything. The European Union is not going into the field of health care or education, for example, because then we can suddenly have a situation where it is Poland and Hungary that dictate what we are going to do in our country. We don't want to come there.
i-CKmVzZpxYRWoNzPCQbNUvB	Mr. Old President! It's pretty telling that Martin Kinnunen chooses to call our criticism of the Swedish Democrats voting no – no to condemnation of Hungary and Poland, no to stand up for LGBT people's rights and no to stand up for women's right to avoid violence – for the usual buzz. What we are doing is criticising the policy or rather the lack of policy pursued by the Swedish Democrats in the European Parliament. I can see that the EU was a Union of Business Rights for a long time. Now steps have also been taken towards people's rights, human rights, but the Swedish Democrats then choose to fit and not be part of the European Parliament's work on human rights. That is something that I very much regret. It's not a vortex.
i-XXSMLuJT567FhZ3RqDpaKm	Mr. Old President! In all of the parliamentary arenas and assemblies in which we are involved, we are working with Swedish democrats for human rights, of course. But we can say that the Swedish Democrats have no proposals to restrict the rights of LGBT people in any way. We stand up for them, and that's how it is. Then we can discuss different wordings in the resolution, what the EU should dictate and what the EU should not dictate. But at least we can be fair and honest about Sweden's democrats standing up for LGBTQ people's rights.
i-TTj38UbHKM9YcPT8Bi7kSY	Mr. Old President! I would like to ask the honourable Member what are really the visions of the Swedish Democrats for EU cooperation. We hear all the time that the EU is interfering too much, that the EU is too weak, that it dictates and so on. Or is it that you do not want to say openly that you really want to break up with Europe, and therefore you say no instead? Therefore, my question to Martin Kinnunen is: what are the visions, or is it that you want to break up with Europe instead?
i-ARSCihvPPhEWjX6cQxk9QF	Mr. Old President! What is the vision of the Swedish Democrats for the EU? asks Maria Nilsson. I think it is reflected quite clearly in a Swedish election movement. The parties understand what the voters care about. The voters in Sweden do not want to leave the European Union, but if you ask the voters if they think that we in Sweden should have less say about ourselves here in Parliament, a huge majority will answer: No, we certainly do not think so. We do not want to give more power to Brussels. If you ask the voters if they want more power back, most will also answer the same thing. This is probably the message from the Swedish Democrats too. EU cooperation is particularly needed in the area of trade, and it is needed in the area of law enforcement. Unfortunately, however, the trend is negative. The EU interferes in too much that affects people's everyday lives. Decisions that should be taken here are taken in Brussels.
i-8pumNYdbN2yaZuUHhKGs9m	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Martin Kinnunen, for that opinion analysis! I think I need to clarify. Martin Kinnunen therefore believes that the EU is interfering too much, and what the EU is going to do is about law enforcement. My guess is that it also wants the EU to deal with refugee flows. The question then is how Martin Kinnunen sees the EU's potential. How does Martin Kinnunen view Erasmus, for example? Shall we remove it? What concrete priorities do the Swedish Democrats want to see during the Swedish Presidency?
i-LDEVrG4c6miwNNVDNvy9yf	Mr. Old President! You have to be able to hold several balls in the air. For the Liberals it is simple, because they always want the EU to have more to say about. The Swedish Democrats do not think so. When you presented different visions for the future there were three different options that were presented, I think. There was, of course, an option with a more slimmed Europe, a narrower Europe that focuses on trade and security issues, for example. That is a positive vision for us. We would like such a Europe. But it must be clear that there is a lot that Europe should not do. The EU should not interfere in our forestry policy, for example. But I understand that it seems strange from the point of view of the Liberals, who always want to give more power and more money to the bureaucrats in Brussels. From the SD's side, we are happy to see EU cooperation, but more power for the Riksdag.
i-L7VnkSfqn6MYNtT6ZVzvFT	Mr. Old President! I also have a question concerning both the human rights theme and the power theme and what the EU should decide on. In March 2021, the European Parliament voted to declare the EU a free zone for LGBTI people. The resolution states that it has been two years since the first Polish resolution against what is called the LGBTi ideology was introduced. The Swedish Democrats chose to abstain in the final vote on that resolution.
i-NAPip3PFSq9fJHnLpWygkw	Mr. Old President! The EU should have the task of protecting the rights of all citizens. That should be the starting point. If then parties in the European Parliament write resolutions that contain only good things or maybe some good things and some bad things that we refrain from supporting is, of course, a completely different discussion that will be very difficult to conduct. Nor have we dealt with these resolutions here in the Swedish Parliament, so I do not of course have detailed knowledge of them. In the Swedish Parliament we are extremely clear that we stand up for LGBT people's rights, but that does not mean that we will vote for every liberal resolution in the European Parliament that mentions that combination of letters, because that is not how it works.
i-SrGF377NGSxoc2UXA59CSx	Mr. Old President! I have another question that concerns the European Union's resources and also that of rights. The EU is supposed to be a place where LGBTI people can live freely and without oppression. No one should be discriminated against, threatened, abused or killed because of who you are. What is going on in, for example, Hungary and Poland is clearly contrary to what we have agreed in the EU Treaties, namely that fundamental rights and freedoms should apply to all our citizens. The Green Party and the Green Group have been driving the issue of halting payments from the EU budget to those regions that have adopted so-called anti-hbtqi resolutions. We have had some success with that, but I would like to ask Martin Kinnunen if we can get support from the Swedish Democrats. Do they back us up in our ambition to stop the payments to the LGBTQ hostile regions?
i-GTFHvYS7dsTVsLYqgdu8QL	Mr. Old President! On behalf of the Swedish Democrats, we are putting forward all the proposals that stop all payments to Poland. We do not think they need subsidies, as do the other countries of the European Union. To look at what has created threats to minorities in Sweden, such as homosexuals and Jews, mass immigration has probably been a much greater problem than Poland and Hungary, Poland and Hungary. Just look at Malmö and the warnings that Israel has sent out, what the Israeli Embassy says and so on. A threat to minorities in Sweden has been created through an expansive mass immigration policy, which the Green Party stands up for. It is a much greater problem for minorities in Sweden than Poland and Hungary, Poland and Hungary are.
i-FB949Te6zG19471BxrecMs	Mr. Old President! It was exciting to hear in the previous shift that even Poland's LGBTQ policy is now the immigrants' fault. I shall now go back to taxonomy, which I have been talking about earlier in this debate. There are several proposals that run counter to a green Europe. The classification of fossil gas as sustainable is all up the walls, and it makes it difficult for us to reach the climate targets. We need new energy for Europe, energy that is climate-smart, fossil-free and green. It does not hold that the Commission gives green light and subsidies to fossil gas, while at the same time considering energy and raw material from Swedish forests to be barely sustainable. As I said, the EU is in total decline for the gas lobby and the fossil lobby. We can't have that. The whole process has been followed by climate-friendly proposals, and the decision-making process has unfortunately taken place behind closed doors by the European Commission. Now we need to act to try to bring about change. Nor can we afford to believe that the fight ends with the proposals that are currently on the table. Taxonomin should be supplemented and expanded, for example with a focus on biodiversity and social sustainability. The proposals presented by the technical working groups are, if possible, even more harmful to Swedish agriculture, Swedish forestry and our green conversion. I can say, as a Swedish farmer, that if the Commission takes even some of those proposals, for example, that it should not allow animals to be fed on watercourses or that it should not be allowed to harvest forests older than 60 years, the risk is that I and several people with me may sell the farms that we manage. Here Sweden must in time sue in the stream. I also want to get into agriculture. We are also dependent on imported goods for our food supply. This applies not least to fossil fuels but also to other inputs such as protein crops and mineral fertilisers. It is a vulnerability that becomes clear when the prices of this have gone up high. We must try to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels and inputs and strengthen production and competitiveness. It is good for safety, for the climate and for Sweden.
i-VbkzpgZYwnm6aAU9WuSiWi	Madam President, I would like Last year it emerged that the German energy company RWE sues the Netherlands for EUR 1.4 billion for its decision to phase out its coal power. Previously, the company Aura Energy threatened with a billion-dollar lawsuit against Sweden because the Swedish parliament voted for a ban on uranium mining. These lawsuits are based on the investment clause of the International Energy Charter Treaty. According to a study by Investigate Europe, the Energy Charter Treaty protects fossil investments, such as coal power stations, oil pipelines and gas terminals, worth EUR 340 billion. Chinese Huawei sues the Swedish State for over SEK 5 billion with reference to the investment protection agreement between Sweden and China. The company has already lost in Swedish courts. Why should they be able to sue Sweden for an extra time in a tribunal without transparency? Why does the Center Party support companies being able to sue states in private tribunals?
i-UhPW1VCkMmJGipxVYLQi8S	Madam President, I would like The Center Party does this because it is an advantage if we have international law that also includes companies. It should not be a novelty for those who are socially involved and who are politically committed to having the right to pursue even stupid litigation. I shall not call individual proceedings stupid or individual companies stupid, but if I had been inclined to do what a Member of Parliament in this House would have done very well for the legal proceedings that were listed here. We can note that none of them have been right. I understand that you can have a worry. But I think the opposite is worse: that you are not able to pursue legal proceedings and to have your disputes settled in court. After all, this helps, above all over time, when we build up practices that end this type of unjustified mood, to build a predictability in the system that is beneficial to the world economy.
i-M5KwPfFVJczfK3LhidjgwY	Madam President, I would like One problem with these trade and investment protection agreements is that it is not decided in national courts but in special tribunals. Magnus Ek and the Center Party have talked a lot about the environment and what we can do to get a better climate and a better environment. Yet we know that the Energy Charter Treaty protects fossil investment, such as coal power stations, oil pipelines and gas terminals, worth EUR 340 billion. One might wonder how much of this continues to roll on just because the states are afraid of being sued. Does the climate not have to be more important in this case?
i-R4Ajy72cUp9gvGyByrT8eC	Madam President, I would like I fully agree with Ilona Waldau that we as politicians, as states and as governments should not be afraid of being sued at times. That's what you're gonna be. For example, we have gone to court in the European Union when it comes to hunting wolves. It was important for us to have a decision there. You shouldn't be afraid to get things up in court. It also gives clarity about how the country is located, and so far it has often fallen well out for Sweden. You must therefore dare to be a little bold, even if you sometimes end up in court. If we get to the bottom of this, I do not think that this is so much about the Left Party being against running legal proceedings as being against trade agreements. We in the Center Party have a completely different view of this. The Center Party is a liberal party which thinks it is good that we are acting and which sees that we have lifted hundreds of millions of people out of poverty in recent decades precisely because we have had increased trade and precisely because we have had a growing and more integrated global economy. This type of agreement is part of making this increase but also work predictablely. Then you also have the opportunity to draw each other to court. You shouldn't be afraid of that. That, like growth, is one of the preconditions and one of the good consequences of international trade.
i-HABssZnrHEbJ7F9qW2wYtY	Madam President, I would like Safety in Sweden and our surrounding world is challenged in many ways. Russia's aggression against Ukraine is serious. Also for Russian LGBT people, feminists, indigenous representatives, the environmental movement and leftist activists, their own regime is a daily security threat. Geopolitics, the armaments of the major powers and civilian threats need to be met with policies that promote detour, disarmament and peace. Within the EU, Hungary can no longer be regarded as a democracy, say several assessors. It is about control of the courts and the media, anti-Semitism and homophobia and legislative changes that make it difficult for the opposition. Corruption is considered widespread. Family and friends of the Prime Minister have enriched themselves. Hungary has repeatedly been criticised by the EU, the UN, the Council of Europe, the OSSE and a number of NGOs on the principles of the rule of law and democratic values, but also on the respect of human rights. Democracy is also in decline in Poland, which refuses to accept the ruling of the European Court of Justice and which has introduced LGBTQ-free zones and banned abortion. If Poland continues along this path, it is no longer considered democratic within one to two years. Respect for the principles of the rule of law and democracy should be a prerequisite for a Member State to receive support from the various EU funds. The EU must take human rights, equality and democracy seriously and not pay aid to countries that are failing. It's time to stop compromising. Human rights and democratic values must be given priority throughout the EU.
i-YTx9BhCw4jtBVQnKRLN55R	Madam President, I would like Europe is now in the most serious security policy crisis for a very long time. Russia places far-reaching demands on countries in Europe not to make their own safety policy choices. It is clear that Europe alone does not have the strength to stand up to Russia. Instead, Sweden and Europe can rely on NATO to do the job. Nevertheless, the Left Party wants us to suspend cooperation with NATO. The Left Party also does not want Sweden to contribute to the EU's fighting groups. I would therefore like to ask Ilona Szatmari Waldau whether the Left Party believes that Sweden and Europe would be safer in the face of Russian threats without the cooperation with NATO and the military capabilities available to the EU.
i-PFzYiUQnxX6PPMstFkeCF6	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jessika Roswall, for the question! I note that what is happening now is that Russia's actions are in danger of forcing Sweden into NATO, which means that Russia's actions are affecting Sweden to a very large extent. From the Left Party we see that the way forward is to promote detour, disarmament and peace in order to get away from the risk of a new cold war. We need to preserve our military freedom of alliance. We need to develop civil defence and emphasise international law and the need for disarmament. We see the UN as the most important global arena for peace processes and dialogue. We also see that it is sovereign states within the EU that are to cooperate on military or military operations. It is not the EU itself that should build up a military apparatus.
i-UgdLRkGtPp97ZEaSZZvirW	Madam President, I would like I take note of what the Left Party is saying, and I have been able to read it in a number of debate articles from various spokespersons in recent times and even in the past. However, this does not make me much safer, but rather more uncertain. Naivity seems to be complete in the face of history and our own security. Like everyone else here, I am following the media, and quite frankly, the UN is not visible in the crisis that we are in right now. Security is built on various elements, including diplomacy and military means. I would therefore like to ask Ilona Szatmari Waldau what kind of developments would be required in order for the Left Party even to think of a different line.
i-NXHWurE8pKvyoFxjb2iPkz	Madam President, I would like What the Left Party sees is that we need to go another way to reduce the threats in the world and in Europe. We believe that military freedom of alliance is important for security and relaxation. This has meant that we have been able to enjoy peace for over a hundred years, and one of our main strengths is that Sweden's defence and security policy is decided by ourselves. This does not mean that we cannot cooperate with, for example, the United Nations, but that means that we do not want to build our own military within the European Union. A major problem is also that the EU confuses military development and military efforts with security issues rather than distinguishing between these issues. For us, it is incredibly important that Europe retains its peace, and we do not believe that the arms race is the right way forward.
i-9VcQoMkfZuDr41WBWg6yBZ	Madam President, I would like As we have dealt with the security issues in a previous change of line and pushed them a little more specifically, I intend to indulge myself in talking about other long-term issues and coming back to the discussion on global trade policy and prosperity development. I believe that the European Union has an extremely important role to play here. We know that over the last twenty years we have lifted hundreds of millions of people out of poverty worldwide. This has not come so much thanks to active efforts or the aid that Sweden and the EU provide, but to the fact that economic freedom and economic exchange in the world have increased. More and more people who did not previously have these opportunities have been able to become part of a global economic system and take part in global economic growth. Unfortunately, this is threatened by the coronapndemine. My question to Ilona Szatmari Waldau is: How are we going to get back to open and free trade globally after the pandemic? After all, you in the Left Party are opposed to us extending free trade agreements and tearing down the trade walls.
i-D6u7BLX7C1p2YDx7qM6mJW	Madam President, I would like I think there is quite a misunderstanding about the Left Party's view of trade agreements. We have nothing against trade agreements. We have nothing against the EU engaging in trade and the fact that we in Sweden have easier access to sales for our products that we produce. We see Sweden as an industrial nation that needs to consolidate its role as such, just as we also need to have the opportunity to import goods. We are therefore in favour of trade agreements. On the other hand, we are critical of the free trade agreements that are based on companies being able to sue countries in tribunals, not in national courts. That is where our criticism of the EU's trade agreements lies, not of the trade agreements themselves. We are very positive about trade, and we also believe that it is a way out of the pandemic and the economic downturn that has been.
i-XXc4utu6sCPj3meiacYKbS	Madam President, I would like That is a good thing to hear, and I am actually saying that without irony! In Sweden, the Left Party is perhaps the most critical party against trade agreements and the systems for promoting international trade, but it may be one of the most trade-friendly left-wing parties in the European Union. We should still be happy about that. Nevertheless, I think it is important to drill precisely in that, because, as we talked about before, this type of mechanism is also about building the predictability that in turn enables trade agreements and exchanges. There must also be the possibility of resolving disputes against states. We are also a player in the international trading system. If you say no to this, you are not only missing the trade that creates prosperity and that we really need now that we have the challenge of ensuring that hundreds of millions of people in the world do not slip back into absolute poverty, but also the opportunity for us to make demands on those with whom we enter into agreements, for example in terms of human rights and climate commitments. Are we really going to deny ourselves that chance?
i-X5MTCCez6rRb6EpPooWEek	Madam President, I would like I guess I'll have to thank Magnus Ek for thinking it was good! Nevertheless, I would like to add that free trade agreements offer so much negative, for example, when it comes to being able to sue countries in a tribunal. I mentioned earlier that we can see that there is a lot of environmentally harmful activities that can continue to prevent companies from suing countries in tribunals. For example, Sweden has been sued when we ended uranium mining, and the Netherlands is sued for closing its coal mines. There are many disadvantages to these free trade agreements. We can also see that they rarely benefit indigenous peoples and poor countries. There are no human rights requirements in trade agreements. There is much to do to develop the EU's trade agreements.
i-37y3HEYezesP9ApGoChBKd	Madam President, I would like If the EU is to be able to act together in a time of least concern, reforms are needed. Many aspects of foreign affairs today require unanimity among Member States, limiting the EU's ability to act. There is a proposal from the European Commission to reduce the possibility for individual countries to veto, inter alia, the issue of human rights. The Christian Democrats want Sweden to act for such a proposal to be implemented. The Russian aggression against Ukraine and the demand for a Russian sphere of influence are not only a threat to the freedom of the Ukrainian people, but also a threat to the European security order and the credibility of our security policy capabilities. It is therefore difficult to understand that there is no major discussion about the so-called strategic autonomy of the United States, which France in particular is pushing for to achieve. Is it really strategic autonomy that is at the core right now? Is it not a strong Union with a common defence and security policy worthy of the name and which rather has a strategic capacity, based on strategic cooperation, which complements NATO and to some extent relieves the United States? We Christian Democrats want to see precisely this and also a Europe that does not turn away from our British friends either. British participation in European security will continue to be central in the future. It is an insight that the government should try to reach both Brussels and Paris. We are at a time of increased instability in Europe, not only in the east but also in the Balkans. We are seeing growing nationalistic currents. There are countries such as Russia and China which have no objection whatsoever to the people feeling frustrated and turning their backs on the EU. On the contrary, it is important that we bring the countries of the Western Balkans closer together. The place we don't take will be taken by someone else. There's never a vacuum.
i-6GqkaZdWFE3p1L86eDYc81	Madam President, I would like Let me first confirm that the Swedish Government, both in Brussels and in Paris, has indeed been clear about our view of strategic autonomy. In this Union, we need to demonstrate openness to the outside world, not only openness within our internal market but also openness in contacts with other countries in the area of trade, security policy and transatlantic issues. I have a question in a very different area for Sofia Damm, namely the fight against crime. That is one of the top priorities of this government, and I hear that the Christian Democrats often talk about this issue. When these issues are to be discussed at European level, I understand that the attitude has been different. Last autumn, there was a report on the criminalisation of gender-based violence discussed in the European Parliament. Stopping men's violence against women is an incredibly prioritised task, but in this context two Swedish parties voted against, namely the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats. Is this an expression of what I have talked about in several previous lines, namely an adaptation to a situation where a bourgeois government with the Christian Democrats is forced to take the support of the Swedish Democrats?
i-MxpD6hrVw12HG2WNTFW8DN	Madam President, I would like I thank you for the clarification on the issue of strategic autonomy, although I do not think the government was loud enough on this issue. Then it was to be expected that we would try to find something about how we have voted in the European Parliament. However, I did not think it would come from Mr Dahlgren himself, who is very well versed in how to reason at European level in the European Parliament. It is true that there was a proposal for the EU Treaty to include the issue of abortion in the issue of gender-based violence. This would mean that the EU would in theory have the opportunity to legislate and set standards on abortion legislation. In fact, I believe that Mr Dahlgren's party The Social Democrats and the Christian Democrats agree that this is not an issue to be decided at EU level. I understand that this is the only reason why the Christian Democrats voted in this way, and I think it feels like a sound justification.
i-7GXueaeufJbhJtE5E6ocRK	Madam President, I would like What I am looking to hear from Sofia Damm is how the Christian Democrats view the question of what influence the Swedish Democrats will have in a government where the Christian Democrats rule together with the Moderates. What are the concessions to the Swedish democrats when it comes to EU policy? You cannot believe that it is an area that can be isolated, to try to agree on policies in all other areas but to have a kind of protected zone for European policy. At least I haven't heard of that so far. My question is still relevant.
i-ACxS4iAoNiWy9SPMJsRL5k	Madam President, I would like I did not understand that it was precisely the specific question that Hans Dahlgren asked. I think Hans Dahlgren listened to my previous speech – he seemed to listen closely – where I said it's about Sweden getting into processes early, having a vision and an agenda and not being so reactive. I am sure that a bourgeois government will stand up for it and that we will bring parties along on that line.
i-9utVCEZWgNLfbfK2aVC3wC	Madam President, I would like I shall continue with that statement by the Government, namely that the Christian Democrats voted against the proposal in the report. It is a report that clarifies how gender-based violence is linked to the work of women's rights and increased gender equality. The aim is to criminalise gender-based violence. The report also stresses the importance of investing in women's shelters, training and upgrading of skills in the judiciary, as well as in meeting sexual and reproductive rights, such as the right to abortion, and in establishing that LGBTQ people are also exposed to gender-based violence. The KD often stresses that it supports the right to free abortion, yet we see time and again that the KD does not do so when matters come up in the European Parliament. When will the KD stand up for free abortion seriously?
i-GBGstPT55cs2NCFtR1uHUS	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. I understand that the Left Party is trying to push for abortion, but I would like to assure the honourable Member that there is nothing to get here. The KD has been clear in both the European Parliament and the Parliament that the EU should promote sexual and reproductive rights. The Union must, not least in its external relations, create opportunities for women in this respect – and we have stood up for that. Whether abortion as a legislative issue should be on the EU's table is a completely different matter. I'm usually impressed by Ilona Szatmari Waldaus's thorough research. Sometimes I think, "Attans!" I should have looked into this before the debate. In this case, however, I have to say that the honourable Member is somewhat disappointed. The Christian Democrats have not voted 'no' on this issue, but we abstained with an explanation of vote precisely because the proposal contained many good things, but we cannot risk this becoming an issue decided at European level. I thought we agreed on that.
i-CyEmGKvcpwsBbu4wFRrDGh	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats did not vote in favour; I am aware of that. Sometimes it gets wrong when you talk freely. What we know is that every third woman in Europe has been subjected to physical or sexual violence. Every week, an average of 50 women die as a result of gender-based violence. However, the right to abortion as part of the issue of sexual and reproductive health was something the Christian Democrats could not support, and so they chose not to support the report. It also shows that conservative forces in the form of opponents of abortion in their own group outweigh the work against violence against women. The group called for the removal of all references to sexual and reproductive health and the right to abortion. In Europe 2021, completely removing references to sexual and reproductive health in the fight against gender-based violence is impossible. We knew that the issue of the right to free abortion is beneath the surface, but what does the KD have against sexual and reproductive health?
i-Hv6Ln2oNxAWRdahtJAqPbf	Madam President, I would like No, we don't mind. I stressed in my last speech that we are, of course, up for it, including in reports. That is absolutely the case. I understand what the honourable Member wants to do – that it would be the case that we give in to conservative forces. We don't. However, we cannot vote blindly in favour of everything simply because it is a sensitive issue and because otherwise I would have to accept questions about it in Parliament. We must look at the real impact of resolutions and reports. We took the view that this could raise the issue at European level as a legislative matter, and neither the Left Party nor the Christian Democrats want that. I'm convinced of that.
i-Mqz1bxuuBR56WfKDepD3Mo	Madam President, I would like As we mentioned earlier in the debate, more people than ever are fleeing war and persecution. The vast majority are in the immediate vicinity of the war, in large refugee camps where they have very little opportunity for a good life and cannot be guaranteed their rights. There are also no legal ways to go to Europe to seek asylum. That's why people are forced to travel dangerously. Every year there are many people who lose their lives or who can get here but in the meantime endure terrible treatment. This applies, in particular, to women. Nevertheless, I have noted that in the European Parliament, the Christian Democrats, together with the M and SD, have voted against a resolution on search and rescue operations in the Mediterranean. I would therefore like to ask Sofia Damm why the Christian Democrats want to make it more difficult to save people's lives on the Mediterranean even though there are no other options for them.
i-RkG8C6FZoH4guT9Efth5iy	Madam President, I would like I thank Maria Ferm for a question on an urgent subject that is also close to my heart – people on the run. I myself have lived in Jordan and seen what it does for the host society when the outside world does not care enough to strengthen and provide the capacity needed to help its neighbours. With regard to this specific resolution, I am sorry that I do not know exactly what it concerns. It could be just as with the resolution it was asked about earlier – that there were things in it that we simply could not support, something embedded that was not about saving lives in the Mediterranean. In the end, we do not want people to end up in this situation at all. You should not have to end up in the hands of unscrupulous smugglers and expose yourself to a deadly journey, but the stakes must come earlier. I assume that in other reports and resolutions we have made this clear and voted in favour.
i-QtrVyjvodHrLxMS8SWtbxA	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats have voted against this resolution on the one hand and described it in a debate article on the other, so it seems to me to be a well thought-out decision that we do not want to contribute to or want to make this type of rescue effort more difficult in the Mediterranean. There are arguments in the debate that they would somehow benefit smugglers of refugees or the like. I am really worried about it, because as long as there are no alternatives, people will be forced out on this kind of deadly journey. As Sofia Damm says, part of the solution is to counter the root causes of involuntary migration and ensure that there is humanitarian aid. However, going to civil society organisations or rescue organisations that try to prevent more people from drowning in the Mediterranean from fleeing to Europe is quite the wrong way to go.
i-VyHRFSuWjXh2fYwYHorykQ	Madam President, I would like I cannot recall that very debate. I assume it was quite a long time ago because I can't figure it out. However, I assume that it also contained a number of other suggestions on how the situation could be resolved. I'm almost 100% convinced of that. But I'll get you the answer, Maria Ferm.
i-Xim8odTgve3kYnbbyQbrkV	Madam President, I would like I would like to use my two minutes to flesh out some of the priorities that the Liberals want to put before the Swedish Presidency in 2023. We have dealt with the principles of the rule of law. One of our proposals is that we want to take the initiative for a special European summit focusing on rights, democracy and the rule of law. We also want to gather energy for the climate with a focus on phasing out fossil subsidies, new fossil-free energy, carbon capture and rapid electrification of, among other things, the vehicle fleet. The climate is the greatest global threat to people's freedom of our time, and in meeting this threat, deepening EU cooperation is crucial. Let us take advantage of the Swedish Presidency in moving forward positions there! We want to develop trade with a focus on free trade with South-East Asia. We want to pressure China and Russia to respect international law, human rights and regulations for international trade. We want to settle a system in which all Member States share responsibility for asylum seekers seeking protection in the EU. This has been on the agenda for a very long time. We want to go further there and actually get to the finish line. We still haven't. We also want to look at how we can have education and research collaborations with the UK even after Brexit. These are concrete things that we are proposing. The problems are great, but the answer is more Europe and not less Europe.
i-BorMCPeqsx1jPTHhGiETye	Madam President, I would like In fact, to the Liberals, I have only one brief question. When the European Parliament recently voted on the new President, the EPP and the Socialist and Liberal Groups decided to appoint a new President who is anti-abortionist. This brings me to the issue of women's rights and free abortion, which means nothing when a horse trade comes to an end. What signals does this send to the millions of women in Europe and globally who are fighting for their fundamental rights?
i-WHNtDTfvuBCkwoVAg3Mipo	Madam President, I would like In fact, I am surprised that, as a Liberal, I shall have to stand here in the speaker's chair and defend the position of Liberals in terms of free abortion rights in Sweden and at European level. We are one of the parties that fought the longest and hardest for women's rights, that is to say also reproductive rights, on all levels on which we have acted. I have no further comments on that question.
i-tz1qT2qEHavESte9u3ahN	Madam President, I would like The Liberals and the Left Party have been on the same side in the fight for women's rights and free abortion and against violence against women. It is by no means L's work on women's rights that I want to review or even question. We know that the Liberals have been a leading party among the bourgeois parties in terms of women's rights. My simple question was simply what kind of signal it sends when choosing a President who opposes abortion.
i-PaQPQaZy9zY5TPuxWCEWQn	Madam President, I would like I think it sends a much clearer signal if, in our everyday work in the Swedish Parliament and at EU level, we are actively working to secure women's rights to free abortions in those countries in the EU that still, unfortunately, do not allow free abortion – Malta is such an example – and continue to work to ensure that women's sexual and reproductive rights are an active part of the EU's aid work as these rights are an active part of the Swedish aid work. I believe that the systematic work that we have done, which we continue to carry out and which we will carry out, is the work that we should focus on. I honestly do not know what Ilona Szatmari Waldau is after with her question.
i-EM29bnC4UpFnRHhWrapqCb	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Maria Nilsson for her important contributions to the Presidency. This is, as I said in my introduction, a question to which I intend to return. I thought it was interesting to hear Maria Nilsson and the clearly pro-European line that the Liberals have expressed often and for a long time. Particularly appreciated is the party's commitment to social issues. It has often been seen, as many other social liberals have done, that there is a need to broaden cooperation within the EU in areas where this benefits all citizens of Europe. However, I cannot let go – I have raised it in previous lines – what it means for the government issue that the Liberals now want to seek cooperation with parties that become dependent on the Swedish Democrats. How can the Liberals think that one can hear for one's own, EU-positive policy in such a company?
i-NwN43KhawxEEHcuf3uvUv4	Madam President and the Government. We cannot enter into cooperation and say that we do not dare. We're going in with our politics. We are proud to be Parliament's most pro-European party. We note that not all parties in Parliament are as pro-European as we are, and we regret that. We would have liked more parties to have taken our position. When we have had our internal discussions, which have not been so internal, it has been very clear that European cooperation, internationalism, aid and gender equality are issues where we in the Liberals will not mess up our position in a possible liberal and bourgeois government.
i-234S2NuLXbWKXfTRvYpinS	Madam President, I would like I'm still a little wondering. In the change of line between Maria Nilsson and Martin Kinnunen that we heard just now, it certainly did not make it possible for these two to be able to make common cause in European policy. As I said earlier, it is not possible to make exceptions for such an important area as European policy and to think that you can run two different lines there. My question is: how can the Liberals cope with such a contradiction?
i-Aep7r7QACA7FH8tNfqnZQZ	Madam President and the Government. Our ambition is to form a liberal and bourgeois government. I have also made it clear that there are issues that we in the Liberals believe are so important that we will not shake our positions. Our party leader has said that she is happy to sit down at a negotiating table but that she is also prepared to rise at any time from such a negotiating table. I'm safe in the values of my party. I am confident in my party's approach to both the European Union and gender equality and human rights. I know where we stand. I know where our boundaries are.
i-PCZ82EsJUFz2d6nRo3m4ih	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank all Members for this debate. It is a very important time in which we have this debate. It is not just about the small detail that it is an election year and how important it is that European issues are still high on the agenda, but it is also about the fact that at the moment there is a very sharp security policy situation in Europe. The European Union plays an important role there, and it is reminded of why the European Union was formed once upon a time – for peace and because, by being able to cooperate, trade with each other and talk, we also contribute to a more peaceful world. It is somewhere this – how the EU can contribute to those cross-border issues, where the EU has a very important role to play – that has been the focus of the debate. It concerns peace and security policy and climate change, on which I have tried to put as much emphasis as I could. Here the EU has a particularly important role to play in the crucial time we have to stop the climate crisis. This also applies, of course, to respect for human rights and the principles of the rule of law. I would like to thank everyone for the debate.
i-NzpieCStSgZU4aAYNb85XE	Madam President, I would like The EU has concluded several fisheries agreements with countries around the world. The basis of these fisheries agreements is that fishing boats from European countries should be able to fish far off their own coast. The agreements with Seychelles, Senegal, Cape Verde, Morocco – including the occupied Western Sahara – and Mauritius are some of the agreements concluded or extended during this term of office. When the agreements have been in the EU Council, the Left Party has been the only party to vote against them. We have advocated that the agreements focus instead on sustainable and locally based fishing. Since the Green Party has never opposed these fisheries agreements, I have to ask whether the Green Party believes it is sustainable for EU fishing vessels to go around the world to fish.
i-Uf4pXyza37TZ5PHunfL32u	Madam President, I would like As the honourable Member is no doubt aware, fisheries policy and a sustainable maritime policy are something that is very important to the Green Party at all. I do not know why this was the result of the votes in the European Council, but it is probably that we have been in the government. I know that we have worked very intensively in the European Parliament on an improved fisheries policy. We have also worked intensively on the issue of Western Sahara, which has been involved and which is very closely linked to fisheries agreements. Otherwise, I will have to come back to that. It's nothing I've been through.
i-6gJJNNgwK75p1kEotUHjfx	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. However, I never got an answer to the question itself, which was whether the Green Party believes it is sustainable for EU fishing vessels to go around the world to fish. The Green Party has agreed to this in the fisheries agreements that have existed. It may have been because the Green Party has been in the government and has therefore never wanted to go against its government, but the main issue is whether the Green Party believes that European fishing fleets should be able to fish outside Western Sahara or Mauritius, Cape Verde, Seychelles, Senegal and so on. There are, of course, an incredible number of fisheries agreements; the agreements that I have listed are a selection of the agreements that have been concluded during this term of office.
i-UXUY53pvBviYpm3QoruF9g	Madam President, I would like I'm sorry Ilona Szatmari Waldau did not answer. I think it was because I thought the answer to the question was obvious because the Green Party has for so long been fighting for a more sustainable fisheries policy and improved fisheries agreements, both in the European Parliament and in Sweden. The answer to the question is, of course, no. We shall have a sustainable fisheries policy. We must have better fisheries agreements than today, and we must take care of our common resources and our common seas. This is a crucial issue. The debate on EU policy was closed.
i-HjTdpWNfi5MzQFaa1ezpN1	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by asking for the approval of reservation number 1. In the winter of 2020, the government proposed a new law on a consultation regime on matters concerning the Sami people. It meant that the government, state administrative authorities, regions and municipalities should be obliged to consult the Sami people before decisions are made on matters that may have particular significance for the Sami people. The purpose of the proposal was to promote the influence of the Sami people over its affairs, which the Moderates fundamentally welcome and support. At the same time, we saw several challenges and difficulties with the current proposal. We therefore meant that Parliament should reject it. The government subsequently chose to withdraw the bill, as it became clear that it lacked support in the Riksdag. The government has now left a new bill, and that is why we are having this debate today. The bill contains a proposal for a consultation order on issues concerning the Sami people. Madam President, I would like The main difference between these two proposals is that the consultation order of this proposal is proposed to be introduced in two stages. The obligation to consult shall initially include the Government and State administrative authorities. After two years, it will also apply to regions and municipalities. We Moderates see a value in giving regions and municipalities extra time to prepare, but at the same time we believe that the challenges and difficulties that existed in the original proposal remain. These are not affected by the fact that the consultation arrangements are carried out in two stages. Several consultation bodies point out that the consequences of the new consultation regime are not sufficiently investigated and that the impact assessment is inadequate. Several consultation bodies believe that the proposal will lead to increased administration and costs. It also points to risks with extended processing times and permit processes. On the other hand, the Association considers that the proposal does not go far enough with regard to the international requirements imposed on indigenous peoples' rights. Other referrals stress the need to specify the meaning of this concept. Cases of particular importance refer to cases which may have a direct impact on the Sami language, culture, industry or indigenous status, but, as has been said, several bodies believe that the meaning needs to be further clarified. As confusion about the concept may have consequences for the situations in which consultation is to take place, this must be made clear. Even as regards the meaning of the consultation being conducted in good faith and continuing until consent is obtained or until it is declared that agreement or consent cannot be reached on the matter, there is a risk of confusion. Other consultation bodies address concerns about implementation problems and dual processes that may arise when the provisions on consultation obligations in other laws and regulations apply independently of the special law. Madam President, I would like Overall, there is widespread criticism of the Government's proposals regarding, among other things, ownership rights, costs, more time-consuming processes and increased administrative burden. Consultation bodies from the green industries, power teams and the mining industry consider that there is no reason to introduce a consultation regime. Nor does Sameting think that the proposal is satisfactory. Moreover, the long-term effects of the new regulatory framework are currently difficult to fully assess. Many different actors are involved, whose interests must be balanced and balanced. The rights of the Sami must be safeguarded, while respecting and taking into account other interests. A new consultation system must be effective, serve its purpose and create added value without impairing and making it more difficult in other important respects, not least in terms of material circumstances linked to ownership and land use. We are in favour of a consultation system for Sami, but not in the form presented by the government. Against this background, we believe that Parliament should reject the bill. The government has to work on the proposal. This work should take into account the proposal for consultation in relation to the Sameting which was put forward in certain areas of Sami policy.
i-DQ9Q8MYL9r6j2APmBCf3kU	Madam President, I would like The proposal submitted by the Government proposes the introduction of a new law on consultation in matters of particular importance to the Sami people. The bill is a revised version of a bill that the government withdrew in March last year for reasons of unusuality. However, the current proposal remains in principle all the problems that were the reason for its withdrawal. The obligation to consult risks becoming too extensive and leading to more administration, increased costs and extended processing times. It is therefore very likely that the proposal will result in socio-economic costs. It is particularly evident for the sparsely populated regions that have both fewer businesses and a more strained welfare. This concern is also highlighted by several consultation bodies, including the particularly affected county boards in Västerbotten, Norrland and Jämtland. The aim of the proposal is to promote the influence of the Sami people on matters relating to its affairs. This is, of course, a starting point shared by the Swedish Democrats. The Sami people and their culture are an essential part of the Swedish nation and have been so since ancient times. Therefore, in their draft national budget, the Swedish Democrats have allocated an additional SEK 1 million to the Sami Parliament in addition to what the government has done. Of course, it is of great importance to safeguard the right of the Sami people to co-determination, but the state also has a broader responsibility for all the inhabitants of the country. These two interests must be balanced and balanced. In practice, the government proposal fails to do so. We therefore call for the proposal to be rejected.
i-KUUuqd9RQW3c57x2iAsgyb	Madam President, I would like The Sami are one of the indigenous peoples of the world and the only thing in Europe. In 1977, the Swedish Parliament recognised the Sami as indigenous, and since 2011, the Sami's special status in Sweden has been shown in Chapter 1. Section 2 the form of government. The proposal on the consultation regime aims to promote and strengthen the influence of the Sami on their affairs in accordance with indigenous law and is based, inter alia, on recommendations from international review bodies. The development of Sami rights is at a dynamic stage with ongoing processes in several areas. The legal developments in the area of Sami rights in recent years have mainly taken place through the courts. In January 2020, the Supreme Court ruled on the so-called Girjas case, which concerned the right to allow small game hunting and fishing in the Sami village area. The conflict over which state and Sami people possess these rights has been going on for decades but has never been dealt with politically so far. HD found that Girja's Girja village has the exclusive right to allow small game hunting in the area of the Sami village. The judgment only applies to Girja's Girja village, but the basic conclusions are general, although it is difficult to say how far the HD precedent reaches. In addition to the obvious importance of the relationship between the Sami villages and the state, however, the Girjas ruling also has consequences for how future disputes related to soil and natural resources may develop. These are activities that have a significantly greater economic and physical impact both locally and nationally than hunting and fishing and are of great interest, such as mining, forestry, tourism, water and wind power. It is also worth noting that the Girjas judgment deals with the issue of the Sami people as holders of rights. But of the Sami people, only a minority are members of a Sami village. The Sami villages cannot therefore assume the role of representative of the indigenous Sami people. It is also not self-evident that strengthening the rights of the Sami villages means strengthening the rights of the people as a whole. Local conflicts and internal contradictions have also flared up in connection with the Girjas judgment – a consequence of the state's being passive in investigating Sami rights issues for a hundred years. Madam President, I would like In connection with the Girjas judgment, the government has appointed the Renmark Committee to review the reindeer industry law that regulates the reindeer husbandry right and membership in the Sami villages and the grounds for the same. The Center Party welcomes the priority given to Sami issues at political level. In the present bill, the government again proposes the introduction of a new law on consultation on issues concerning the Sami people. The meaning of the proposed scheme is that the government and the state authorities – and after two years also regions and municipalities – should consult Sami representatives in matters of particular importance to the Sami people before taking decisions. The aim is to promote the influence of the Sami people over its affairs. Legislation with such urgent objectives as the one in question must be carefully considered and must make a significant contribution to solving identified problems. Otherwise, the risk is that it will contribute both to an increase in the burden of the case for hard-pressed authorities without bringing any improvement to the situation of the Sami people and to the further strengthening of the conflicts caused by competing claims by the management and effects of the consultation arrangements. The Center Party considers it unsatisfactory and remarkable that the government should in this way initiate the process of strengthening the rights of the Sami people from the wrong direction. The consultation regime will not solve the real problems, uncertainties or conflicts of interest mentioned above. One main problem is that it is not clear how the proposed consultation scheme brings added value compared to the procedures in which the Sami villages are currently in a factual position and participate in consultations, for example under the Forestry Act, the Environmental Code or the Minerals Act. The Center Party is also disappointed and critical that the government in the bill does not respond to criticism of Sweden's convention commitments and criticisms directed against Sweden. Criticism is rendered uncommented, without any explanation of the government's assessment of the criticism or its conclusions. This is particularly evident when one sees how the sensitive and complex issues of competing land use claims are dealt with. In the bill, concepts such as "traditional territories" and "traditional land areas" are treated in a reckless manner, given that these concepts have no equivalent in Swedish law. In addition, there is no account of the significance of Swedish law being respected in the specific cases. The fact that the government so passively describes the criticism completely without presenting the relevant circumstances is incomprehensible. For example, the explanation of vote of the adoption of the Indigenous Convention at the UN General Assembly in 2007 is not mentioned, which states that the political discussion on self-determination is closely linked to land rights. On these issues, the government must maintain a balance between different opposing interests. ..................................................... The government's insensitive management risks increasing polarisation between different groups in a context where there is already a large area of conflict. The Center Party believes that the first step forward in a comprehensive process to strengthen Sami rights and achieve consensus and mutual respect at local level should have begun in a thorough investigation of the consequences of the Girjas judgment. That is why we believe that the issue of the evaluation and follow-up of the consultation system for several reasons is crucial. Many consultation bodies highlight the importance of evaluating the extent to which the law has increased the workload of the authorities responsible for consultation, but first and foremost the effectiveness of the law needs to be evaluated to ensure that it actually has a real impact on the basis of its purpose. In addition, the question of whether the procedure leads to an extension of the duration of proceedings must also be answered. The Center Party therefore considers that the law should be evaluated after three years in order to clarify whether the purpose of the legislation has been achieved in an effective manner and how its application has affected the burden of the case and the duration of proceedings. In the light of the concerns raised regarding the effectiveness of legislation, the extension of processing times and the increased workload, in particular in the light of local self-government and the imposition of the proposal, the Center Party has successfully pushed the question that the consultation procedure should initially apply only to the government and its authorities. In this way, the effects and consequences of the law can be investigated, evaluated and adjusted in the necessary parts before it may be necessary to impose a consultation obligation on municipalities and regions. Let us remember that municipalities and regions already have a far-reaching obligation to consult with the Sami on matters that affect them. The Center Party believes that the results of the evaluation should serve as a basis for extending the consultation obligation to municipalities and regions. For example, the consequences for the application of the consultation arrangements to the planning process under the Planning and Construction Act have not been addressed at all. Thus, before expanding the circle of consultation bodies with more than 300 additional authorities in the form of regions and municipalities, an evaluation is absolutely necessary. I support both reservations of the Center Party and I support the Center Party's reservation 2 in paragraph 2. If the government is serious about strengthening the rights of the Sami people, it must recognise the complexity of the matter and adopt a sensitive, humble and inviting attitude towards all the interests involved. In order to calm the fears, lower the level of conflict and reduce the anxiety, the way forward must be more understanding and inclusive.
i-RANB7SY6KQbVDp1kC928Ps	Madam President, I would like Although I support both of our reservations, I only support reservation number 5. Madam President, I would like The Left Party has for a long time been pushing questions with the aim of strengthening Sami rights, influence and living conditions. We have, for example, been exercising since 1991 on the ratification of the ILO Convention 169. We are generally in favour of the government finally putting forward a proposal for consultation. That is something we have long been asking for. There are a number of positive elements to the proposal we are discussing today, such as the possibility for the Sameting, a Sami village or an organisation itself to take the initiative for consultation. After many tours of this dossier, we are at last here debating a proposal which seems to win the approval of a majority of Members of Parliament. Although we would have liked there to be broader parliamentary support for this important issue, this is nevertheless a success day, especially for all those who have been fighting for a long time to get a consultation order in place. We in the Left Party are also happy. However, although we are pleased today, we are not satisfied, and I will soon tell you what our main objections are to the government's proposal for a consultation order. Madam President, I would like As I mentioned earlier, the Left Party has repeatedly exercised its right to ratify ILO 169, the Convention on the Rights of the Indigenous Peoples. But regardless of this, Sweden recognised the Sami as indigenous as early as 1977, and with it there are special rights. These include the right to self-determination. The state's Sami policy is an extremely dark story where the Sami have been subjected to countless wrongs and violations. Let me be clear that with the indigenous status of the Sami, rights also come, and that cannot be just rights on paper or vague in theory, which means that other things may be allowed to stand back. So far, Sweden has not been very good at meeting the rights of the Sami people, but we receive regular criticism from the UN. A recurring criticism that we also agree with is that Sweden should revise its legislation so that it reflects Sami status as indigenous peoples and that the legislation should comply with international standards of free and informed prior consent, so-called FPIC, free prior and informed consent, which is a fundamental principle of international law. This principle deals with states' relations with indigenous peoples and is central to the UN's indigenous declaration – a declaration that Sweden supports but has not implemented even though we have had over ten years. It is regrettable that the government has chosen not to base its proposal for consultation on this principle of international law. Like many consultation bodies, we are critical of this and we are concerned that the consultation system is thus in danger of not fulfilling its purpose fully. It is important that the consultation not only entails a right to be heard and involved, but also provides a real opportunity to influence. In our opinion, it is regrettable that the government has chosen to put forward a proposal for a consultation system that is contrary to modern international law and could be another wrong from the state committed against the Sami. This, Madam President, is therefore our strongest objection to the proposal. The Government has introduced wordings that point to recognition of the FPIC principle and also intends to examine, when evaluating the new law, what the principle means for the Swedish state's relationship with the Sami people. We think this is a good thing. Another criticism we have of the proposal is that the law will only apply to municipalities and regions in just over two years' time. We believe that the law should apply to municipalities and regions from the start. Madam President, I would like There are many hopes and expectations of this law, even from us in the Left Party. As I said earlier, there are many who have been fighting for a long time to get a consultation order in place and who continue to fight for increased Sami rights. I would like to turn specifically to those of you who are fighting. You have in many ways fought to be heard, seen and broken through the noise of everything else. You have shared experiences and painful experiences to create a greater awareness of the violations that have occurred historically but also in the present. Your struggle has not been and will not be in vain, even if it goes far too slowly. What will happen then when the consultation order comes into effect, someone may wonder. I can promise that we in the Left Party will not be content just because the law comes into place, but we will follow that it also gives real effect and influence. The government has already said that the law will need to be evaluated within a few years. We will follow that process closely and, of course, in conjunction with Sami representatives, hear how and if the order of consultation needs to be changed.
i-B8Pfs2uprGXznWBGWLwDBw	Madam President, I would like We are here today to debate the introduction of a consultation system on issues concerning the Sami people. As our indigenous people, the Sami people are an important part of our country's history but also our country's future. It is therefore high time that we now took this step for Sami influence and participation. The Swedish state has historically committed great abuse of the Sami people. This concerns the suppression of language and culture as well as the neglect of historical rights to land and water. Many interests meet in the competition for the resources that exist in northern Sweden, and then it is important that the Sami interests are taken into account. By requiring the government, state administrative authorities, regions and municipalities to consult representatives of the Sami people before taking decisions on matters that may have a particular impact on the Sami people, a statutory right to influence and participation is granted. The proposal provides for derogations for certain types of cases and for certain administrative authorities. The arrangements for the consultation shall be determined by the person responsible for the consultation. However, the person responsible for the consultation still has the obligation to carry out the consultation as far as possible in a form that the Sami representatives wish. It has been a long way to go, and the content of the proposal has been adjusted according to Parliament's views. This means that municipalities and regions will have longer time before they are consulted in the same way as the government and the state administration authorities, which is particularly welcome in some smaller municipalities. International committees and experts have pointed to Sweden on several occasions and recommended that we ensure that our national legislation allows the Sami people to influence decisions concerning them. Now we have such an opportunity in place. I note that we stand here today to debate a well-prepared and balanced proposal. I therefore support the committee's proposal.
i-JJ9C73tGnWdt7m1pxiE7Dt	Madam President, I would like This report is called a consultation system on issues concerning the Sami people. Now, of course, we cannot reserve ourselves against the title, but I already think that there is evidence here why we need to raise and debate issues specifically concerning the rights of majority and minority people and how we protect the rights of minorities to the culture they want to maintain and develop, or phase out, while at the same time clarifying and creating the conditions that it is all of us that make up Sweden. Unity in diversity, already said the ancient Greeks, but in Greek then. It is not enough simply to tolerate each other; it is a matter of listening, understanding and valuing each other's differences in order to find a solution that benefits everyone. That is why I think the title can be perceived as misleading. We need a consultation system on issues that specifically concern the Sami people, but not exclusively, because the issues concern us all, the minority as well as the majority, albeit in different ways. The question of Sami influence has been debated in politics for a long time and continues. Virtually everyone thinks that Sami should have an influence, but exactly what, how much, in what and where are still hot questions. These are issues that many would rather delay the future because they do not think the proposal is sufficient, or it is too far-reaching, or the effects of the proposal are not sufficiently investigated. I can respect these objections, at least some of them. One can call me cynical, Madam President, but I am quite convinced that, regardless of what proposals for a consultation system have come up on the table, the arguments would have been opposed and sounded exactly the same: too little, too much, not sufficiently clear. The Liberals support the Government's proposal for a consultation system on issues that specifically concern the Sami people, not only because we believe that everything else is unreasonable by a nation that is otherwise always at the barricades of other countries' minorities and indigenous peoples, but also because we think that the proposal is insightful and reasonable. The proposal and the report say that the government and the state administrative authorities should consult the Sami Parliament and, in some cases, a Sami society or organisation before decisions are taken on matters that may be of particular importance to the Sami people. Reasonable. It is believed that it is important that the Sami can also have an influence at local and regional level, since decisions are also taken at this level which are of particular importance to the Sami people. Reasonable. Municipalities and regions are deemed to have a greater need for preparation than the government and the state administrative authorities and should therefore be required to consult only two years after the entry into force of the new law, i.e. from 1 March 2024. Reasonable. The proposal and the report state that the consultation act should be evaluated a few years after its entry into force, for example, in order to analyse its application, if the purpose is met, socio-economic consequences and effects, the relationship with regular consultation processes and the question of the delimitation of which administrative authorities should be exempted from the consultation obligation. Again: reasonable. Madam President, I would like The Sami people have a special position as an indigenous people and are also a national minority. For several years, efforts have been made to formalise a consultation system in which the Sami people are given the opportunity to express their views on issues of particular concern to the Sami people. A bill was tabled already last year, but it was withdrawn for lack of parliamentary support. The Liberals regret this, as we regret today, that even today there is not a united parliament behind this proposal. The responsibility for that can probably be found on both sides of the water between our two houses. It is bad, because it is the Sami who are particularly suffering in this. I support the proposal in the report.
i-WPjEaV6YGWPaqjmiGFCfMk	Madam President, I would like Today, the Riksdag is taking a big step forward to strengthen indigenous rights when we decide on a consultation order on issues concerning the Sami people. This is a matter of concern to the Green Party. And we are proud that Amanda Lind in the former red-green government, after a patient work, was finally able to present a bill that has the opportunity to get the support of the Riksdag. After a long struggle for Sami representatives and human rights organisations, Sweden will get a consultation order, a law that regulates how Sami should have influence over issues that affect them. We're proud of that. However, much work remains to be done to ensure that Sami rights are fully safeguarded. Now comes the legislation that describes the goal of consulting Sami people. The aim is to reach consensus or consent as far as possible – to reach agreement – which is a fundamental starting point for a democratic society. The law describes how consultations should be conducted – who should invite, who should speak and who should document. Consultations should be meaningful and take place, as it is expressed in these contexts, in a good spirit. It must provide a real opportunity for the Sami society, Sami organisations or a Sami village to participate properly and, for example, to have enough time to familiarise themselves with matters. It is also regulated that, so to speak, it can be agreed that there is no agreement if the aim cannot be achieved. This is where we are now. This is a step forward, but not without difficulty. The proposal receives criticism from two sides. It is both inadequate and goes too far at the same time. Nevertheless, this makes me think that, despite everything today, we have a proposal in between which a majority can support it. It tells me that this is still what we would call a balanced proposal. Thanks to the fact that we are in this parliamentary position, I believe that it is this step that is right and possible to take right now. After the forthcoming evaluation of the law, it may be time to take new steps. Nevertheless, I note that critics often start by supporting and welcoming the strengthening of the rights of Sami people in matters that affect them. But – because it is often a but – it must not make it more difficult, it must not cost money and it must not take time. It must provide added value, but it must not imply a shift of rights, or any experience of a shift of rights. It would appear that fewer parts of the public should consult fewer Sami actors on fewer issues. And when the very purpose is to provide the opportunity for increased influence and strengthened rights, it still becomes a bit of a mystery how to make this go together. For the Green Party, this is only one step along the way. Strengthening the rights of indigenous peoples also means ensuring that the legislation is actually implemented in such a way that it includes representatives of different parts of Sami society. In the face of decisions of particular importance to Sami people, such as land exploitation, there is a need for a truly meaningful consultation with those concerned. Decision-makers also need to be able to demonstrate how they have taken into account the knowledge and opinions of Sami people on the proposals under discussion. Madam President, I would like More is needed to strengthen Sami rights. For example, the Green Party believes that no iron ore mine should be opened in Kallak based on the risks for the environment and nature, but also for Sami culture and reindeer husbandry. We have a Commission of Truth which is now working and which really needs to be able to make visible what the Sami people have been subjected to and to be able to make concrete proposals that contribute to redress and promote reconciliation. Efforts need to be made to improve the mental health of Sami people, for example through better conditions for reindeer husbandry and strengthening the work of the regions on Sami health. The Green Party wants Sweden to ratify ILO 169 on indigenous rights and for Sami remains and sacred objects to be returned to Sápmi. The Sami have the right not only to maintain their culture but also to develop it. Special efforts are needed in language and education. The Green Party will continue its efforts to promote the rights of the Sami people unabated. We look forward to continued dialogue with Sami representatives, with the government and with other parties to move forward and continue making a difference. I support the committee's proposal for a consultation procedure on matters concerning the Sami people.
i-J6oHeWwaYtXotdiJ5xU9Tn	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the KU9 reservation to be approved. We have the case Right to leave for political missions at local and regional level in another country on the agenda now. Democracy is based on great principles, great principles that are expressed even in the smallest cases. The Local Government Act regulates the right to leave for Swedish elected representatives. This right is a prerequisite for inclusive and equal democratic engagement. The issue of leave for border commuters with local and regional political assignments within the Nordic region is extremely limited. There are no exact estimates in the bill. However, only a few individuals are likely to be bothered by current legislation. But is it, in principle, wrong to help these individuals simply because they are a few? It certainly is not, if it is done mutually. In this way, Swedish elected representatives working in Copenhagen, for example, could be entitled to leave from their Danish employers, and their Danish counterparts working in Malmö could be given the same right. The issue dealt with in the Government proposal has been prepared by and for more than ten years. As is well known, the government prepared a draft of such an agreement with Denmark – the Ministry Memorandum Ds 2018:26– but eventually chose not to support it with regard to EU law. I would like to say that here we are in a grey area between constitutional and labour law issues, a grey area which European law cannot and should not regulate. The position of the Swedish democrats is clear: Unlike the way in which the government wishes to amend the Local Government Act with regard to EU law, we believe that which Sweden chooses to give or does not give the right to leave for political missions is a national democracy issue – not something that falls within the competence of the EU. Here we have reached the heart of the matter: the government chooses, quite unilaterally, to grant Bulgarian municipal councillors, lay accountants in Greece and board members of French municipal companies the right to leave from Swedish employers, while writing that there is nothing to suggest that such a border commute exists on a significant scale. All of this is the result of a fundamentally unjustified fear of EU law. Nor are we convinced that the practical consequences of the current proposals are reasonable. Given all the different policy systems in the EEA, Switzerland and the United Kingdom, the bill will impose unnecessary administrative burdens on Swedish employers. There may also be risks of abuse that might need further investigation. Madam President, I would like The Municipal Act's right to leave for political positions of trust is primarily for municipal and regional leisure politicians and is adapted to Swedish conditions. We find it difficult to apply this legislation directly to countries outside the Nordic region, especially since the Government's proposal is that the leave should cover not only the time of the meetings necessary for the mission but also travel to and from meetings and the necessary daily rest immediately before or after meetings. This is entirely reasonable when, for example, it comes to a few hours' participation in the local council. It is difficult to see why the bill should not be rejected, Madam President. Of course, it would be positive if the issue of leave for locally active Nordic border commuters could be resolved, but this proposal does not – at least not for Sweden. Not a single Swedish elected representative working in Copenhagen will benefit from the government getting this amendment through. When the government states on page 8 of the bill that the dialogue with Denmark should continue, it recognises that it has still not solved the most important substantive political problem that has formed the basis of the whole bill ever since the issue was first raised more than ten years ago. The Swedish Democrats fully support the mutual facilitation of local and regional border-spinning policies within the Nordic region, but not in this way.
i-YQaXHRE9hWXGQB3Uqqa3Hz	Madam President, I would like Our democratic society in municipalities and regions is based on assignments that are largely exercised by elected representatives in their spare time or in combination with secular work. Those who take on a position of trust in society are expected to be informed, informed and actively involved in meetings and gatherings. It takes time, effort and attendance at a series of meetings where questions are prepared and decided. The ability to carry out the mission in a reasonable manner is an urgent matter to monitor, and it is prepared and decided in municipalities and regions for each new term of office. In particular, in cross-border areas between countries, where people may work in one country and live in another and move more or less daily between countries, the problem of compensation for lost earnings has been highlighted as a shortcoming. Different regulations have made people's commitment to society more difficult. This is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the KU9, which has been taken up for a long time by not least the Nordic Council – which, by the way, includes me – as a barrier to borders. As the title of the report also says, this is about the right to leave for political missions at local and regional level in another country. I would like to support the proposal in the report. For both the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers, the removal of border barriers that hamper individuals' mobility or companies' ability to operate across borders in our countries has long been a priority issue. However, the proposal that the committee has now adopted concerns not only our Nordic countries but also EEA countries, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. As mentioned earlier, this has to do with the construction of EU law; it is a matter of taking into account EU law rules and principles and combating discrimination. Madam President, I would like Someone may ask how many people are affected by this decision. Yes, it may vary over time, but the potential is extensive – according to the statistics available in our proposal, we see that in 2009 there were 29 000 commuters between Sweden and Norway and 14 000 commuters between Sweden and Denmark. There were a thousand between Denmark and Sweden and between Norway and Sweden. Each of these should of course have the opportunity to take on and carry out political missions in the best possible way. In this context, the proposal is based on the joint Nordic declaration on elected representatives' leave of absence endorsed by the Nordic Council as early as 2014. The declaration points out that the political systems in the Nordic countries are largely characterised by the fact that elected representatives are not professional politicians and that the legal systems have great similarities in terms of municipal politicians' right to leave in order to fulfil their mandate. On the basis of the discussion taking place in the Nordic Council and also on the basis of the views of those concerned that I myself meet in my home country of Skåne, as well as through the cooperation body Greater Copenhagen, it is welcome that issues such as border barriers such as this are removed. In the consultation round, the Swedish Employers' Agency and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise have pointed out that this can give rise to some additional work and practical border drawing problems for employers. However, the importance of such a right for democracy and freedom of movement within the Nordic countries and within the EEA may, in accordance with the basis we have in the proposal, be considered to outweigh any problems that may arise. In a memorandum that has been included in the preparation work, it is proposed that Sweden enter into an agreement with Denmark on the right of cross-border commuters to leave from work in order to fulfil assignments at local and regional level. However, there are limited possibilities for Sweden to conclude such an agreement, taking into account the eight prohibitions of discrimination by EU law, Article 18 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and the duty of loyalty, Article 4(3) of the Treaty on European Union. The issue should therefore be resolved in a different way than through a direct agreement. However, as the report also emphasises, dialogue with Denmark on this issue should continue. Each country has to decide and discuss on the basis of the conditions prevailing in each country. By agreeing to the proposal here in the Swedish Parliament, we are nevertheless taking a step on the way to reaching an issue that has hampered the opportunities for social participation for, above all, border commuters. It contributes to greater participation and is of benefit both to cross-border cooperation and to the cooperation of our country. It also promotes the democratic work that needs to be done by elected representatives every day. I believe that with this decision we are taking a step forward in order to make it a reality also in Denmark, Finland and other countries that have been mentioned in this context.
i-GNJZjzzD2sTdqa9xDBukLt	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. As the two previous speakers have highlighted this issue in an interesting and diverse way, I shall confine myself to making it clear that we Moderates are behind the report that is on the table of this House today. We note that it is important in a world where we travel more and more across borders. We hope that once the pandemic has ebbed out, we will be able to achieve a new normal situation in which exchanges between countries continue to develop. Perhaps, above all, within our Nordic cooperation, this is a correct step along the way. Reciprocity is of course important. But all in all, we believe that there are sufficient reasons for Sweden to choose to take the measure to remove border barriers. If this means that a municipal councillor from a country that is not Nordic could be given leave for his local position of trust at home, one might say that it is a price that is worth paying. The question is whether it should even be regarded as a price to pay. We have an interest in countries around us also having a functioning local and regional democratic process. In the long run, you can also drive towards other countries the hope that Swedes will have the same opportunities in return. But democracy is not always a zero-sum game. Democracy must sometimes be given priority, even if it is not always the main winner.
i-5BbtSZwTh3ZmbBzpRknBjm	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation numme r 1 in the report. Strengthening the protection of journalists and media editorials is one of the most important measures we can take to ensure the development of a turbulent media landscape in our time. Madam President, I would like In fact, there is something right and wrong. There is true, and there is false. There are facts, and there are false statements. But in a landscape where lies become truth, where errors become right, where no one can be considered to know what is right or wrong, lie or truth, and where everything can be relativised, we as a society need something to stay in. Serious and independent journalism is one of the things we can stay in. In order not to completely lose its footing, not to wander out into a desert without a map and compass, we need independent and strong journalism. The protection of media editorials and journalists is part of it. Another part is to facilitate the transition of our serious media houses and events to a new, sustainable and long-term situation in terms of funding, recruitment conditions and further work. That is why it is important for the Moderates, as we point out in the report, that the media support given must lead to a change. It is important that we support our media landscape in order to maintain the magnitude and height of the work. But in order to achieve new, stable conditions in a digitalised world with social media and a developed media landscape, the transition must continue. We must not have press and media support cementing old structures in something that will not be viable in the long term. Madam President, I would like With that, I would like to ask once again for the approval of reservation number 1.
i-RrrbomGLzs3ptrRRDikBfB	Madam President, I would like The report now under discussion concerns the most fundamental aspects of how our democracy works. If society does not protect the ability to bump and wet opinions with each other in an open, transparent and free way, ordinary Swedes cannot have access to the breadth of perspectives that are necessary to be able to make well-balanced political decisions. In such a situation, citizens' basic understanding of society as a whole is also likely to suffer. Without a wide range of views and perspectives, we will not get any depth in the issues that characterise the present. Without that depth, democracy is undermining itself in the long term. Fortunately, we're not quite there yet. In some ways the public conversation is freer than has often been the case. Compared to many times in world history, it is relatively easy for those with divergent opinions to make their voices heard. At the same time, there are forces that act in the opposite direction, forces that, unfortunately, seem to be a little stronger. Until recently, digitalisation and the growing role that the Internet has played in society's political exchange of views have been a force for freedom. However, as a few players have come to dominate large parts of the digital services market, these conditions are beginning to change. The market dominance of companies such as Facebook, Google and Amazon is in many ways a natural consequence of the internet's structure. In particular, services dealing with seeking out information or bringing people together will easily become monopolies and oligopolies. In practice, the monopolistic status of these few platforms also leads to the same for companies that own the platforms that Swedes, as well as the population of all other countries, increasingly use to participate in the public conversation. In the light of this, considering these players as any company is an out-of-date approach. The Swedish Democrats therefore propose that the concept of "prudence" should begin to be used to refer to the platforms owned by these tech giants. The opinion tower is vital information infrastructure and should be regulated accordingly. This approach may seem radical, but it is really nothing new. Ever since industrialisation took off in the 19th century, the public has entered and regulated markets that have not worked. In practice, today's public information markets are not functioning properly. It's something that's important to press. Madam President, I would like Let me mention, for example, that a number of journalists, media channels and politicians have been suspended in recent months from the major media platforms without any real explanation. Nor is it a secret that this most often affects oppositionists. For example, the Swedish Democratic Member of the European Parliament, Jessica Stegrud, has been suspended because she responded to a gross attack with the words: You seem ignorant. A democratically elected representative of the Swedish people was thus silenced in a way that seems entirely arbitrary. Of course, regulating these companies is not an easy task. We fully understand that several aspects need to be further investigated. How the tech giants should be defined or exactly what conditions should apply to accounts on the opinion tower, the tech giants' platforms, are such questions. However, there is still room to point out a broad direction for how society should behave. First of all, it is clear that the moderation of the power of opinion should be regulated more clearly than it is today. A basic point of departure is that a power of opinion on the major social media platforms should not be able to agree a certain type of opinion formation. Law, rather than terms of use, must govern freedom of expression also on the internet. A natural consequence of this will be to impose the power of opinion on something similar to the banker's duty of countering, as a general rule, to give all natural and legal persons the right to an account. Should something be removed from the platform, the starting point should be that these are individual opinions, not individuals, companies or entire organisations. The Swedish Democrats also believe that anonymous accounts have an important role to play. They should certainly not be banned. If the content is legal, the power of opinion should not therefore be able to delete it on purely subjective grounds. In this respect, shadow-baning – that the interactions of some accounts with other accounts in the opinion-center are limited without the account holder understanding it – is really to be considered fraud. The Swedish Democrats strongly support a system of so-called trusted flaggers provided that the aim is to take down illegal content rather than moderate the political discussion. Shadow-banning is also linked to another problem, namely when algorithms are adjusted in such a way that certain points of view are highlighted while others are pushed back. This should, of course, be prohibited and should be considered particularly serious in the event of elections. Transparency between platforms and users needs to be strengthened. It is unreasonable that the person who is suspended or moderated cannot have his or her case examined or even found out what caused the action. Nor does it make sense that there is no right to appeal or to go to court. We also believe, for natural reasons, that the Swedish public conversation should be regulated within Sweden's borders. The fact that the EU is now proposing to legislate so that content that violates the law in one Member State can be brought down throughout the EU is very worrying. Let us for a moment ignore the obvious restriction of Sweden's sovereignty, but what will be the consequence, Madam President, if not a race to the bottom where EU countries with the most restrictive freedom of expression legislation can set the tone for all other Member States? Instead of leaving the regulation of our single most important freedom of expression arena to large companies and Brussels, we should follow a rich Swedish administrative tradition and appoint a supervisory authority. Why not allow the Chancellor of Justice to pursue the process of freedom of expression goals on the internet, given the authority's specific competence? It is likely that it will also be necessary to educate those who moderate the content of opinions in Swedish freedom of expression. Then let's do it! Madam President, I would like The Swedish democrats are very well aware that the bill is in many respects transparent. Large companies often have a small beginning, and this concerns several particularly large ones. However, this process must start somewhere. Finally, I support the Swedish Democrats' reservation 7 on this matter.
i-VzdPxCydpfbiZbVrkEFybq	Madam President, I would like Since ideas of liberal democracy emerged during the Enlightenment Age, and especially since they began to have a great impact in the 20th century, they have led to great progress around the world. In liberal democracies, billions of people have won their right to vote, regardless of gender, ethnicity or economy. In many countries, women's rights movements have strengthened women's power over their lives and bodies, and civil rights movements have strengthened minority rights. Where a free press has flourished, a previously quieted public has gained more influence over the development of society and better opportunities to hold those in power accountable. Unfortunately, we also see examples of the opposite. Where an authoritarian regime fights for a retained possession of power and where regime survival is the primary objective, the fight against democracy, rule of law and human rights goes hand in hand with increased repression against journalism, civil society and history itself. The press and the media are rightly referred to as the third state power. They are one of the most important institutions in a strong liberal democracy, as they require strong media to review power, inform citizens and highlight societal problems. That is an important reason why we now want to make it more difficult to change the protection of freedom of the press and other rights under the Constitution. In order for the third government to succeed fully, the media are required to operate from Kiruna in the north to Trelleborg in the south, from the small municipality to the Riksdag and Rosenbad. The Centre Party takes seriously the white spots of guarding that have arisen as a result of closures and cuts in local media in smaller towns. We will continue to pursue a media policy that allows for a viable pressure throughout the country. Madam President, I would like The Center Party values public services' extremely important missions. We also know that in many cases the capacity and impartiality of public services have been among the first victims of authoritarian and illiberal leaders taking power. The Center Party therefore wants to protect the independence and ability of public services to review power. In connection with, among other things, the emergence of the Internet and the fact that politicians have attacked the media, threats, hatred and harassment of journalists have increased in scope and severity. It is a serious threat to liberal democracy. Women and minorities are particularly vulnerable, which risks limiting what voices are heard in the public debate. That too is a democracy problem. The Center Party therefore wants to strengthen the capacity of police units working on democracy issues and to give the Crime Prevention Council a clearer mandate to train and support employers, trade unions and media professionals in how to deal with and report threats and harassment. In addition, we want victims' shelters to receive increased support for their important work in supporting vulnerable journalists. We also want to introduce public support, like that of religious communities, which newsrooms and others can use to invest in security measures, ranging from investment in physical security to security training and cyber security. It is not least important for small companies that lack the resources and knowledge of large media houses. I therefore propose that reservation 3 be approved. Madam President, I would like The Coronapendem has highlighted the importance of comprehensive and independent news coverage, not least to counter the information demine and the dissemination of disinformation and conspiracy theories. The need to describe, among other things, what has happened and what is happening in society and what can be done to reduce the effects of the pandemic is great. At the same time, the advertising revenue of the media houses has collapsed. A permanent strengthening of media support of SEK 200 million per year was decided in spring 2020. In addition, a broader support of SEK 500 million was decided for 2020 and included more news media to reduce the impact of the pandemic. These measures were put into the emergency situation and their effects need to be monitored. What developments in the media area will be in the longer term needs to be closely monitored in order to take adequate measures to ensure access to comprehensive and independent news coverage and opinion-forming across the country in the future. Major and rapid changes continue to take place in the media area. Many local offices have been closed down in recent years, and this trend continues to be gloomy. The background is that advertising money has been moved to other places on the internet. In addition, there has now been an increase in advertising revenue due to the coronapandemine. Access to comprehensive and independent news coverage and opinion-forming throughout the country must be ensured. It is therefore particularly important to monitor areas that are particularly vulnerable where news coverage is missing or has a lower frequency and see what more can be done to improve the situation. Then the effects of media support for so-called white spots also need to be closely monitored. The Center Party welcomes the fact that media support is now under review. Honored Mr. Old President! We have long seen how interest from foreign power to acquire Swedish knowledge, technology and research through legal and illegal methods has increased. It can open up for Russian or Chinese players, for example, to buy free and independent media in Sweden. In order not to open the doors wide, it would be important to raise the thresholds appropriately, of course, with respect for the constitutions. How national security interests can be ensured during licence testing for television, text television and audio radio has been dealt with in a special investigation. The question of how it is ensured in order to assert the other free and independent media must also be addressed. We assume that the government will ensure that this happens. This can be done through the Strategic Product Inspection, which is now a national audit function for foreign direct investment, or otherwise. In any case, the Center Party believes that the government needs to return to Parliament with information on how it intends to do this. Finally, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the Center Party continues to work in the area by area for strong and independent media as an inalienable part of a stronger liberal democracy. I support all the reservations expressed by the Centre Party and, as has already been said, I call for the approval of reservation 3.
i-FJQ1CYWNkxJyNebhpmi4y1	Mr. Old President! So we are now debating a motion report on freedom of expression and press and media issues. Often the KU has completely unanimous reports, but on these issues we have different views in several cases. There are 17 reservations in the report. There are very many important issues involved, and the starting point is exercise from general exercise time. There is no proposal linked to a government proposal. Of all these issues, I would like to highlight the problem that articles and texts that contain incitement to ethnic groups can remain on databases in a way that is not reasonable or intended by the legislator. As has been said, freedom of print and expression must be defended. But it is and must also be regulated. In January 2019, rules were introduced in the Freedom of Expression Basic Act on the exemption of older materials from liability in databases. For example, if a newspaper makes its old articles available on a website, the publisher in charge should not today be responsible for things that are old. This applies, for example, to content that is incited to racial hatred or slander. The responsible publisher will have two weeks to remove old material and will not be prosecuted. Time is counted from the day the Chancellor of Justice or the plaintiff informs the responsible publisher that there is material that may constitute a breach of freedom of expression. Even when this regulatory framework was decided, there were those who feared that articles could be published on websites but with a design so that they would be perceived as old articles. Thus, the responsible publisher would have two weeks to remove the article. In the meantime, the material, possibly criminal, could remain on the website. Thus, depending on when the material is brought to the attention of the Chancellor of Justice or the plaintiff, articles that could constitute a crime of freedom of the press may be available for quite some time without anyone being held responsible for it. Following the entry into force of this Act, the Expo Foundation has reported that the former responsible editors of the Nordic Resistance have avoided criminal liability for several cases of incitement to ethnic groups. It has also been reported that publishers of Nazi material have been able to extend the 14-day period in force to remove illegal publications by simply staying out of service. A minimum measure in this case could be that it is a requirement to obtain a release certificate that the responsible publisher is reachable. An increase in the number of articles on the Internet that may constitute a crime is not the intention of this legislation. The Left Party therefore believes that an evaluation of the regulatory framework should be carried out. It has now been three years since it was introduced, and there is every reason to evaluate the effects. I therefore support reservation No 5.
i-4erm7WkGJg3T3X3e5Jdf6c	Mr. Old President! It is for good reason that the media have been informally referred to as the third state power since the mid 1800s. For a long time, the media have been looking at those in power, paying attention to individuals who have fallen between the chairs of society and revealing how companies cheat with their work, all for the benefit of democracy. Liberals believe that media policy should be built on a solid foundation and that it is based on freedom and democracy. There is, unfortunately, reason to recall this. Political power in countries also near us sees opportunities in controlling what news reaches the citizens and how this news is biased. It is worrying that this is happening in the world around us, it is worrying that the infection goes from country to country, and it is worrying that Sweden is not vaccinated against this either. We see a strong tone in social media. We see allegations of fake news. We see how mainstream media has become barking words and how extremists try to influence what is published. The other side of the coin is that we also see how those to be examined try to hide from the journalistic gaze in different ways. This applies from employing a large number of informants who give the power's picture of reality to trying in different ways to overcome the principle of public access. Mr. Old President! If you want to safeguard freedom in the long term, you have to ensure that the media can stand on their own and strong feet as far as possible. Therefore, clear legislation and good general conditions for the media are needed. Media support must be renewed and modernised. In order to safeguard independence and reduce the influence of politicians, the support given as far as possible should be general, automatic and rights-based. They must be designed to strengthen journalism, not to promote so-called grant entrepreneurs. Although the aim must be for the media to stand on its own feet, at least for a long time to come there will be a need for state aid, not least in areas where the market and subscribers are unable to carry it for democracy so important examining local journalism. Here I could reserve the Liberals for gaps in this report. However, as there is a review of support for the media, we choose to give only a so-called special opinion with approximately this content. Mr. Old President! As I said, investigative journalism is a prerequisite for a living democracy. But journalism is hard-pressed from several quarters. According to a study at the University of Gothenburg, almost six out of ten of the country's journalists have been subjected to harassment, threats or violence in connection with their professional practice. The threats serve their purpose. Many threatened journalists report that their work is affected. They choose not to monitor sensitive subjects, people and questions. The defence of freedom of print and expression also includes a responsibility to prevent and prevent threats, harassment and violence that both individuals and groups are targeting journalists and other media workers. Under the paragraph on the security of journalists and media editorials, the Liberals did not object to the majority line because we agree that on several fronts, not least at European level, active work is being done to strengthen protection. Let's see how that work comes out before we demand something else, more and tougher. Mr. Old President! The Radio and Television Audit Board monitors, through an ex-post review, whether programmes comply with the Radio and Television Act and the programme-related conditions that may apply. Liberals believe that in order to ensure that the work of the Board of Review is not politicised through the government's ability to intervene, its independence must be given greater legal protection. For example, corresponding restrictions should be imposed on the Administrative Foundation. This means that no member of the Board may be a member of the Parliament acting or a member of the European Parliament, a minister or an employee of the Government Office, a parliamentary party or a member of the European Parliament. A withdrawal rule of one year should reasonably exist. There is also a need for protection against a sudden resignation. The members of the Administrative Foundation can only be dismissed if there are exceptional reasons, but what this means is, on the other hand, up to the discretion of the government. For the members of the Audit Board, this protection does not even exist. There is no protection at all against dismissal from the will of the person concerned. Mr. Old President! This report is broad and full of important issues. I have just raised some of the issues that lie with me and my party extra close to my heart. But the debate will certainly continue, especially an election year like this. Then it is particularly important that we keep our heads cool and remember that we must make laws here that not only benefit those who are in power at the moment, but that we have the objectives of long-term democracy in view and well in view. Nevertheless, I do not support the Liberals' reservation number 14.
i-W6tk5T8gCjihta5puFoJ7S	Mr. Old President! Today, the Constitutional Committee is debating important issues relating to freedom of the press and of expression and the media. The questions arouse commitment, and the committee has dealt with no less than 110 motions in motions from the general exercise period 2020/ 21 and 2021/ 22. Let me begin by stating that freedom of expression has a long tradition and a strong position in Sweden. That is why it is laid down in our constitutions. It is only a few years since we celebrated the 250th anniversary of the Swedish Freedom of the Press Act – the year was 2016, for those who are curious. It is not only the oldest of its kind in the world, it has also given Sweden a strong tradition of independent press and is one of the absolute cornerstones of democracy. Freedom of the press and of expression is a prerequisite for free public debate and freedom of opinion. The Green Party wants to protect the free speech. At a time when many interests engage in improper information by spreading conspiracy theories and misinformation in Swedish society, it is more important than ever that there is a variety of serious news media working from established media ethics with its high demands for truthfulness, fair selection, relevance and obligation to hear different perspectives. The diversity of free media is one of the most important ways of safeguarding open, democratic society and free opinion-forming. We want to protect the investigative journalism, counteract the dissemination of disinformation and increase the population's knowledge of source criticism. Mr. Old President! Large social media have developed and started using policies to mark when opinions from leaders conflict with established facts. Work on this needs to be intensified and common principles based on the ECHR need to be established by the EU. In countries that restrict freedom of expression but are still open to the outside world, independent social media play an important role in the democracy movement. In these contexts, the global platforms with the majority of users in democratic states can be the bearers of values of freedom and human rights. Social media have the opportunity to set rules for content on their own platforms and need to take that responsibility more clearly than today, but they also need the support of democratic states and democratic cooperation such as the EU in order to do so in the long run. The EU needs to set the framework both for when content in social media violates human rights and for when censorship or limitation of content does. Sweden should cooperate within the EU and with other major democracies in order to put joint pressure on social media giants to prevent disinformation from being spread on their platforms. It is also important to make demands on internet platforms to stand up for freedom of expression in third countries if they want to operate within the EU. Mr. Old President! We live in a media landscape under great and rapid transformation, where previous conditions for media consumption and news media are put on hold. Access to media and information has improved, exchanges of views and expressions of opinion have been facilitated and more can produce and publish media content. At the same time, the new media landscape creates challenges in the form of eroded business models, media polarization, mistrust of the media and geographical areas that sometimes lack journalistic coverage, so-called white spots. An ambitious media policy strives for a living media diversity where strong, responsible and independent media across the country can help to highlight events in society from different perspectives. A strong public service in a vibrant media market characterised by integrity, independence, media ethics and a diversity of perspectives, and enjoying public confidence, is the foundation of the Green Party's media policy. The media economy was already heavily strained by very small margins before the coronapndemy. News media are crucial to society's functioning in a crisis and are defined by MSB as socially important activities. For example, if the newspaper ends its publication, it would severely impair public access to information and create concerns that could seriously exacerbate the current crisis. Unlike other industries, demand for news media services, that is, news, has increased sharply during the pandemic. The Green Party has called for a new model of media support, as well as a review of VAT and taxes for news production. As more and more people read their daily newspaper online, the new media support should be technologically neutral, in order to ensure public access to a variety of public news media. In October 2021, the Ministry of Culture commissioned an investigator to assist the Ministry in evaluating the existing support to the media. A key question according to the mission description is whether the current operating aid should be phased out and replaced by more technology-neutral aid for editorial costs. We look forward to the results of the investigation in June. Mr. Old President! Finally, I would like to say that a strong and viable media landscape is a prerequisite for our democracy to function and develop. In times of crisis, as during the pandemic, we become even more aware of this. If misinformation gets hold of, or if accurate information on, for example, vaccines is missing, it can have devastating consequences for humans. The Green Party will always stand up for media freedom and opportunities to operate throughout the country. I support the Green Party's Amendment No 8.
i-K4E4GoTukCS4osWArqBh8h	Mr. Old President! I intend today to talk about freedom of expression on the Internet, focusing on the international tech companies and their platforms, which have developed into the most important places to be today if you want to participate in the democratic dialogue and opinion-forming. On this basis, I would also like to take the opportunity to call for approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation number 7. Mr. Old President! What we see on our wall, or wall, when we log on to Facebook, Twitter or other social media is controlled by algorithms that slow down or select what and which posts you should be exposed to from the people you have chosen to follow. What and how much you are exposed to by various thoughts and opinions have big tech companies an unregulated power over, and the algorithms are trade secrets. What is social media? It is the world that has been pulled down before our eyes to blind us from reality. Now I allowed myself to paraphrase the character Morpheus from the film Matrix of 1999. I took the opportunity to do so because I believe that what we see is not necessarily representative of what people think on various issues. It is a selection, in which I think it is clear that the votes and opinions of the conservative side are being held back while social liberal and progressive expressions are being rewarded. I often notice it myself: posts in certain topics, which I find important and urgent, disappear directly into cyberspace without receivers. Try it yourself to write that Facebook and Twitter's censorship or shadow banning is a democratic problem! Mr. Old President! Despite the fact that, in principle, all our democratic conversations take place over the internet today and are spread through a few tech companies, the protection of freedom of expression and opinion is virtually non-existent on these platforms. We have frighteningly left it to private companies, in almost all cases on the other side of the world, to set the limits of Swedish freedom of expression. I and the Swedish Democrats believe that it is absolutely essential that the online platforms must be regarded as information infrastructure. They are not and cannot be considered publicists. On this basis, we believe that the dominant network platforms must be subject to the principle of counter-obligation, which legally prohibits the denial of contracts or the denial of performance without objective grounds. Therefore, all natural and legal persons must have the right to create a verified account on equal terms, i.e. an account in which the sender identifies itself to the platform holder. As long as this is not the case, one might actually wonder how much our basic freedom of expression law really is worth. Mr. Old President! Transparency about how algorithms affect dissemination based on content needs to be increased. Under no circumstances should they be adjusted according to political values so that certain politicians or political parties are unduly favoured or disadvantaged. The starting point must also be that only content that is illegal under Swedish law should be subject to moderation or removal. It is also important that it is the individual statement that is subject to intervention, not the user account. It is quite common for people to be suspended on very strange and vague grounds. So-called shadow-banning or shadow-baning, that is, that the user without knowledge is subject to digital restrictions in order to be able to spread certain content needs, we mean, simply to be illegal. It is important that the individual be given good legal certainty vis-à-vis platform holders, who are considered vital information infrastructure. For the functioning of democracy, it is particularly important that political opinion-forming has a very strong support in our legislation. Freedom of expression, of opinion and of information are three of the absolute foundations of democracy. If we cannot use these freedoms in practice, free elections become a false illusion.
i-5FMjwPLZzdbo5GjfFxvC96	Mr. Old President! My party colleague, Mr Ekström, will be dealing with the parts of the report relating to media policy, journalists and the current investigation into the media support system. I will therefore touch on a couple of other parts of the report here. The first, Mr. Old President, is about the importance of freedom of communication. The so-called notice protection consists of several parts: freedom of communication, freedom of purchase, right to anonymity, prohibition of research and prohibition of repression. Consignment protection applies in relation to authorities and other general bodies. Freedom of association means that everyone has the right to provide information on any subject for publication in the media covered by the Freedom of the Press and the Freedom of Expression Act. These are therefore some of the absolute crown jewels of Swedish democracy. There are limits to this freedom too. In certain exceptional cases, for example, an informant may be punished for his or her reporting. These include, for example, cases where the disclosure of information involves certain serious breaches of national security and the disclosure of a public document subject to confidentiality. However, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the report before us, the KU33, deals with proposals for freedom of communication for all employees in tax-funded activities, that is to say, employees of private companies active in the field of health care, care and other welfare. We Social Democrats believe that freedom of communication is of the utmost importance both for the good of the business and for the effective use of tax money. Freedom of association is crucial for the detection of abuses affecting individual citizens, for the prevention of corruption and for improving the working conditions of employees – to mention just a few examples that show why freedom of communication is so important. Over the years, the media have revealed several examples where managers of private companies in welfare, for which we are jointly paying, have tried to silence or conceal abuses and where the tax money, instead of going to the business, has gone to enrich owners and managers. That is unacceptable. Mr. Old President! It is only with light that darkness can be cast out, but then it must be allowed to light the lamp, that is to say, to reveal abuses. It is allowed in the public sector. And we Social Democrats believe that this must of course also apply in private companies within the tax-funded welfare. There too the light must shine. Trying to put order in the secrecy and waste of tax money in private companies in welfare is a high priority for us. Foam business has got to go. Already in the last parliamentary term, the S-led Government initiated, and rowed on, a reform which means that more people are now covered by the protection and can expose abuses. According to the Act(2017:151) on the protection of whistleblowers in certain individual activities, employees, contractors and others who participate on a similar basis in professionally conducted individual activities within school, health and social care, which are to some extent publicly funded, are now given the corresponding right as public employees to provide information about the activities for publication in media covered by TF or YGL. This was a clear pledge from us Social Democrats in the 2014 elections, and we delivered on it already during the last parliamentary term. There are some limitations in the law, but it is a big step forward compared to what it was like earlier under the government of Reinfeldt and the Alliance, when this did not exist. Following our legislative change that we pushed through last term of office, we have also continued work on freedom of communication in tax-funded activities. For example, the investigation into strengthening the protection of private employees in activities that are wholly or partly publicly funded has carried out important work. Its proposals are now being prepared in the Government Office. The commission of the investigation was to propose how to introduce enhanced protection for private employees in activities that are wholly or partly publicly funded; it involved activities other than school, health and social services. Mr. Old President! It is also with reference to this study that the KU rejects the Liberals' motions on the subject, as the committee does not want to anticipate the preparation of the Government Office. We Social Democrats, Mr President-in-Office, naturally support the committee's proposal for a decision, but in this way we welcome the commitment of Liberals to freedom of communication for all employees in tax-funded activities. We look forward to further work in a common spirit on this. Mr. Old President! The second theme I would like to highlight is the KU's treatment of issues relating to the so-called tech giants. These are urgent issues that affect the vast majority of Swedes in one way or another. As before, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs wishes to stress the importance of safeguarding the constitutional freedom of information and expression and advocates solutions based primarily on voluntary action. In committee, we have noted that a number of measures have been taken within the European Union to combat misinformation on the Internet. We have also noted in particular the proposal for a regulation on a single market for digital services currently being negotiated within the Union, which aims, inter alia, to adapt and harmonise liability rules for the major social media platforms and to ensure transparency and respect for fundamental rights in a digital environment. In the light of work under way in the EU, the KU is not prepared today to take any action in response to the motions on this subject. We Social Democrats in this House are behind the committee's proposals and will continue to monitor these issues closely. Mr. Old President! To conclude, I only have to ask for approval of the committee's proposal as a whole.
i-RXvsPuvJ9Mymfj7LuWmAx2	Mr. Old President! I intend to focus on freedom of expression online. I think that is the most important thing in the report as a whole, and I do not have time to mention the second. I will begin by looking at what the situation has become. We can look back 200 years in time, when industrialism came into the world. At the time, the market economy was completely unregulated. It took quite a long time, but after 100 years you noticed that it didn't work. It was seen that the big companies were just getting bigger and bigger. They joined forces and formed oligopolies and, at worst, monopolies. What was noticed then was that when a company is so large that it has a monopoly or is part of a trust, i.e. an oligopoly with other companies, it can put the whole market out of play. Then you can take whatever prices you want from consumers and set what wages you want for employees. There, the free market is completely out of control. Then something called competition laws was introduced to divide trusts. Now we can see on the internet a similar situation with the tech giants. It has to do with the nature of the Internet. The Internet strives for large devices. You want to be on a social platform where everyone else is. You don't want a lot of different search engines, but you gather around one and the same because it's easier for everyone like that. With the fact that we have today left the paper papers, this has led to anyone who wants to come out with opinions such as politicians or opinion-formers having to go through these platforms. There's no other way out. Then you hear arguments like: They are private companies. If you are not allowed to speak on that platform, start your own platform! But that is an absurd argument. It is like Fortum, who owns all of Sweden's electricity infrastructure, would suddenly raise its tariffs by 1 000 percent, and then you would say to customers who complain: If you do not want to pay, just build your own electricity line! It doesn't work that way. The market must be regulated and this must also be regulated. We have fought for our freedom of expression for centuries. The spirit of the fundamental laws of freedom of expression we have is quite clear: we should not restrict freedom of expression as long as what is said is not illegal. But the Freedom of the Press Act is created for newspapers or pamphlets that are distributed. It is not created for the situation we now have with these great tech giants. The motivation for the rejection of our exercise in this area says that the EU is looking at how to come to an agreement on a voluntary basis with the tech giants. The main thing you talk about is being able to remove misinformation; you mention very little about how to protect freedom of expression. I do not believe that, at the beginning of industrialism, companies could have been persuaded to refrain from creating monopolies on a voluntary basis. Equally difficult I think it is to try to negotiate with the tech giants and tell them how important freedom of expression is. I believe that there must be strong legislation. Of course, things that are illegal – child pornography, incitement to ethnic groups, slander or very gross insults – should be removed. But we cannot have a situation different from that of freedom of expression in streets and squares. People must have opinions, and just as in streets and squares there must be freedom of opinion and freedom of expression also on the Internet. I can understand that the private companies have their terms of use, where they say they do not want pornography, advertising for alcohol to children, and so on. That is a completely different matter, because it is not about opinions. But you shouldn't be able to shut out opinions. As things stand today, the big tech companies can influence the outcome of a choice. They can favor one candidate and censor the other. It is private, large multinationals that have gained this power. There are also companies which, although listed and private, are governed by states, in one case by a dictatorship, namely the Chinese Communist Party. Is it really reasonable that we should negotiate with them on what our freedom of expression should look like? I do not understand that there are any more protesters against this. This is absolutely vital to democracy. If we do not have freedom of expression, then in the end we do not have democracy either. Having said that, I am in favour of our reservation on this matter, reservation number 7.
i-XfqsZHp4b1cGWwzfKi2kC7	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Mikael Strandman, for your speech and for your commitment to these issues! As I mentioned, we Social Democrats really believe that these issues are important. The so-called tech giants and the environment on the Internet concern us all, as the honourable Member also described it. It affects our environment, what we do about the days, who we meet, who we do not meet and how the conversational climate is. Now this is called a line, but I still want to see it as an opportunity to discuss these issues. After all, as the Constitutional Committee has noted, there is work going on in the European Union on these issues. It aims to harmonise liability rules, ensure transparency and respect for fundamental rights – i.e. issues raised by Mikael Strandman and other colleagues here. My question is: why not use the opportunity available to influence a common regulatory framework on these issues? What is problematic about the work that is going on, where we from the Swedish side have every opportunity to influence? We here in Parliament and in the committees also have that chance.
i-Bjki5qN7uzR2gcvKxKipn2	Mr. Old President! I can tell you straight away what is the problem with the work that is going on. The problem is not the discussion about removing things that are illegal, because that discussion is great. The problem is, however, that in addition to this, there is talk of things that are harmful. Who decides what is harmful? Are the tech giants gonna decide that? Suppose someone says, for example, that the corona virus comes from a lab. A year and a half ago, it was a conspiracy theory. Today it is one of the established theories that one has: that the corona virus came from a lab. Do you not understand what it will mean for freedom of expression if one leaves it to the private multinationals or to Tiktok, which is governed by the Chinese Communist Party in the background, to say what is harmful? There must be strong legislation which says that it is in fact free to express one's views as long as they are not illegal. We have comprehensive legislation, about incitement to ethnic groups, slanders and other things, which clearly tells us what is illegal. Then, of course, they will remove it. But all my warning bells ring when I see you add an expression of what's harmful.
i-X38oXoejMM8fyLDcGRFjJF	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Mikael Strandman, for the answer! Nevertheless, I would like to try to make the point that there is a real possibility, together with other countries, of hooking arms and ensuring that strong legislation is put in place to harmonise liability rules, to ensure transparency and to move forward on this issue. You ask: Who should decide what to publish? I am sure of one thing, and that is that I do not think it is the Swedish Democrats who should decide it. It is not at all a party in this House that should decide it, but we must do it together. The process that exists for this, in which we, together with other countries, participate, is the process within the European Union. There we have every chance in the world to influence. Social media and tech platforms are global phenomena. Then we need to tackle this jointly, internationally, in cooperation with other countries. This is where it gets interesting. How will the Swedish Democrats solve this, alone on our plot on earth? We need to do this with others.
i-E2gbFTjKGXtDAD6ArD7raY	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Laila, for your answer! First of all, I would like to say that it is not just us Swedish democrats who are pushing this issue. I guess there's a lot of people around the world pushing the question. But I would like to come back to this once again by talking about what is harmful and that it is politicians and the power that should decide it. What should not be on platforms is illegal. It should be the same situation on the media platforms as it is on streets and squares. We have freedom of speech. We have freedom of opinion. As long as you stick to it and don't commit anything illegal, I'll let you out. Otherwise, power will define in different ways what is harmful. It is usually opinions of the opposition that are harmful, that are misinformation and that are untrue. That's how it's been all along in history. We've been fighting for freedom of speech for centuries. Let us not remove it now, Laila, by introducing diffuse writings about harmless and such! Let us stick to what is illegal, on which we can agree.
i-NMyWSz3aKccYYSdWF8bsbf	Mr. Old President! Democracy requires a square where opinions meet. For a long time this square has been not only the physical encounter of, for example, peoples' movements or churches, but also the discussion in the media. This applies to public services as well as national and local newspapers. Free newspapers, too, have now come to play a role, for example in metropolitan areas where there are poor local media. Digital development and changing media habits are a challenge, as is the development that more and more advertising revenue is being lost to the recently debated international online giants, such as Facebook and Google. The old business model is no longer working. The government has appointed an investigator, Mats Svegfors, who is highly qualified and respected throughout the political field. It is very important that we can reach a broad agreement on how media support should be organised forward. New media support must be technology neutral. New media support must ensure that the whole country is reached by journalistic coverage. This is about the squares of democracy – no more, no less. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-2WFwXDxKscjAG273mpJvDp	Mr. Old President! I take a few things insubordinate that I find interesting to discuss further. It was said here a little bit from other parties that the important thing is to counteract misinformation on the social platforms. My colleague, Mr Strandman, also discussed this. What is disinformation? Who decides that? I, as a Swedish democrat, of course think that all the other parties are responsible for errors, and I have full respect for the fact that everyone in this House believes that I am responsible for a lot of errors, which, by extension, if we were to disseminate it, could be seen as misinformation. If we stick to the concept of disinformation being about pressure campaigns from foreign power, hybrid warfare and such things, I do not think there are any dividing lines here. But let us say that we are beginning to point out individual users, perhaps a group of individual users, who are closing in on an issue which the sitting power considers to be incorrect, i.e. misinformation. How will the platforms react to that? In my world, we cannot have any other definition of what must be said and what must not be said than what applies under our fundamental law of freedom of expression. That must be the base. I'm very worried when I see Morgan Johansson and other ministers decide meetings with Facebook and Twitter and other social platforms to agree on how to deal with hate and threats. After all, these ministers are not neutral in their purpose, especially with regard to the party S. I think most political scientists agree with me that S is not driven by principles but by self-interest. I am not satisfied that one should sit and arbitrarily negotiate with the net giants. This must be formulated in legislation and regulations, and the freedom of expression law of Sweden should be applied.
i-Kya3o1neYMS2qjV1DQM7PG	Mr. Old President! I live in Älvsbyn, a place on the border between Norrbotten's densely populated coastal area and Norrbotten's more sparsely populated hinterland. I have two children who both go to primary school in Älvsbyn. In the municipality there are just over 8,000 inhabitants. In the central town there is a school that teaches for middle school and a school that teaches for secondary school. In 2020, the municipality of Älvsbyn paid more than SEK 111,000 per pupil in comprehensive school. 25% of the adult population of working age has been educated at college or university. Anyone who travels less than 100 km south from Älvsbyn can end up in this city, in Stockholm. In this municipality, there are almost 1 million people. There are 41 school leaders to choose from – if you only count those starting with the letter A. More than 60 per cent of the adult population of working age have an academic education, and the municipality's costs are almost 22 per cent higher per pupil than in Älvsbyn. It takes no vivid imagination to imagine that my children in Älvsbyn and their peers in Stockholm get quite different conditions. The principals have different conditions for organising their training. We Social Democrats believe that children, regardless of whether they grow up in Älvsbyn or Stockholm, regardless of which parents have happened to bring them into the world and regardless of who happens to own the school they attend, should be given equal opportunities for a good education. Equal opportunities require different resources, different support and incentives. It must be adapted to both structural differences and individuals. With supervision, however, it is another matter. There, children's equal opportunities call for supervision to be as similar as possible. That is why the legislative proposal that we are debating today is also absolutely necessary. Mr. Old President! Supervision is a matter of compliance. Ultimately, supervision is about guaranteeing all children and students a school that lives up to the rules that we have decided should apply. The supervisory authority, usually the School Inspectorate, therefore needs as similar tools as possible to intervene when this does not happen, regardless of who is the principal of the studied education. With this bill, we are introducing an opportunity for the regulator to close even publicly owned businesses that have repeatedly shown serious maladministration. A supervisory authority may, within two years of a decision on an injunction relating to a serious breach, take a decision on more intervention if the same or another irregularity appears again. More intervention measures, i.e. those on the top stage of the sanctioning ladder, can be withdrawal in the case of stand-alone activities, operating bans or state remedies, which in principle means that the state takes over control of a school. Both revocation and prohibition of activities have the consequence that a school must be closed down. The new rules also slightly lower the bar for what is required for a regulatory authority to close down an operation. The supervisory authority must retain the possibility to decide on state remedies, since it is the municipalities that are responsible for providing all pupils with a place of school and the obligation to ensure that everyone has the opportunity to fulfil their school duties. A decision to close a municipal school has too severe consequences for the municipality's ability to meet that obligation. In the case of my children, at home in Älvsbyn, there is, for example, no or at best, any occasional baldness that, in the event of a prohibition decision, would have to receive a large number of students. Mr. Old President! We strive to govern with trust. We want the pros to be pros. This means that we are convinced that teachers and principals, not politicians, are those who know best how teaching and learning should be organised and conducted. Of course, the state, with its resources and expert authorities, has much to contribute to supporting the work of professionals, and in confident governance support is more important than supervision. Yet we stand here debating proposals to give more muscle to the supervisory authorities. If only we had a school system that guaranteed that it was always the students' learning and development that was put first, the conditions might have been better to govern with trust. But the system is not like that. There are school leaders who prioritise the owners' financial gain over students' learning. There are schools that opt out of students who are costly to have in the business. There are schools that advocate a different set of values than those laid down in the school law and curriculum. And as long as we have a system that makes these deviations possible, supervision is a necessary, perhaps even supporting, element of governance. It is easy to agree with Daniel Riazats's wording in the Left Party's reservation against today's decision. I also think that a school inspection that constantly needs to become more powerful is a symptom that something is wrong in the school system and that the state has abandoned the school's educational assignments to actors that the state increasingly needs to control and intervene more strongly against. ..................................................... That is why we want to regain democratic control of welfare. But as it is now, with a market system in which school groups take over in the name of profit and where money leaks to everything from Somali terrorist groups to anonymous venture capitalists in distant countries, supervision must be a powerful tool. Mr. Old President! As the rules are currently written, a school must start no later than two years from the date on which it is granted permission. But there is no regulation of what happens if a school does not start. The school inspectorate can only revoke a permit if the school has had repeated serious abuses. Therefore, we are introducing a new rule that allows authorising authorities to withdraw a permit to operate if the activity to which the permit relates has not started or has not been carried out for two years. It is a perfectly reasonable provision, not least because it becomes very uncertain to other principals what potential student data is available for their activities if someone has been authorised to carry out an activity that does not happen. Legislation cannot cover all eventualities. Therefore, an authorising authority shall nevertheless be allowed to refrain from withdrawing an authorisation where there are special reasons. Mr. Old President! In conclusion, it is crucial for Swedish schools that students have as equal opportunities as possible. The best way would be to fix a broken and unfair system so that we could focus on support and let the professionals be pros. But the system we now have requires supervision. The students then deserve that the supervisory authorities have strong and as equal powers as possible, regardless of whether their school is located in Stockholm or in Älvsbyn and for that matter regardless of who owns their school. The Social Democrats, of course, support all their reservations in the report, but for time to come, I only call for reservations 4 and 8.
i-EnK7mjbWGebYfHRPQo5Lsz	Mr. Old President! With more than 16 000 pupils who do not pass upper secondary school qualifications, when every other teacher in primary and secondary school has been subjected to violence and with an extreme shortage of qualified teachers throughout the country, the parliamentary parties should agree that the review of quality, working environment and safety is of tremendous importance. Moreover, when the general crisis situation in the country's schools is combined with religious fanatics and economic criminals who are allowed to conduct school activities, one should be able to expect from their government that the will to strengthen the investigating authority is great. Unfortunately, that is not the case today, Mr. Old President. On the other hand, a majority of the committee has an ambition to force the government to strengthen the School Inspectorate's mission with more both notified and unannounced inspections. We also expect the School Inspectorate to have a thorough follow-up of the principals to remedy the deficiencies that have been mentioned and that written reporting from the principals can only be done as an exception rather than as a rule. If the principals fail to comply with the School Act, this shall never be accepted. It will now apply to both independent and municipal schools. Mr. Old President! The Moderates welcome the proposals in the bill Increased opportunities to close schools with serious shortcomings. We think it is a good thing that a new foundation for the closure of schools should be introduced through the possibility for the supervisory authority to impose an operating ban. This will be a good addition to today's provisions on withdrawals of authorisation and suspensions of activities. On the other hand, we do not have more powerful legislative proposals on how to overcome obvious rogue actors. It is not reasonable that, in relation to the specific authorisation to carry out activities, it is possible today for an operator or an individual who has received an authorisation to withdraw de facto an application for a new authorisation for the conduct of school activities. If a principal has mismanaged his/her duties by breaching the law, if the responsible authority has found serious deficiencies in the operation or if the principal has been deemed unfit under the rules for ownership and management trials, it shall not be possible to apply for new permits. As the representative of the Social Democrats has said before, it is important that rogue actors should no longer operate in any way. It is therefore particularly gratifying that the government here takes account of municipal activities that mismanage their mission. Mr. Old President! The bill is good but not enough. That is why I would like to support reservation 3.
i-88sFLzcnfJKzkJnCTLkr6U	Mr. Old President! The proposals in the bill are welcome. At present, as we have already noted, it is not possible to force a municipal activity to close down because of serious maladministration. The increased possibility for the state in practice to go into the management level of municipal activities and solve serious problems is in line with the opinion of the Swedish democrats on this issue, not least when it comes to moving the responsibility for the quality of school education closer to the state. We also share the view that regulatory regulation that is equal for all principals, at least as far as possible, contributes to a more equivalent level of education. However, this is about problems that we have been able to see in school for a long time. It is therefore remarkable that proposals are being made for greater opportunities to close schools with serious shortcomings only now. Harder scrutiny or equal conditions for independent municipal schools, security issues and so on are issues that we Swedish democrats have pushed since we entered the Riksdag – often for deaf ears. Therefore, this bill is a step in the right direction. Mr. Old President! The Government is now presenting a proposal that simplifies the possibility of imposing an operating ban. According to the proposal, the School Inspectorate will be able to decide on a temporary operating ban if it is likely that the Authority will subsequently take such a decision. The proposal covers – as we have already noted – both municipal and individual principals. This is important because municipal authorities have previously been exempt. We welcome this. But – and this is important – there is a golden opportunity to at the same time make a legal commitment that an operating ban should comply with the individual who has received it, regardless of whether it is in the capacity of the Vice-Chancellor, principal or board member. The aim is to prevent the person from being authorised to operate, open or take over another school activity. A clear example of the importance of actually introducing such a rule was given to us last autumn. It was when they reported on the Römosse schools in Gothenburg. The School Inspectorate announced at the end of October that it intended to close the schools. This would happen because the association that runs the schools had a lack of control and supervision of the activities and showed serious economic mismanagement. Among other things, fake invoices had been used to pass on millions of dollars to Islamists in Somalia. It must also have been carried over several million to a company that, among other things, has links to an individual who, according to Säpo, poses a threat to national security. In addition, the School Inspectorate has assessed that several of the board members of the association are unfit to continue their school activities. Despite this, it was only a few days before we could read at the beginning of November that the board members of the association, who were considered unfit to conduct the Römosse schools, had opened a new school in Rågsved in southern Stockholm. If I have understood correctly, one of the people behind the school in Rågsved, i.e. the school that was previously located in the school premises that was forced to close after the School Inspectorate found serious shortcomings in teaching, grading and finance, was part of the group of people who started the new school. This is up the walls. Of course, I share the view of the Moderates on this issue that it is not reasonable that the problems should not be addressed. That's remarkable. I don't know if everyone is as old as me, but I'd like to look like this to The Twilight Zone – a television series that went once upon a time. It's almost like an episode taken from the little crazy show. But it is not, but it is Sweden 2021 – 2022. It is not sufficient that the suitability assessment previously drafted by the Government may affect the decision, i.e. whether the applicant has previously been running an activity whose approval has been withdrawn, whether the activity has been carried out illegally or whether there have been serious deficiencies in the operation in the supervision. Such a system is neither adequate nor appropriate. Therefore, the Government's proposal should be supplemented by an operating ban that should comply with the individual, i.e. the Vice-Chancellor, principal or board member. Everything else is completely unreasonable. Mr. Old President! Furthermore, the so-called two-year rule, and the possibility of derogation from it, needs to be clarified. The proposal itself admits that there are situations where an individual principal has a legitimate need not to pursue all or part of the activity for a period of more than two years. This can occur in the absence of student documentation for a shorter period, for example when you have not been able to start a certain grade. We also note that there seems to be some kind of arbitrariness in this kind of assessment. In the bill you talk about special reasons. But I would say that it is unclear what the specific reasons really mean. There are also several referrals to this effect. That is why we want clarification in the legislation. What does this rule mean? The exceptions should generally be possible in circumstances beyond the school's control, and special consideration should be given to the preservation of schools in sparsely populated areas. Otherwise, the two-year rule risks hitting particularly hard against small, often parent-driven, free schools that have arisen when municipalities have decided to close a school in sparsely populated areas. Mr. Old President! During the period 2014 – 2019, the Swedish School Inspectorate has reportedly withdrawn approval or decided on state remedies in nine cases. According to the bill, the new rules are only estimated to lead to slightly more decisions on withdrawals or operating bans or state remedies. We also note that the proposal to tighten up supervision reflects its absence in the proposal. We regret that. Of course, we believe – as the previous speaker also mentioned – that the School Inspectorate should be given the task of better monitoring the measures that the school should take after a decision on an injunction for deficiencies. Otherwise, the proposal risks becoming a blow to the air. It is not least about making more unannounced visits. I have looked at this issue. During 2019 two unannounced inspections were carried out. Actually, I didn't find any in 2020. I'll leave it unsaid, but it looks like you didn't do any at all. It's far too little. These opportunities must be increased. You should not call in advance and say that you should come when there is a need to investigate suspicions of serious deficiencies. It shall be unannounced. For me, that goes without saying. That is why the proposal on the table today is inadequate. I request the approval of reservation 3.
i-36W32x81Nv4bvphJRrzSzQ	Mr. Old President! I would like to start with a small reminder: what we are discussing today is actually the absolute emergency brake in the school system. Every time you pull the emergency brake, it's because you haven't steered right from the beginning. Actually, that's where we need to focus. Of course we should have an emergency brake, but the important thing is that we control the right things in everyday life. We must not forget that. The emergency brake must be something that is used very rarely. It's only supposed to be when it's absolutely necessary. What we really need to focus on is the early efforts. It applies to students, but it also applies to the whole school. It is absolutely important to be able to close a school when needed. It is very important that we can intervene from the state when schools are not as they should be. Several have already been mentioned here, such as Römosse School. Storvretskolan is also an example where the state has been allowed to go in. It is important that we can intervene but also that we do not have to intervene, because it has enormous consequences for students when a school is closed. It has enormous consequences. The local school system has a very difficult time collecting it. We have seen this locally in Malmö, where I come from. It's good that we come from different places in the country. There we have seen that when schools are closed and those students come out to other schools around them, it has often had huge effects on those schools, and the students have not always had the benefits of that happening. What we risk in addition to the huge consequences for students is that this can be used as an excuse. We have seen this in Social Democratic Malmö. Instead of solving the problems, schools have been closed. That must not be the case. We have to remember that this is really an emergency brake and that we are going to do everything we can not get there. So what can we do not get there? Well, there are several things we can do. These are generally good rules proposed in this report. One thing that is important is that the School Inspectorate is given greater responsibility for supervision even in the independent schools. Today we have separated it so that the School Inspectorate has some and the municipal part. It's not a good solution. It is very important that the School Inspectorate has the same transparency opportunities and can do the same in both parts. Another change that is under way and that was also part of the January agreement is that we should be better at having continuous discussions about development and demands with the different principals so that it does not happen that the state first does nothing and then comes and closes. Instead, we're supposed to stay inside and influence all the time. It's the way we all learn. There are very few of us who are allowed to do what we want without anyone helping us to get better, and then suddenly one comes and strikes us. This is probably not the best way for us to learn, nor is it for the principals. Instead, let us introduce continuous development and demands through the dialogues that are now to be started between the school authorities and the individual heads around the country! It's much better than sudden shutdowns, so let's focus on it! Several have mentioned this with strengthened ownership management testing. If it is an owner or someone in the school's management who wants a new permit, today you can say that, what you did at Römosseskolan was perhaps not something that we want to see elsewhere, so you cannot get a new permit. These opportunities now exist, and they must be used. There is one thing that I really want to include and that is a little missing when it comes to when the state is going to intervene if the school is not doing what it is supposed to do. It's that we have great opportunities for the Swedish School Inspectorate to go in and act if you don't have the right process, if you don't have the right words in the documents and if it doesn't look nice. But we don't do anything if the kids don't learn anything. When it comes to actual learning, if the students do not come to the level of knowledge they should, the School Inspectorate does not go in and say, "This is not good enough." Here I can come back to what my Socialist colleague said earlier – that with the system we now have, supervision is needed. Yeah, well, it does. We have schools, municipal schools, in Malmö where less than half of the students have been eligible for upper secondary school every year for ten years. But when the school inspectorate comes, you give the green light on everything. So it is not just about the independent schools. It is also very much about the municipal schools. Both must be attacked—not evil, but we must go to the problems wherever they are. It annoys me a little to hear Social Democrats and, in part, left-wing parties talking about the documents that lie at the root here as if these are problems that are linked only to independent schools. They are absolutely connected to independent schools. We hear the Moderates highlight independent schools. We hear the Swedish Democrats highlight independent schools. But the Social Democrats pretend that municipal schools do not have problems. We can't have this. There are problems everywhere, and we have to go to them no matter who is the main man. In fact, we must do this out of respect for the students, regardless of which school they attend. One thing that we particularly highlight in this context is what to do if you now shut down, if there is a risk that a school needs to be closed down. Many of the independent schools have a fairly large proportion of local pupils. Perhaps it is time to see if these places can be used if you close a school, whether it is municipal or independent. That's the part we think you should look at. To conclude, I would like to support reservation 5.
i-34RJiwiphxYWksfRmzhLZL	Mr. Old President! The Left Party wants to create an equal and cohesive school. Knowledge is a democratic right and not a commodity. The Left Party therefore wants a jointly funded and democratically managed school where the needs are what governs the design and governance of the Swedish school. We welcome some of the government's proposals in the bill, one which increases the possibility of closing down certain schools with serious shortcomings. For too long, the Swedish school market has contributed to the erosion of the Swedish school system and led to less equivalence and equality. The market school has broken down, Mr President-in-Office, and this is not only due to the deterioration of the quality of the individual activities. It has also helped to make it impossible for many municipalities to lay down a long-term plan for the municipality's schools. The proposals in the bill will not put an end to this, but the issues are closely linked. However, the proposal contains a specific part dealing with one of the points of the now non-existent January Agreement, paragraph 49, about being able to close municipal schools in the same way as private schools. The proposal in the bill reads as follows: a state school inspection must be able to prohibit a municipality or a region from pursuing an activity if an injunction to remedy deficiencies has not been complied with, and the malpractice is serious. The School Inspectorate shall be able to decide that the decision on an operating ban applies despite the fact that it has not been given legal force. ..................................................... This is something we in the Left Party reject. The bill also makes it clear that the supervisory authority responsible, i.e. the State's school inspection, may, under certain conditions, already impose an operating ban on a municipal school. Such a decision shall apply immediately and shall be valid for a maximum period of six months. In addition, the government states that in order for individuals and public authorities to be treated as equally as possible, a system should be introduced with the possibility of a ban on the activities of municipal schools. Such a scheme means that the municipality or region may be prohibited from carrying out the activity in question without a shorter time limit. In practice, the result of a ban on the closure of the activities covered by the decision is, in the same way as the withdrawal of an authorisation in respect of an activity carried out by an individual principal. ..................................................... Mr. Old President! In this respect, the Government takes no account of the fact that the private school companies do not have the same extensive tasks as the municipalities. A municipality is obliged to offer all children schooling. Private operators are not obliged to do so, for which they rarely take responsibility. The National Association of Teachers states in its referral that, in the event of serious maladministration, municipal primary schools should be placed under state compulsory administration for six months instead of being closed down. We agree with this and believe that it should also apply to upper secondary school. The Teachers' Association rightly points out that the state must take the main responsibility for equivalence, resources and quality in order not to require ever more stringent control and tougher intervention and for the principals to offer students an acceptable education. We believe, like the Teachers' Union, that a school inspection that constantly needs to become more powerful is a symptom of something that is wrong in the school system and that the state has abandoned the school's training assignments to actors that the same state later needs to control more and more strongly against. Mr. Old President! In addition to our agreement in the Left Party with the National Federation of Teachers and the Federation of Teachers, we agree with the critical views received from several stakeholders as well as some of the suggestions made by those who have been given the opportunity to submit referrals. Several consultation bodies, including the municipality of Gothenburg, have pointed out that a system where the prohibition of activities is a first-hand solution lacks a student's perspective, as it means that students are pulled out of their everyday lives even if other alternatives had been better. The municipality of Sollentuna proposes that if the deficiency does not refer to serious maladministration linked to the current school environment or building, the pupils should be able to remain at the school unit in question while the entire school management is replaced instead. The municipality of Botkyrka considers that the consequences of the proposal are not sufficiently illustrated, as the municipality has a responsibility to provide education. Stockholm Municipality rejects the proposal on the grounds that the consequences are disproportionate to the purpose. The municipality of Malmö notes that the lack of practice and assessment of the consequences of existing legislation makes it difficult to assess whether there is a need to replace existing regulation. Moreover, as the Law Council and several consultation bodies have pointed out, this draft law is not based on the fact that there have been any concrete cases that highlighted the need to allow the permanent closure of municipal schools beyond what the law already allows. The school inspectorate should therefore not, we believe, be given increased opportunities to close schools with public authorities. Mr. Old President! Finally, I can conclude by saying that when the Social Democrats were included in the January agreement, they always referred to that very agreement when introducing a bourgeois school policy. Now that agreement is no longer there, but the Social Democrats continue to put forward proposals that are fully in line with an agreement that they have rejected. S-member Linus Sköld said earlier from the speaker's chair that a broken system needs to be fixed. When the problems have become so big that it is the system that has problems, it is not possible to fix them, but it is a change of system that is needed to solve the problems. Mr Paarup-Petersen-Petersen, C-member, was earlier in the speaker's chair talking about the fact that this actually means that we have failed and that we need to have tougher legislation. I fully agree with the honourable Member's speech from here on this point. But one might ask why the Center Party and Niels Paarup-Petersen-Petersen are behind a system that has failed and refuses to change this system. It is a system where education becomes a commodity and where children are seen as customers. The S-member stood in the speaker's chair and specifically mentioned a free school with confessional elements. The owners of this school have committed crimes. Let me be very clear, Mr. Age President: The Left Party is the only party in the Swedish Parliament that believes that no school should be conducted on the basis of secular religious grounds. We are the only party that believes that neither the existing schools nor the schools that want to establish themselves should be able to do so. Having said that, it is funny when the Swedish Democrats only criticise one type of school, namely the schools that happen to have Muslim heads. When the International English School is noticed to measure students' skirts and force female employees to wear high heels – if they don't want it, they must have a medical certificate – Richard Jomshof and the Swedish Democrats sit quietly. They run business and these actors' affairs – not children's. When the Swedish Democrats criticise an actor who has committed illegal acts, it is not because they are against this system. The Swedish Democrats are the reason why these schools are allowed to remain in Sweden today. Having said that, Mr President-in-Office, I would like to endorse the Left Party's reservation 1.
i-DvseADnMiE75DTw61c5uDy	Mr. Old President! I can begin by saying that the honourable Member of the Left Party misunderstood what I said. It is not the first time that this has happened, but this time I understood that it was not on purpose. I certainly think it is a failure when this type of legislation is needed. In particular, I think it is a failure when it needs to be used. I think it's a failure when a school has come to a level where the best thing you can do for the students is shut it down. I think everyone agrees that you have failed a lot then. What the honourable Member understood before was that I would think that this is something that is only needed because we have the school system that we have today. That is certainly not the case. I would think that this was needed whether there were independent schools or not. I come from a municipality where this really has been needed for a really long time. At the third meeting, I think, which I attended in Parliament after I was elected, I asked the Swedish National Agency for Education: Why do you accept that there are so many schools where the students do not survive just because they are municipal? At the fourth meeting it was the School Inspectorate who was there. I asked: How can you not do anything when there are so many municipal schools where the students do not succeed? Why are you letting them go? We are definitely going to the independent schools, but why don't you go to the municipal schools too? A year or two passed; then the government finally took hold of actually doing something so that municipal schools could get corrections. Yeah, it's a failure when we get there. But it is not the International English School's fault that Värner Rydénskolan in Malmö has delivered poor results for ten years. I know you'd like that to be the answer, Daniel Riazat, but that's not the world.
i-35VwWunFurc9f6SiJnSRWj	Mr. Old President! Member Niels Paarup-Petersen-Petersen talks about the fact that I have misunderstood and that we had seen these problems regardless of whether the marketing school had existed or not, whether or not we had had a system that makes it more difficult for municipalities to conduct school activities or not, and whether or not we had a system that sees pupils and children as customers, that is segregated and that leads to greater inequality in society or not. Then one might ask: Why was this need not there before the market school was introduced? And why wasn't this problem before, among others, the Center Party got so much space in Swedish politics that the party has had in recent years? The Center Party is currently in control of 199 of 290 municipalities in Sweden. The Center Party is by far the party that is in charge of most municipalities, Mr. President of the Age. There is talk of municipal schools failing in various activities and not succeeding in getting students to pass grades. It is also possible to ask the question: Why is the Center Party involved in cutting down on the Swedish school in the majority of the 199 municipalities that it is in charge? Instead of providing resources, why do they want to remove resources from the Swedish school? These are questions to which Mr Paarup-Petersen-Petersen and the Center Party do not have answers. Therefore, we will hear in the reply that Niels Paarup-Petersen-Petersen wants to shift the focus from bourgeois policy of cutting back and from the market school to trying to put the municipal school on an equal footing with independent actors and the market school. This is not the case – the municipality has another responsibility for the school. The municipality has been given an increasingly difficult task, and it is because of the market school and the bourgeois policy of cutting down that Niels Paarup-Petersen-Petersen represents.
i-YYicuUWkFLkrqQrzgHUBPr	Mr. Old President! I guess I didn't exactly get an answer to my question. But I can thank you for reminding me of how much the Center Party has to say. I'd like to remind you of that. In eight or nine months, you can make sure it stays that way. Much gets better that way. You say, "Why wasn't the need before?" But it did! It's just no one was watching. That's the problem. We have much better control today of how the students in Swedish school are doing than we had 20 years ago. You don't have to look in old newspapers very much before you can read about segregation issues, children who don't succeed etcetera. It's nothing new. This does not mean that the establishment of an independent school cannot affect the municipal school. It certainly can. I think you've heard me talk about it in different contexts before, too. The problem is this: the fact that the municipalities have a different responsibility does not mean that they can say that they have no responsibility. This is what happens every time. Yes, the Center Party has responsibilities in a huge number of municipalities. If those schools don't deliver, I think the municipality, of which the Center Party is a part, has a great responsibility for that. If this happens in Malmö, where the Social Democrats rule, often with the support of the Left Party, I think they have a great responsibility. If it's an independent school, I think the principal of that school has a great responsibility. This isn't very difficult. Those in charge have responsibilities. I think so, whether it's an independent school or a municipal school. You like it that way if it's an independent school, but if it's a municipal school, it's fine. I don't think so. I'm sorry, Mr. Old President. I told you so many times. I deeply regret that. For example, the Center Party in Malmö has spent SEK 100 million more than the red government has at the school. It can be a nice little conclusion given that you call it a policy of cutbacks. There is every opportunity for my honourable colleague to check with his colleagues in Malmö what they can do to ensure that we do not continue to throw 500 students out every year into eternal unemployment because they do not get access.
i-VdNHmktRJGQvghCTSa16w2	Mr. Old President! As has emerged in this discussion, the Left Party wants something else. We are not satisfied with a system where it is the system itself that is the problem. Today there are also problems in municipal schools. But we have to get to the bottom of the reasons why there are problems in municipal schools. It is very clear that the municipal school has become worse and more difficult to operate since the introduction of this market logic and school. When it comes to the difference between the municipalities and the independent actors, it is very clear. The municipalities are responsible for all children, while the marketing schools can choose and choose among the children. We also see how it is chosen. This is one of the reasons why segregation is increasing. First of all, you want students who can make as much money as possible, primarily students who come from study-experienced homes and environments and students who have parents with academic backgrounds. This is the system failure that also damages the municipal school. That is why we in the Left Party believe that a system which, year after year, has not worked for 30 years must be changed. A change of system is required. There's not the Center Party yet. While you do not want to change the system, the Center Party is in charge of 199 municipalities. A large majority of those municipalities, over 90 per cent, cut back on school. Then the Center Party is responsible for the staff and the students. Why does it not want to change a non-functioning system of market solutions and logic? Why do you also want to cut back on municipal school resources? In Stockholm, the Center Party even wants to sell municipal school buildings to private actors and private school companies. Is this reasonable? I mean that is not the case. When municipal schools have problems, they should be addressed, but they are democratically governed. This is the difference between the municipal school and the independent market schools.
i-9hdrXaTWR7wjqpwci7m6er	Mr. Old President! News reports have been filled for a number of years with reports of schools where girls are taught separately from boys, schools where school management has links to extremist terrorist organisations, schools where the principal is involved in financial crime, schools with major order problems and with threats and violence against both teachers and students and schools where up to half of the pupils do not reach the knowledge goals. It stands in stark contrast to the right of all children growing up in Sweden to good, evidence-based teaching that follows the school law and curriculum and the values described there. I quote from the curriculum: the inviolability of human life, the freedom and integrity of the individual, the equal value of all people, equality between women and men, and solidarity between people are the values that the school is to portray and convey. In line with the ethics of Christian tradition and Western humanism, this is done through the individual's education of justice, generosity, tolerance and responsibility. School education shall be non-confessional. ..................................................... It has been strange, to say the least, that the Swedish School Inspectorate has been able to close municipally funded schools with independent principals, but not municipally run schools that have been able to have at least as large deficiencies. This is corrected by the proposal we are debating today. It's good and it's about time. It is an important signal that the legislative changes will enter into force at the end of the six months, on 1 July 2022. It's not a day too soon. The school should be equal and equal for the students. Regardless of the principal, students must have equal rights to good, comprehensive and impartial teaching that gives them equal opportunities to achieve the school's knowledge requirements. The conditions and requirements for those who run schools must of course also be equal and equal. I am pleased that a majority in the Riksdag agrees to announce to the Government that the School Inspectorate should be given a strengthened mission to carry out more inspections and more unannounced inspections. The KD-M-SD budget for 2022, as adopted by Parliament, provides more money for the Swedish School Inspectorate. It is important that the Swedish School Inspectorate has the opportunity to follow up previous reviews and check that the school has corrected deficiencies that have been identified. However, it is also important that the School Inspectorate can carry out unannounced reviews if there are indications of maladministration. If the school management is told a few weeks in advance that an inspection is underway, one can clean up, let us say posters with violent extremist Islamist messages, rearrange the teaching so that it seems that gender separation is not done and so on. It is surprising, however, that the government does not see the need to clarify what serious maladministration means. The proposal would have had to provide clearer guidance on the type of deficiencies to be addressed. We understand that a legislative text cannot give an exhaustive list of everything that can be regarded as serious maladministration. However, one should at least be able to describe what it could be and what it could not be that could be regarded as a serious mistake. Here the government would have to return to Parliament with a clarification of the legislation. Otherwise, there is room for arbitrariness. With this, I support reservation number 6.
i-XM5N8Yu1UYjWLVdcpWyy98	Mr. Old President! I thank the other Members for a good debate. I'm in favour of our reservation, number five. It always feels good to do it at first so I don't miss it. Mr. Old President! As many of us know, we Liberals are very concerned about the great differences that exist between schools in the country and between students' opportunities to get a good education depending on where they happen to grow up. For this reason, we have long pursued a policy for a state school, a school in which the state assumes a responsibility for pupils to have an equivalent school across the country. We do not have that today, and there is no such proposal at Parliament's table and no majority in favour of it. However, I would like to note that the major problem of differences between schools in the country is not about what we are debating today, even if it may sound so, but about the fact that we have municipalised the school, something the Liberals are very critical of. Mr. Old President! I think there is a lack of perspective in today's debate, and I will start there. The reason why we have a public school and that all children in Sweden should be allowed to go to school, which is one of the most basic and important parts of our welfare, is that every child, no matter who you are or where you live, should have the right to equal chances of life. Children are therefore entitled to a schooling and education that gives them equal chances for the rest of their lives. That is also why we have compulsory schooling and, as everyone knows, it is a state regulation. It is strange that we in Sweden have a government regulation that says that all children should go to school and that we agree that the school is important to give all children equal chances of life but at the same time have a policy that makes a difference between which school the children go in by treating schools that mismanage their mission differently depending on the principal. This is one of the things we are trying to correct today. Of course, it should not matter whether it is an independent principal or a municipality that runs the schools. Schools that do not behave properly should not be allowed to continue as pupils are entitled to good schooling regardless of school. This is an important thing for the state to devote itself to because the state has decided that Sweden should have compulsory schooling. Mr. Old President! There are a number of problems that may not be the school's task to solve but where we know that a good school is part of the solution. It's about crime, inequality and skills shortages. As I said, it is not the school's primary task to solve these problems, but we know that if the school works, they come a little closer to a solution. That is also why rich policy must devote itself to this. We can't just leave it up to the municipalities. Mr. Old President! I am not doing school politics on a daily basis, but I am actually on the Foreign Affairs Committee. Someone may wonder what I am doing here, but during the pandemic you have to stand up for your colleagues. For those who are not buried in the school political trenches every day, it may seem a little strange that some politicians love free schools and want to defend them at all costs, while others are really against free schools and want to attack them at all costs and that different parties like get caught up in this. It must be the case that all schools that are good must be able to contribute. All schools that deliver good knowledge and good teaching are of course good for the students and help to create equality while all schools that are bad, whether they are free schools or municipal, should be reviewed and, at worst, closed. I think most voters agree with me that the important thing is not who runs the school but that the school works and delivers good results. That's why we need to crawl out of our trenches and treat schools more equally. Mr. Old President! Of course, it has major consequences when the School Inspectorate closes a school that does not deliver good results and where the students do not get what they are entitled to. These consequences need to be addressed, including through the obligation of preparedness. The municipalities thus have an obligation to ensure that there is room in other schools for those students who have attended a school that has been forced to close. Our reservation is that the state should not prevent municipalities that have a well-functioning independent school, and where the School Inspectorate closed the municipal school, to solve the problem that has arisen together with the independent operator. Contingency must mean that you can also cooperate with private actors. It's probably not that controversial for most people if they step out of their trenches. In other words, schools that are good should continue to operate well, and municipalities that have good independent schools but have problems with a municipal school should be able to cooperate with independent actors. We should simply treat schools more equally from the perspective that students should have the right to a good schooling and thus get equal chances of life, not treat schools differently based on who runs the business. Mr. Old President! As I have said, I would like to endorse reservation 5.
i-514jTtGkB9F9PeYTGHraD4	Mr. Old President! It is interesting to listen to the Liberals' representatives Joar Forssell. On him it sounds like we already have a level playing field for schools and a system in which we can treat all schools equally, and that is why everything will work out. But the fact is that the Liberals have been involved in building a market system with a logic that does not start from the needs of students and where differences between schools automatically arise precisely because of this system. This defends the Liberals in municipalities by municipality and at national level. Liberals have also voted against the principle of public access, but here Joar Forssell says that it should be equal between all schools. But while we have transparency in municipal schools, we do not have it in marketing schools. Liberals have voted against in principle every bill that would make it more equal between serious individual actors and municipal schools. When the Liberals talk about nationalizing the school, they don't mean that, because the Liberals still want to keep actors who, for example, measure the skirt length of students, as at the International English School. Liberals also want to retain schools that channel millions of money from Swedish schools to other countries. I simply wonder: what is going on, as Joar Forssell says from the speaker's seat, with the policy that the Liberals have actually pursued and are still pursuing?
i-Rws5ny3qZJkry2mLcebBBC	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Mr Riazat, for the important questions. I'd really like to say that. I can begin by stating that I think that children and adults should be allowed to dress whatever they want. I think this is a reasonable position, regardless of which school we are talking about. In fact, if I were the President or the President of the Age, I would have changed the dress code in the Chamber as well. I think we can get dressed a little how we want to dress here too. I do not think that is something politicians should decide in any context. Mr. Old President! I note that the Left Party makes two mistakes, as they often do. The first is that they mix up equal to equal, but it's actually not the same thing. The same means that, based on the conditions that exist – it is about opportunities, needs, everything around a school, what students you have and what the conditions are in the municipality to fund the business, as long as we have not nationalised the school – you should be able to offer an equal schooling so that students, no matter where they are in Sweden and who they are, can get a good school and equal and decent life chances. It is clear that a school that has a tougher student base must be able to get more resources. It may not be the same, but it's the same. It is a problem that the Left Party cannot distinguish this. The other ones that the Left Party does, as usual, are that they do not think that students should be allowed to choose school. It is not the students who are in focus, but they think it is politicians who should choose school for the students. I don't think it's a good policy. I think that students and parents must be allowed to choose school and that it is good that there is a diversity. But I think bad schools should stop doing business.
i-NDLdGtn6sUBW7xK1E58aSb	Mr. Old President! We can say that as soon as there is talk of good and bad schools, we have reached a point where we see that the system is wrong. We should not have good or bad schools in this country. Member Joar Forssell talks about the needs and conditions to govern. At the same time, the Liberals are involved in and run in half of Sweden's municipalities, and in the majority of these they cut down on the school, no matter what needs and conditions there are. I am standing here in front of a Member from a party who does not see that municipal schools have the greatest needs today because of the pupil base available and that they should therefore receive more compensation than market-driven schools. I have a Member in front of me right now who does not see that the market system has weakened the entire Swedish school system, not only for the independent operators but also for the publicly owned schools. Over the years, the Liberals' answer to these questions has been to prevent any legislative proposal that would in any way even out the differences or in any way stop the rogue independent actors. Instead, the policy of liberals has been to come up with other proposals concerning mobile bans or pointless issues that no one at any school has asked for. Why is this being done? In order to remove the focus from the fact that the system that the Liberals have been involved in contributing to and still maintaining has contributed to segregation, to students not leaving school with full grades and to students' right to knowledge and education, or customers' need for knowledge and education, as the Liberals call it, not being given priority.
i-9pNkX81kumeYeQShEhU8bW	Mr. Old President! I would like to begin by stating that Daniel Riazat is a left-wing party. I think you read Aftonbladet then. I don't know, but I think so. Then the honourable Member will know that I have actually studied a little on the teacher programme. My perspective on a mobile ban is that it is clear that it must be up to the teacher to decide what to do in the classroom. There are digital tools that are great, but there are also big problems with mobile phones that disturb around Sweden's classroom. Another peculiarity of the Left Party is that you seem to think that it is possible to get up in the speaker's chair here without knowing who you are debating against and still just driving with your usual aggressive left rhetoric. But it doesn't work, Mr. Old President, because I know what reality looks like. I have lived in Tensta for many years, and I have been in Rinkeby-Kista's district council in opposition to, among other things, the Left Party. In Stockholm, when we have run the school, we have increased the socio-economic redistribution to schools in vulnerable areas where more support is needed. I have seen with my own eyes how we in the Liberals, when we have run the school, have seen to it that the socio-economic redistribution is increasing. It is also for this reason, Mr President-in-Office, that we want the funding of the school to be state-owned, because there is a difference between the municipalities of the country in terms of the possibility of doing so. In Stockholm we have had good opportunities. I have seen it, and I am very pleased that we have been able to make such a socio-economic redistribution in Stockholm when the Liberals have ruled. But you can't do it all over the country because you don't have the resources. That is why it is so important that we nationalise the school by ensuring that the funding of the school is more equal throughout the country and comes from the state.
i-5pyzdGW7qyBmLrV4b3hKRx	Mr. Old President! Of course, today's bill should not be necessary. No school in our country should be so bad that it must be shut down by the state. No principal should have so little resources to live up to the law's demands that you cannot manage to give all children a good education. And no one running a school should do it in order to make money that would go to the children. No, let's put a Band-Aid on a broken school system. In Sweden today, unfortunately, the Vice-Chancellors do not get resources based on the students' needs, but on how rich people live in the municipality. In rich municipalities, like here in Stockholm, you can afford to invest more in school than in municipalities where those who live there do not earn as much money, for example because there are many pensioners, for example because you have high unemployment or for example because you are a municipality that has received a large proportion of new arrivals compared to other municipalities. Mr. Old President! It's not supposed to be like this. The state must ensure that all children throughout Sweden have their right to an equal school, and therefore we in the Green Party believe that the state must take greater responsibility for the school's equal funding. The equivalence contribution that we in the Green Party introduced is an important first step, but we must go further. Mr. Old President! What do you do with bad schools? What do you mean? If a school is bad, how do you do it in Finland? When we were on a study visit to our eastern neighbour Finland, this question was asked several times before the man from the Finnish school authority even understood what the Member from Sweden was talking about. What do you mean by bad schools? If a school in Finland has problems then we work together to solve the problems. ..................................................... This man looked very stunned. And I have carried this question and his answer with me ever since. So there we will have it in Sweden too, so that no one understands the question: What do you do with bad schools? Mr President, I would like to What, then, is required to get there, to a system in which the state and the municipalities work together to solve the problems of a school? We in the Green Party are convinced that if we are to have reliable cooperation between everyone who runs schools and the state authorities, we must basically rely on everyone who runs schools doing so for the benefit of the children and for all children to reach their full potential. Then we cannot allow some people to run schools in order to pick money out in profit and put it in their own pocket. It is not possible to trust anyone who, under the Companies Act, is even obliged to put the owners' profit interests first. In such a system, we must have control, inspections, formal decisions and ultimately the possibility of actually shutting down an activity. In such a system we need these patches. We in the Green Party have a vision of a school that can be run with confidence in the professionals who actually have many years of education to become principals and teachers. We need to abolish the market system at school. Get rid of those who do not want to be in school and run schools if they are not allowed to make money from the tax money that we have set aside for the children! I hope that we will soon have a mechanism in place that will bring us one step closer to this trust-based governance within the framework of this broken system. This is what we call quality dialogues – to ensure that the Swedish National Agency for Education meets everyone who runs a school to talk about the problems that each school has and find solutions. I believe that this is an incredibly important reform which I hope the new Minister of Education will continue to push through. Mr President, I would like to Today, we are amending the School Act to give the School Inspectorate the opportunity to close those schools that have such serious shortcomings, despite statements, that they cannot continue. Let's put a Band-Aid on the abrasions. But the patient – Swedish school – is bleeding inside. If we are to bring about a real change, we must fix the system and abolish marketing school.
i-Ux3qRiiKsxLcYaQCS76Qqv	Mr President, I would like to The Green Party was part of the government until a few months ago but is no longer in that constellation. I will therefore not ask the honourable Member here to take responsibility for the proposals put forward by the Government. However, since the Green Party will vote in favour of closing municipal schools in the same way as independent schools, I still think it is important to clarify one thing. As I said from the floor earlier, this was part of the January agreement. It was the Liberals, the Center Party, the Social Democrats and the Green Party who at the time absolutely wanted this legislation in place, that municipalities, although they have a different responsibility for the Swedish school and for Swedish school students, should be treated in exactly the same way as the independent actors. Here is something that clashes with the rhetoric that Annika Hirvonen voiced from the speaker's chair earlier. The Green Party claims to stand up to market school, and the Green Party claims to stand up to market logic. But despite the fact that the Green Party is no longer in the government, it continues to support a proposal which comes from the bourgeois side and which is simply about, instead of taking hold of the marketing school, transferring the focus to the municipal school and that is where the problems are. The Legislative Council and several other consultation bodies have said that there is not a single concrete case where stricter legislation has been needed. I therefore wonder: how does the Green Party think, and how does Annika Hirvonen's rhetoric fit into the actual policy of the Green Party today?
i-XaTGkg4FUEzVf9mVYihkKp	Mr President, I would like to Had we been able to get through the proposal to abolish marketing school and ensure that all municipalities, no matter how many rich people live there, can give children a good school, this proposal would not be necessary. There is an important difference in this proposal compared to the proposal that Daniel Riazat criticised – he also read out the criticism of several referrals against it – and that is to give the school authority the opportunity to assess what action is appropriate in the individual case. It is a crucial difference to the incredibly criticised proposal which was a compromise from the January agreement and which was sent out for consultation. This proposal in no way prevents us from achieving what both the Green Party and the Left Party want, namely to abolish the market school. This gives the school authorities more tools in their supervision of the system that unfortunately leads to us having bad schools today. I don't have time to go into this whole part of the line shift. Unfortunately, however, it is also the case that municipal schools are hit very hard because of the market logic and are underfunded, partly because we have a large school segregation that concentrates children who need a lot of support for certain municipal schools and partly because we have different funding. These two factors mean that we also have major problems in many municipal schools. Ultimately, the solution is fixed funding.
i-G3V38ND6sRVWJnaBCNPv3Q	Mr President, I would like to I thank Annika Hirvonen for her answer. Nevertheless, I must continue to be sceptical because the Green Party often, together with the bourgeoisie, does exactly the opposite in many municipalities. It makes it easier for marketing schools to establish themselves. In Stockholm we have the example where the Green Party is now paving the way for independent schools – rather giants in the market school world – to take over municipal school buildings, sports facilities and the like. You are involved in selling out these premises. It is not something that anyone can force a party to do, but it is an active choice that the Green Party makes in many municipalities where you are co-governing, primarily with the bourgeoisie. When it comes to the issue of marketing school and handling here in Parliament, I know that the Green Party has now approached the Left Party's views that we must have a school that is for all children – an equal and equal school. At least that's what the Green Party says. At the same time, however, we are here today, a few months after the Green Party has left the government. One of the proposals put forward by the bourgeois parties behind the January Agreement will be the Green Party's vote, even arguing that it was a kind of compromise. This is where it limps a little bit in the argumentation, because the Green Party no longer has to stand up for bourgeois politics when it comes to school. You can actually have and express your own policy. On the Left side, we are very clear: there are so many consultation bodies, including the Law Council, who have said that this is not a necessary solution, and that means that we simply cannot support it. We do not really know what criticism the Green Party has of all these referrals.
i-464v7Y6yH6oiu4Wy8bHEbP	Mr President, I would like to I think that Daniel Riazat may have missed that the draft law is not the same as the draft law on which the referrals were made. It's changed. If it hadn't changed, we wouldn't be happy. However, this proposal in no way prevents us from continuing to work towards abolishing market logic in schools. The fact that we are discussing market logic at all is because it is one of the causes of the problems. This proposal does not solve these problems either, but this is a proposal which deals with the tools that state school authorities have to deal with poor schools. We in the Green Party are clear that we want to abolish the logic of the market. We also want to ensure that the state takes greater responsibility for school funding so that it can be equal. It is the two most central system reforms that are needed. Then we also need to ensure that municipalities do not fall into an untrue logic where they cannot afford to build schools themselves. Although in reality it is always the cheapest when municipalities borrow the money, many municipalities cannot afford it because of accounting rules. Instead, they find solutions that allow private actors to invest in schools, at a higher cost. That is a sick logic, and we need to take responsibility at national level for changing it.
i-GSDdRg3CTnUrqyBDt8R115	Mr President, I would like to This post is dedicated to Daniel Riazat. There are many examples of when the Swedish Democrats and the signatories have criticized even Christian Free Schools, in this pulpit and in motions. Just go back and read. A tip is therefore to update your lack of knowledge in this area. However, the problems are greatest in the Muslim free schools; all the studies that have been carried out show this. It is Islamism, segregation and division and widespread oppression of little girls. We don't see those problems in the Christian Free Schools, at least not to that extent, I can guess. In fact, I'd like to strike a punch for the free schools, too. They are a salvation for many children, and also for parents, when municipal schools fail. This applies to children who fall between the chairs: children who are bullied, children who get ill and also children with special needs. In my municipality of residence, for example, the municipal schools have failed to take care of children with special needs, and then they flee to the free schools that exist in the municipality and succeed in doing so. So there are very good free schools that do a very good job. There was segregation even in my time. For example, they lived in the suburbs or in a residential area, and that school was also segregated. But then something happened: There was mass immigration, and we got the multicultural society – all that the Left Party and Daniel Riazat are behind. It has exacerbated segregation and created problems that did not exist before. The Swedish school is nothing more than a reflection of the surrounding society. It is clear that we see widespread problems with violence and division and a wide range of other problems in school when that is what it looks like in society. That is where the main problem lies. That is what explains the widespread problem of segregation that we are seeing today. Freeschools could possibly contribute to the segregation of the margin, but not more than that.
i-SuhmQEM16zR1jqDQLpnerY	Mr President, I would like to I was going to give Richard Jomshof the opportunity to develop the reasoning about the free schools and the margin. In this House today, we are a number of speakers who have been quite clear about the consequences of the system we have, namely the division of children. There are incentives in this system to divide and segregate children based on what circumstances they come from and what conditions they have to manage well. This leads to a division, and if we have the incentives left, the division will be strengthened. Then the segregation will be strengthened. This is not something that Mr Jomshof can stand in the speaker's seat and call a margin. In fact, unlike Mr Jomshof's opinion, it is demonstrated in research and science that the system of freedom of choice we currently have, and the way in which the selection system is organised, actually reinforces segregation. There are clever methods for those who want to sort out children who are easy at school to do so; it is about the right of establishment, the criteria for selection and, above all, the principles of funding. In my speech, I said that we want to run the school with control. This is still about the regulator and what muscles it should have. We want to manage with control, and that is why politics must regain control of school from the market. Doesn't Richard Jomshof agree with me about that? Would he rather rule with mistrust and control? Does he want the students to be customers and teachers service providers?
i-HPZGPQHmAtunnfjtAVDsMQ	Mr President, I would like to The fact that there are problems in today's school I think we agree on, and that also shows today's debate. The fact that there are problems also with the free school system, I think we can also agree on that, and that is something I have highlighted here. Even at the beginning – I entered the Riksdag in 2010 – I highlighted this in a couple of different debates and motions. We put forward proposals for different types of regulation, and that is something we can well imagine. It is clear that we must find somewhere the faults and shortcomings that are, after all, in the system today. But when the Social Democrats, as well as the Green Party and the Left Party, debate, you get the picture that it is the free schools that are the problem – the whole free school system. Instead, I mean that they are a rescue for many and that most free schools are very good. If we look at society at large today – it doesn't really matter which municipality we look at – we see a society that is severely segregated and divided. Friskolanen contributes to a large extent to the fact that, for example, a parent of a student living in a suburb can go away from that area and that school to another school where it may be possible, what do I know – more Swedes. Then the student will have the opportunity to learn the language, and then this kind of system will be a way out. You can go somewhere else, for something better. I do not see that there would be a problem with this. I don't understand how it can be problematic. The basic problem is still that society looks like it does. Many schools of this kind fail, so parents and students want to go somewhere else. Then, when it comes to the fact that there may be other problems in the school system itself, I have no problem sitting down and discussing it and how we can do it even better. After all, the debate today shows somewhere that there is much that is good; it is even said in the bill that is on the table. However, we want to see more. So this is a very important discussion, but do not blame free schools directly! It's dishonest.
i-EyTMZT8ywH9fBB88iFjFAN	Mr President, I would like to I will say something that I have said quite a few times in this House by now. I will say it again because Mr Jomshof may not have heard me say it. We're not against free schools. The Social Democrats are not against free schools, nor are the Social Democrats against freedom of choice.
i-NEjgsXhbqJ1bHnfRT7rwpe	We are against the school market system that leads to segregation and deepens the division into society – which deepens the social divides. We want to change that school system. We're against profit. It was also the Swedish Democrats when Richard Jomshof entered the Riksdag. That's why he can stand here and say he's acted on it. At the time, the Swedish Democrats were against profit in welfare. The Swedish democrats thought that way. They don't anymore. It may be an adaptation to cooperation parties that has been incorporated or a concession for courtship from the business community. What do I know? The Swedish Democrats have changed their mind and are now proponents of profit. They are taking action to defend the venture capitalists in this. We are against the system as it is designed now, because it leads to error. It deepens divisions, deepens segregation and divides society. Possibly this is in line with the Swedish Democrats' idea of school policy; it could be a partial explanation. To divide pupils is the main idea in the Swedish Democrats' own school policy with emergency schools, duty schools and preparation schools. If you are mischievous, unable to behave or do not know Swedish, you should go to another school somewhere else. It is the policy of the Swedish Democrats, the policy of division. Maybe that's what this is about.
i-5afQe8ZPutEJQH2HhdTQoD	Mr President, I would like to This was an important line shift. I have not been involved in debates with Linus Sköld, because I have not been on the Education Committee for many years. But it's a good thing we had this line shift. Now, for the first time today, I believe, the Social Democrats could say that free schools can also be a good thing. You have not said this so far in the debate. It was the same thing last night. It was just trouble, nothing else. That's what it sounds like. You are sending very clear signals that are directly wrong. Society is divided. Society is segregated. The Social Democrats owe it that way. The free schools act as a rescue plank for very many children and parents when the municipal school has unfortunately failed. It's as simple as that. As far as the issue of profit is concerned, that is quite right. But we have also looked at whether the winnings are as large as you might sometimes think when listening to the parties on the left. They're not. It's not that big a problem. It's not a big problem. We should look at it the other way around. Delivering the school? Can the school deliver good quality? In fact, often you do. As I said earlier, they often take care of children who get hurt in municipal school. Then I don't think it's a problem that they make a small profit. It's not about vacuuming the school system for billions. You get that impression when you listen to the parties on the left. That's not true. It's about a small win draw. But we can certainly imagine discussing it too – absolutely. Of course we can talk about it. But it's not a main problem. If you were to take away the opportunity to make a profit, even ban the free schools – what do I know, that is, there are those who want to do it – it would hardly make things better, but vice versa. That it looks like it does is because society looks like it does, and it's your fault, not ours.
i-4k9jrDRx52fYaJMxdjVhQF	Mr President, I would like to The resources of the school system should be used to improve the quality of schools and not be distributed as a profit. Swedish school is about to turn into a billion-dollar industry where companies invest money and take home profits like in any other company, including through lower teacher density and higher percentage of unauthorized teachers. These gains are also often shifted abroad. However, we do not believe that the school can be regarded as any other company. This is Richard Jomshof's words from 2013. This is something that has changed after a couple of dinners with the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. I would like to stress that when we talk about the marketing school, it is a fact that the Swedish democrats have no interest in talking about what it looks like today, because they have made a U-turn. The Swedish Democrats have made a U-turn. The Swedish Democrats are the reason why money can be sent to religious fundamentalists in other countries. And the Swedish Democrats are the reason why schools today can measure girls' skirt length without shutting them down. Richard Jomshof and the Swedish Democrats are guilty of this.
