i-T4qwFkxENzykdtHiYjzekF	Madam President, I would like Terrorism involves crime of a very serious and systemic nature and is one of the most serious threats to our democracy. The violent right-wing extremist environment and the violent Islamic environment are the main terrorist threats to Sweden. And the threat of the attack continues to rise. There are also other religious or secular terrorist organisations that have supporters in Sweden, especially ethno-separatist groups. Violent left-wing extremists are also active in our country. All of these violent extremist environments have international contacts with like-minded people. Our efforts to combat terrorism must continue. One aspect of this is the issue we are now debating, on which we are going to decide today. Simply put, this proposal is about making it possible to prohibit being a member of a terrorist organisation. The report is called Freedom of Association and terrorist organisations. According to 2 Chapter. Paragraph 1, first paragraph, is the form of government, each against the general guaranteed freedom of association. It is defined as a freedom to join others for general or individual purposes. It is a very important freedom and right that we have in Sweden. Therefore, freedom of association can only be defined under certain narrowly defined conditions by ordinary law. The government has now proposed in a bill a change in the form of a government that will increase the possibilities of limiting by law the freedom of association of associations engaged in or supporting terrorism. This change will make it possible to introduce a broader criminalisation of participation in a terrorist organisation or a ban on terrorist organisations. This is, of course, a balance, but we Moderates, like the majority of the committees, share the view of the Government that the reasons which suggest that the legislator should be given the opportunity to intervene, through restrictions on freedom of association, against associations engaged in terrorism are significantly stronger than the arguments that can be put forward against such a regime. In the Committee's view, therefore, there is strong justification for a new restriction rule which increases the possibilities for us to limit the freedom of association in this area by law. But it's not as easy as it might seem. The decision to change the constitution is made in accordance with Chapter 8. Section 14, namely, the form of government through two equal decisions in the Riksdag. The first decision adopts the draft Constitution as a suspension. The second decision may not be made earlier than that after the first decision there have been elections to the Riksdag throughout the kingdom and that the newly elected Parliament has gathered. That is why the Committee, Madam President, proposes that the Parliament should adopt the government's proposal for a law amending the form of government. But with that said, I am not satisfied. I do not believe that the government has given priority to counter-terrorism despite a deteriorating security situation and an increased level of terrorist threat. Legislative work in this area has been delayed and has left Sweden vulnerable. The responsibility for this lies entirely with the government. It was in view of the increased terrorist threat level that the Moderates concluded two agreements on counter-terrorism measures with the Government and several parties of the Riksdag in 2015 and 2017. We agreed across party boundaries on important initiatives to strengthen Sweden's security. In the 2017 Terrorist Agreement, the parties agreed to investigate the criminalisation of associations with terrorist organisations and to swiftly submit legislative proposals. The legislation on association, which was included in this agreement and which was to be given high priority by the government, was instead drawn in the long way. The issue of participation in a terrorist organisation has also been delayed. And this can only be done after the next election. In several countries, legislation is already in place that criminalises participation in a terrorist organisation, which facilitates the fight against terrorism. But in Sweden, as I said, it will take some time. Madam President, I would like We have a reservation in this report. It does not concern the proposals of the bill, but concerns other types of organisations. We think that there could be an exception to the freedom of association here too. It is about the criminal gangs, and it is about violent extremism. In view of the social danger represented by the criminal gangs in Sweden, there are strong reasons to consider the criminalisation of participating in a criminal gang. However, in order to do so, freedom of association must be restricted, which we think would be entirely reasonable. The purpose of freedom of association has never been to protect the right of criminals to organise themselves, nor terrorists. We therefore believe that the government should make proposals as soon as possible to ensure that an exception to the freedom of association is designed so that criminal associations and gangs are included. We also believe that the government should review the possibility of restricting the constitutionally protected freedom of association for all forms of violent extremism. In democratic society, change must take place through conviction and free debate, not through violence and threats. In our opinion, therefore, a ban on participation in all violent organisations should be introduced regardless of ideological motives. A ban would mark the limits of democracy, and it would make it more difficult for violent organisations to carry out their activities and would make it possible to punish those who, with threats and violence, undermine our free and open society. Madam President, I would like I am in favour of reservation 2 in the report.
i-NzCjxN3TjufpBBjeB8atUA	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2 in the KU13 Freedom of Association and terrorist organisations. The previous speaker has explained in an exemplary way the background to this dossier, but I would like to emphasise the following: freedom of association is a fundamental part of democracy. Without the ability to organise legally in various forms of voluntary associations, democracy loses its depth and civil society loses its vitality. Unfortunately, we are now in a situation where freedom of association is being abused. In a situation where violence escalates – it is, among other things, shootings and executions on the open street – it is not criminal to participate in a criminal gang. The government's proposal to restrict freedom of association for terrorism is positive, but unfortunately it is not far enough. The problem that is really urgent in Sweden today is precisely crime. It undermines the structures of society in depth and serves as a breeding ground for more serious problems, such as terrorism. Instead, by not stifling these criminal behaviours in their infancy, they create a situation in which they become larger in the future. The Swedish Democrats have repeatedly called for an investigation into the question of exempting criminal associations from the freedom of association. Instead, the government's unwillingness to initiate an investigation now means that we can bring about effective legislation in this area at the earliest after the 2026 elections. Fundamental changes should, as we all know, be very well balanced. In this case, however, it can be said that the government's inability to act in time hampers the possibility of hitting serious organised crime. In connection with this amendment, the government would also have been able to review how freedom of association can be adapted to combat all forms of violent extremism. Our democracy is based on an exchange of views. Changes must be made through free talk, not through lawless violence. The ideological motives of those who use violence are not really very relevant in this context. All actors who practice violence in free, democratic society violate the principles on which democracy is based.
i-DkE3rcC7LHHWFFYeQirPLH	Madam President, I would like It is now punishable by acts of terror. It's a criminal offence to finance terror. It is punishable to call for terror. It is punishable to recruit someone to carry out acts of terror. It is punishable to provide financial support to someone who is somehow involved in something related to terror. Traveling abroad to participate in terrorist activities is punishable, and it is punishable to start a journey if the intention is to participate in terrorist activities regardless of what happens then and so on. In other words, it is forbidden and punishable to prepare, plan and carry out acts of terrorism. Yet there are terrorist crimes in Sweden and in other countries where the legislation is often even more stringent than here, for example in countries where it is also forbidden to be a member of an organisation engaged in terrorism. The proposal today is about this very thing: to make it possible to ban membership and participation in organisations engaged in terrorism. It may well sound obvious that it should be forbidden to be part of a terrorist organisation, but it is certainly a new step when restrictions are made to the fundamental freedom of association. The Swedish freedom of association is regulated in the form of government and is expressed as a freedom to merge with others for general or individual purposes. The rights introduced in the 1976 form of government have hardly changed at all, and when they have done so, rights and freedoms have generally been extended. Restrictions on key rights and freedoms have not been considered very often. I cannot see the strong reasons that need to be given to restrict fundamental rights and freedoms at this stage, because all the actions that have been said are already prohibited. Swedish legislation tends to focus on what someone does, not who they are or what they think. This is an important order of principle. The Left Party does not want to criminalise people for their thoughts or what organisations they belong to, but the focus must be on preventing and punishing the criminal acts committed by individuals, themselves or together with others. One question that arises is who decides what is a terrorist organisation. Sweden cooperates very internationally, also in law enforcement. Is it then organisations that Putin believes are terrorist organisations that Swedish police should investigate if people here are members of? What about those who have received political asylum in Sweden and are part of an organisation that Erdo中an in Turkey considers to be a terrorist organisation? There are quite a few Kurdish refugees who are here, as Mr Erdo中an considers terrorists. There is no clear definition of what is a terrorist organisation. Anti-democratic currents, as we see in many parts of Europe, can influence which organisations will be affected. Many organisations that fight for political freedom or against dictatorships are considered by the leaders of their countries to be terrorists. The ANC in South Africa was perceived by the regime as terrorists, while most in the outside world felt that the organisation was conducting a perfectly legitimate struggle. There is a risk that organisations with democratic purposes are classified as terrorist groups, while a ban does not meet at all the type of lone perpetrators who have carried out some of the worst terrorist acts in Europe. Many of the terrible acts of terror in recent years have been committed by solitary offenders. How common it is for terrorists to act in regular associations seems to be extremely unclear. Neither Anders Behring Breivik in Oslo, Anton Lundin Pettersson, who carried out the school attack in Trollhättan, nor Rakhmat Akilov, who drove people to death and injured people on Drottninggatan in Stockholm, were members of some terrorist association when they carried out their actions. Nevertheless, the government believes that this constitutional change is an important tool for combating terrorism. In addition to the fact that it can go wrong, I wonder how it's supposed to work. Should the police ask to get the membership register of the IS? Will this in practice mean stopping any acts of terrorism? Instead of ineffective restrictions on freedom of association, we should invest in things that work. International cooperation and cooperation between authorities are highlighted by the Swedish Security Service. Keep developing it! Stop recruitment to violent groupings and act as soon as young people are radicalised, invest in breaking the isolation of young guys who seek violent sites online, prioritise the vulnerable areas, where we know that the risk of falling into violent groups is greatest, and counteract the environments where radicalisation is taking place. With this proposal, we risk making it more difficult for people who want to defend democracy, while those who want to commit terrorist crimes hardly care. All acts of terror and all attempts at terrorism are already criminalised. I would therefore like to ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-XSHuRqbPLvMUvcN9gnBGhp	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2. Today is a great day for the Constitutional Committee and for the Swedish Parliament. A constitutional amendment, which is now under way, is not something that we are working on every day, and we have done careful consideration in investigations and then in committee before coming to the House on this proposal. It is a constitutional change in order to better protect us from terrorism. We know that much of what threatens us are not individuals or groups who terrorise. It is states that use terrorism and that constitute the majority of the deadly threat that we have over us. But we have met terrorism, and we have met terrorist organisations in such a way that the committee now comes to this House with a proposal and wants the House to decide on a change in the form of government. The proposal provides for increased possibilities to limit by law the freedom of association of associations engaged in and supporting terrorism. The amendment will enable the legislator, for example, to introduce a broader criminalisation of participation in a terrorist organisation or a ban on terrorist organisations. It is true that has been said before that this does not cover everything, and we wanted to be more comprehensive. But it is a step towards further protecting Sweden and Swedish interests against terrorism. I would therefore like to highlight what the Christian Democrats have supported in reservation 2. In view of the social danger represented by the criminal gangs in Sweden, there are, we believe, strong reasons to consider also the criminalisation of participating in a criminal gang. In order to make such criminalisation possible, freedom of association is likely to be restricted here too, which we think would be entirely reasonable. Therefore, the KD considers that the Government should make proposals as soon as possible to ensure that an exception to the freedom of association is designed to include criminal associations and gangs. We have called for the question to be included in the 2020 constitutional investigation, and there the government has been slow, but here we support the reservation. The government's unwillingness to comply means that the legislation can be put in place at the earliest after the next elections in 2026. The Christian Democrats also believe that the government should review the possibility of restricting the constitutionally protected freedom of association for all forms of violent extremism.
i-KyajNfxiZkZ1wx7ub2jkEs	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the floor. This is the first time I've been standing in this speaker's chair. Last term, there was a Nazi in the city council where I live. He came into another party's then open list. In 2017, Expo magazine pointed out the municipality of Ludvika as the strongest stronghold of Swedish Nazism. Grängesberg, Saxdalen, Blötberget, Fredriksberg, Fredriksberg and Nyhammar are some towns and villages in our beautiful municipality of Ludvika with over 500 lakes. Madam President, I would like We do not want this ideology with us. According to Säpo, the Nazi Nordic Resistance is capable of committing terrorist crimes. I'm not surprised because I know how they act. The Nazis photograph local politicians and harass peaceful anti-racists at their homes. They stand at our schools trying to recruit children, and they run threatening campaigns against pizzeria owners. The NMR beats its opponents. They want to overthrow the democracies of the Nordic countries, introduce a "national socialist" leadership state as the "revolutionary spearhead" they describe themselves as. According to a survey of Swedish Radio 2018, one quarter of the most active in NMR were convicted of violent crimes. When NMR demonstrated illegally outside a bookstore in Falun a few years ago, my friend Diyar and I approached them. Center party leader Annie Lööf signed her new book inside the bookstore. The Nazis just stood outside with a huge banner and handed out flyers with a picture of a noose. It was reserved for traitors and traitors in the picture. We asked the Nazis if it was the party leader on the inside that they directed the message against. Yes, all the traitors, we got in response. NMR conducts war camps in our gymnasiums, and they received police permits in the previous election movement to have a coffee table in three places in our municipality – every day, in three places, for several months. Now they're running for council again. Madam President, I would like Few think this is a reasonable order. The church, the school, the business community, the municipality, the local newspaper, the labour movement, even a collection of clowns who work on a voluntary basis, yes, the entire community in Ludvika, rose when NMR decided to demonstrate on May 1st. Civil society's resistance to these vile forces has been strong. Nazism does not belong with us, and we refuse to accept its presence. It is also in this way that the defence of democracy should take place primarily, that is, by strengthening, activating the democratic forces, taking hands and standing united against the hateful ideology. But more tools are needed. Democracy must be allowed to defend itself, and every step of the way is important. Today we are debating the KU's report 13, Freedom of Association and terrorist organisations, which deals with the government's proposal with the same name. Terrorism puts a very severe strain on affected communities and threatens international peace and security as well as national security. It is a crime of a very serious and systemic nature. It is one of the most serious threats to democracy, to the free exercise of human rights and to economic and social development. Sweden therefore needs good opportunities to intervene against terrorism. The Government proposes a change in the form of a government that extends the scope to restrict the freedom of association in the case of associations engaged in or supporting terrorism. The proposed amendment will make it possible, for example, to introduce a broader criminalisation of participation in a terrorist organisation or a ban on terrorist organisations. This change will enable Sweden to combat terrorism in more and new ways. Madam President, I would like Let me emphasise that the protection of freedom of association is a central element in the protection of rights and freedoms. A restriction on any of the central rights and freedoms in the areas of government has not been considered since the rules were introduced. We Social Democrats therefore believe that the possibility of restricting freedom of association should be extended only if strong reasons speak for it. We believe that the reasons for this situation are significantly stronger than the arguments put forward against, not least so that we can work better internationally on these issues. Finally, I would like to express my strong conviction that terrorism is best prevented by an equal, fair and secure society. Even Nazis or Islamists have been children, who for some reason have grown up and joined extreme movements. Our common task must be to combat these forces once they exist, but we must also remove the breeding ground for them. It is a task for and at the same time a defence of democracy – in spite of and in desire. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-YDiCpxVuG3JFbK1ZDBeQLp	Madam President, I would like As a centre party and a democracy worker, I am well aware of what my fellow Member of Parliament spoke about before me. We live with this every day-- we have it in the midst of us. Today we are debating the KU13 on freedom of association and terrorism. It is one of the weapons and tools we use to curb undemocratic movements and violence. We live in a time when violence and threats of violence are evident in our society – in Sweden, Europe and the world. Terror means fear and fear, and the purpose of terrorism is to reach power and advantage. Terror creates not only fear and conflict, but also further violence. The forces in our world that wish to exert influence through acts of terror must be stopped. The state has a monopoly of violence and therefore clear and clear regulations based on the rule of law. In today's debate on freedom of association and terrorist organisations, we are taking an important step forward. Terrorism is a severe strain on affected communities and threatens international peace and security as well as national security. In our modern history, acts of terror have brought havoc, death and fear. Terrorism involves systemic crime and is one of the most serious threats to democracy, the free exercise of human rights and economic and social development. Sweden needs to strengthen its capacity to intervene against terrorism. That is why the committee – and I support it – proposes that the Riksdag adopt as the dormant government's proposal for a law amending the form of government. In order for the proposal to become a law, two equally obedient decisions must be made with a parliamentary election between them. Madam President, I would like The reasons for the possibility to intervene, through restrictions on freedom of association, against associations engaged in terrorism are significantly stronger than those which may be indicated against such a regime. Terrorism involves crime of a very serious and systemic nature and is, as I said, a very serious threat to democracy. That is why there is strong justification for a new restriction rule which increases the possibility for the legislator to limit the freedom of association in the case of such associations by law. It is a major decision on our constitutionally protected freedom of association that we are taking today. I note that the Committee on Justice has no objection to the proposed constitutional amendments. Against this background, the KU and myself support the Government's proposed amendments. Madam President, I would like As far as the concept of terrorism is concerned, it is a question of criminal acts that have the typical features that, under international and Swedish law, characterise terrorist offences. The characteristics of such crime are that they are acts aimed at harming a country or an intergovernmental organisation and committed for a purpose of terrorism. For example, it may involve creating serious fear among a population or a population group or forcing a country or an intergovernmental organisation to decide or refrain from deciding on a measure. It may also involve seriously destabilising or destroying important structures in a country or, for that matter, an intergovernmental organisation. We are talking about political, constitutional, economic or social structures. Thus, in order for an association to be regarded as engaged in terrorism in the sense of the constitutional provision, it is not sufficient for an association's members in its name or under its direction to commit one or more criminal acts. It requires that the act or acts are serious attacks directed against a country and committed for terrorist purposes, i.e. that the conditions for terrorist offences are met. Madam President, I would like I support the proposal in the report.
i-Q2q4MdADAgvENpN4pWxVWp	Madam President, I would like This report, the KU16, deals with the government's proposal to introduce the crime of foreign spying. Free, independent and independent media form the foundation of a robust democracy. In Sweden, we have a long tradition of freedom of print and expression, and our media landscape contains a wide variety of television and radio channels and newspapers. We shall protect and be proud of this. In our vicinity we now see frightening examples of how state-controlled media in Russia makes it difficult for the people there to get a true picture of what their army is doing right now in Ukraine. Fortunately, there are still courageous journalists and activists who, despite threats and hatreds and at the risk of their own lives, are trying to penetrate state propaganda. Unfortunately, journalists' conditions for doing their job are deteriorating increasingly around the world. This is a very worrying development. Last year's press freedom index from Reporters Without Borders showed that the number of countries where freedom of the press is considered to be good has never been as low as now. In this light, much of the Left Party's criticism of the government's proposals should also be seen. We believe that the proposal should be rejected in its entirety. The Government's proposal involves the introduction of new freedom of the press and expression offences and the restriction of both freedom of communication and the right to procure. Madam President, I would like First of all, care should always be taken to introduce new criminalisations, especially when what in this case concerns amendments to our constitutions. However, if changes are to be implemented, they must be well substantiated and carefully analysed on the basis of the principles of necessity, efficiency and proportionality. The Left Party believes that the investigation on which the government's proposal is based has shown no need to introduce these new crimes. Even today you can of course be charged with crimes if you damage national security. Secondly, Madam President, the investigation notes that the number of cases involving the disclosure of sensitive information in the relevant international cooperation does not seem to be so large, but criminalisation can nevertheless be considered justified because it is so serious and punishable. This is going to be a very strange circular reasoning. If the problem of this crime is not great, it is difficult to see the need for new criminalisation. Thirdly, Madam President, we are concerned about the consequences of the introduction of the government's proposals on the new crime of freedom of expression and press. A number of consultative bodies and a united media industry have made massive criticisms. For example, the Journalist Association sees a great risk that the bill will severely limit the possibilities to report on Sweden's actions abroad. The publishing club says that limiting freedom of communication risks having a strong restraining effect on people who participate in or otherwise gain insight into international efforts; they will no longer provide information. This risks, in the long run, leading to the risk that information that should be known may remain secret. The Swedish Press, Radio and Television Authority also makes similar comments in its referral. In other words, this risks creating a significant degree of self-censorship among the media and people, who may no longer dare to sound the alarm about maladministration. Or, as newspaper publishers point out, the proposal may have a restraining effect on public freedom of expression and citizens' tendency to dare to denounce irregularities. That, Madam President, is, to say the least, a clear and worrying response – especially in the time we are living in, when we see how blockage and censorship are effectively used to strangle people's access to information. Another part of the government's proposal is an increased possibility of using secret coercive measures, such as secret interception, secret camera surveillance and secret data reading. In addition to the deep concern that this may risk revealing source protection, the Privacy Protection Authority has serious criticism of this proposal. They consider that the proportionality analysis of the investigation in relation to the use of secret coercive measures does not meet the requirements for such an analysis in the form of government. It is perhaps particularly remarkable, Madam President, that our current Minister for Culture Jeanette Gustafsdotter participated as an expert in this particular investigation. In his opinion, the current Minister for Culture writes as follows: Nor should anyone consider that the media should remain silent about such collaborations as this is a matter of, nor should their information and news media be limited to some kind of communiqué-like journalism that is limited to the recapitulative and re-issue of officially supplied information from the Armed Forces or other authorities. [----] However, the risk is obvious that the inclusion of the offences in the criminal catalogue will have the very inhibitory media effect that the investigation rejects. Against this background, I cannot support the proposals of the investigation in this part. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like It would have been interesting, to say the least, to hear the Minister for Culture defend this proposal, which she has so explicitly criticised in the past. But that was before she was in the government, of course. The Left Party believes that the Government's proposal is poorly substantiated and imposes unacceptable restrictions on our constitutions. The proposal risks giving foreign states a great opportunity to influence what is and can be written in Sweden. This is not only harmful to Sweden but also to our democracy in the long term and totally disproportionate, according to the Left Party. I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-ReiFZcfVALzjfBvQL2Fi1A	Madam President, I would like The Liberals have, in their accompanying motion, called for a rejection of the bill. That is why I am in favour of reservation 2. Why are the proposed amendments to constitutions and other laws problematic? It is clearly a public interest that there should be effective criminal law regulation of espionage-like acts. It is equally clear that regulation in this area has implications for freedom of expression, expression and information, and therefore for the ability of individual citizens to express ideas and provide information in accordance with the freedom of the press regulation's portal clause, thereby contributing to free and comprehensive information, as well as to the ability of journalists to carry out effective and independent reporting. We see in these days the importance of free media as well as the importance of reporting. Journalists take great personal risks in order to fulfill their important tasks. In a few weeks, we'll celebrate the day of freedom of the press. It is an incredibly important day to pay attention in these times. Madam President, I would like Since increased criminalisation risks having a negative impact on freedom of expression and information, the issue of foreign spying has been investigated several times. The proposals of the investigation on enhanced protection against foreign intelligence activities, SOU 2012:95, did not lead to legislation in this part. The abroad spy investigation, SOU 2017:70, which was subsequently appointed, has also met with criticism that the law risks criminalising journalistic reviews of, among other things, maladministration in international efforts. The proposed law on foreign spying aims to prevent sensitive information about Sweden's international cooperation from being disseminated. The provision of espionage is extended from going to foreign power to going to a foreign power or equivalent, where the unauthorized handling is likely to cause serious harm to Sweden's relations with another state or an inter-ethnic organisation. For example, this may be relevant in the context of peace and security conservation operations. Liberals believe that new legislation may be needed to access potential actors who use the Swedish freedom of expression and information to spy on the country's partners or go to armed non-governmental associations. Spies should also not be able to walk away from punishment by acting under journalistic cover. But what is secret within the Armed Forces is already secret and punishable to disclose. One argument for the bill is that other countries must be able to have confidence in Sweden, and it also states that secret information is not at risk of spreading. It has been argued that the current regulation may make it difficult to condemn someone for espionage who has disclosed secret information that has not harmed Sweden's security but has damaged relations with countries with which Sweden cooperates in an international effort. However, it is very unclear to what extent this problem description has full coverage in terms of problems that have actually occurred or are at risk of occurring. In this part, the description of the proposal is not sufficiently concrete. Moreover, this argument needs to be put in relation to the effects of the bill on the free formation of opinion and journalistic freedom. The fact that journalists report or reveal abuses or abuse in international efforts could clearly create irritation in some countries with which Sweden cooperates and in some cases also harm Sweden's relations with these countries. But free speech cannot be subordinate to such political considerations. The government is trying to deal with this dilemma by providing for an exemption from criminal liability if the act is justified by its purpose. The amendments shall enable journalists to sound the alarm of maladministration without committing a crime. The problem is that the concept of good interpretation is such that it is likely to limit both reporters and responsible publishers in terms of reporting. It may be easier to refrain in those cases that are difficult to determine, especially for media engagements that do not have unlimited resources. Since it is primarily the government that is responsible for foreign policy, it is also the government that ultimately determines which reporting can lead to serious but for Sweden's international relations. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, it would be reasonable to have a preparation that better caters for the balance of interests that I have described here. There is a need for enhanced guarantees of freedom of expression and information. The Government's legislative proposal does not have the necessary clarity and predictability to prevent individuals from exercising their constitutionally protected freedom of expression and information on a precautionary basis. Therefore, the Riksdag should reject the bill.
i-AQ259mQq6Aipb4HFHUwP8k	Madam President, I would like For me, overseas spying is one of the worst crimes you can commit. It is betraying not only our country and the society we build together, but also our family and friends. It's about risking a great deal of damage to what you and others in your neighborhood hold dearest. The proposals in the proposal now under discussion include the introduction of the crimes of espionage abroad, serious espionage abroad and the disclosure of classified information in international cooperation. It will be punishable under certain circumstances to disclose secret information that exists within Sweden's international cooperation and that may harm the country. The proposals mean that foreign spying and the forms of unauthorized employment with classified information, and negligence with classified information, which are based on foreign spying, are also criminalised as a crime of pressure and freedom of expression. In the heart of my trade union ombudsman, freedom of communication is not easily missed, but this is justified. It's about our common security. Madam President, I would like These are serious crimes, therefore, which can damage national security and all of us, and which are therefore keen to act vigorously against them. It may be difficult to grasp what these legislative changes mean in practical terms, and that is why I shall give two relatively concrete examples. Firstly, the proposal extends the criminal liability for spying so that the spying document can relate to a task whose disclosure to foreign power or equivalent may cause harm to Sweden's security. The reason for this proposal is that, in some cases, a terrorist group or another criminal organisation may have the same power in a geographical area as, for example, a state. An example of this is the power Daish had within his so-called caliphate. A person who procures information sensitive to national security in order to pass it on to, for example, a terrorist organisation with state-like control over a geographical area cannot be punished under current spying rules. Of course, we cannot have that. That is why we are putting forward this proposal to strengthen protection against intelligence activities that are taking place in favour of terrorist organisations, and that is why we believe that criminal liability must be extended. Madam President, I would like Secondly, it is about the need to protect Sweden's international cooperation. Examples of these are various peace and security promotion actions in which Sweden participates within the framework of, for example, the UN, the EU, NATO and the OSSE. Such international cooperation obviously contains sensitive information which should be treated as confidential in the operation. Peace and security cooperation is largely based on trust and on the fact that sensitive data can be protected by the cooperating countries. There is currently some criminal law protection for data that exists in international cooperation, but that is insufficient. In order for existing provisions to be applicable, unauthorised handling must be able to cause harm to Sweden and Sweden's safety. This requirement is rarely met when it comes to data handled within the framework of international cooperation, where the primary consequences of unauthorised handling mainly harm Sweden's relations with other countries and organisations. The criminal responsibility is rarely present today, but the props are important for the spy crime. If the information does not meet the requirement for but in the espionage provision, criminal liability for unauthorised and secret or negligent activities cannot be considered. There are simply shortcomings today in the criminal law protection of sensitive data that occur within the framework of international cooperation involving Sweden. In the worst case, the act can fall completely outside the criminal domain and, at best, only be punished as a breach of confidentiality – this for a procedure that can cause significant damage to collaborations and thereby to Sweden's external relations. This may in the long run damage Sweden's security because we depend on security in other countries and on international cooperation that is successful and effective. Sweden is also dependent on good and trustful relations with other countries to obtain information that may have a bearing on our security and to have the opportunity to participate fully in various collaborations. Criminal law protection in Sweden is weaker than in other countries with a common legal tradition and with which Sweden cooperates closely. There are therefore strong reasons for a criminalisation of espionage-like acts aimed at data relating to sensitive conditions of importance for Sweden's foreign relations. Madam President, I would like What we are dealing with here today are proposals that may seem abstract but which can have great practical significance for the protection of Sweden and Sweden's safety in both the short and long term and in both the large and the small. I would therefore like to conclude by calling for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved.
i-MMiURm7zuyGWSt1atBxLgV	Madam President, I would like Member Alexander Ojanne talks most about the need to protect international cooperation. It seems to me that this is the most important thing, more important than revealing possible abuses. In the Congo in 2003, Swedish UN soldiers witnessed the torture of Congolese soldiers by French soldiers. In the Central African Republic, soldiers witnessed the sexual abuse of children by the UN force there. The Swedish diplomat Anders Compass showed great courage in exposing the serious mishaps in the Central African Republic. Do the Social Democrats believe that Anders Compass should have been punished? Wouldn't he have shown courage and exposed the maladministration? With this change, there is a great risk that Anders Compass or others who follow his lead will be punished for wanting to reduce people's suffering. Obviously, the Social Democrats' greatest will is to strengthen good cooperation with other countries, regardless of the consequences.
i-BdpKpzyhnUBJwkKgdrVEWe	Madam President, I would like There is a valve in the bill, and the honourable Member knows that very well. An act shall not constitute a criminal offence if it is justified by its purpose and other circumstances. It's just such occasions as you mention. We believe that the changes in the bill are very important to ensure both future international cooperation and Sweden's security.
i-BTyXRh96ZQ8QT69ZdKAtBh	Madam President, I would like Who's to judge what's justifiable or what's not? We'll see about that. Despite the valve to which the honourable Member refers, a united media corps has said that this will have serious consequences. It will limit people's willingness to denounce abuses that have come to their attention, and it will result in responsible publishers perhaps not having the courage to publish what they know. It will restrict our constitutions very much. It is interesting that the Social Democrats do not seem to attach much importance to it anymore, but rather want to protect international cooperation. It is good that a collective media corps is made aware of this.
i-N7SYHTHTLVP6v2YUFCBSRd	Madam President, I would like We don't make that assessment. As mentioned above, an act shall not constitute a criminal offence if it is justified by its purpose and other circumstances. I think the proposal is very clear here. In today's changing security policy situation, it is essential that international cooperation can continue painless, effective and successful.
i-BquyUknVn15f2TNg1BTu8T	Madam President, I would like I request the approval of reservations 1 and 3. Today we are dealing with the Government's proposal Increased opportunities for basic eligibility for pupils in upper secondary school vocational programmes. The report means that all national vocational programmes in upper secondary school should give basic university qualifications. It is therefore proposed to increase both the total number of high school credits and the guaranteed teaching time. In addition, it is proposed that it should be possible for students to opt out of the basic permission if they so wish. We know that professional programmes have lost status quite significantly since they became three years old in the 1990s. There are many things that can explain this. We have discussed in this House several times during the parliamentary term the issue of, for example, the lack of prior knowledge and the problems it creates for the supply of skills in the country. This leads to shortcomings in certain professions, some of which have more shortcomings than others. This could be a problem for professional programmes. Many students who may be tired of school after the ninth grade and do not want to read further or do not have an interest in theoretical subjects choose professional programs. At least they would have liked that, but something has happened that has made them choose not to. The government says that it is because these programs do not provide basic university qualifications. The problem in itself, I think, is that the discussion has centred only on the question of the need for basic higher education qualifications. The political signal has been extremely clear: If you are going to study in high school, you should make sure that you can continue to study at the university. That is what has been the basis of the policies of the Social Democrats all these years. All of them should be made in one and the same form. There shouldn't be any variations. Everyone, whether they want to or not, should continue to study at the university. This should be the basis for the whole thing. So legislation is now being put in place in which this is to be actively removed, and so it is hoped that it will have an effect. However, the incentives for school-tired students and students who are not interested in studying theoretical subjects remain with the proposals. The proposal now on the table is almost exactly the same as the Parliament voted down in 2018. In the run-up to this debate, I drew up the old proposal and compared it page by page. It's the same headlines, it's the same subtitles, and it's almost exactly as obedient text. A few words have been changed – and a few extra words have been added. It is therefore a little sketchy changes to the proposal that the alliance parties and SD voted down in the Riksdag in 2018. Now the government returns with exactly the same proposal, with one exception: The aesthetic subjects are removed. In fact, you have to applaud this – it's smart done by the government. You leave it to rest, wait for four years and hope that the parliamentary majority will forget what it has once decided. Then the same proposal is put forward again. I note that the only people who have not gone for this scam are us and the Liberals. I find this surprising. We believe it is important that education systems do not build walls. What applies here and now may not apply in 20 years' time, but it is important to take into account both here and now and what applies in 20 years' time. A student who is not interested in studying theoretical subjects today should not have to do so, but should be able to do so in a later stage. That's where we have to be open. Now that we are criticising the proposal, just as we did last time, it is not a question of locking students into different systems, it is a question of affirming that there are different interests in different students. We must be sensitive to these differences. We should not think that we create attractiveness in some educations if we have the wrong entry values. We believe that the government is taking the wrong path now that it requires an active choice in order to renounce fundamental competence. We want to see a move on professional programmes. If we look at the Central Statistical Office's labour market forecast, we see that there are many areas of education where there will be a shortage of labour with professional competence at upper secondary level. Of course, we must take this into account. The model that the government is now presenting involves a great risk because there students will read more points than students on the theoretical programs, but at the same time. The training is therefore compressed. It's the same time, but they're gonna read all the more. This will not be good, but it will mean a deterioration in the quality of education in the long term. We believe that the professionalism demanded by industry will deteriorate. We also believe that the theoretical courses will be compressed and that there will be small courses of everything to make it. This represents a major disadvantage for the student who chooses to read further. Then let's be honest. You talk about basic access. We know that there are quite few courses and programmes at universities and higher education institutions that require only basic eligibility. Special jurisdiction is often also required. Sometimes the Social Democrats and the government enlarge this reform and make it bigger than it really is. We think that an obvious risk with the proposal is that the flow time is increasing. There is also a risk that those students we have talked about, who have weaker grades from comprehensive school and who want to study vocational programmes, will have much more difficulty in obtaining a secondary school degree because they lack interest in theoretical studies. Our proposal is based on a different approach. We want to return to a situation where we have two-year professional programmes in high school, but with the difference that it should be possible to read the basic qualification in a third year. It should therefore not only be possible to do this at komvux, but also be able to choose this during high school. So we want a two-plus-one model. Then we believe that there will be a focus on professional skills and skills during the first two years, and then they open up to take courses for those who want to enter higher education institutions and universities. We think it's a better model. It creates more clarity, but above all it creates greater incentives for those students who may not be ready to make a choice when they were 16 but who may be ready to do so when they are 18. It does not require active opt-out. It's much harder. We also want professional skills to be at the heart of professional programmes. This must be the case, not to study a lot of theoretical courses. Theoretisation of professional programmes must be fundamentally removed, but there must be added. We want more apprenticeships. We believe that this is important. We think that the government should come back with proposals to introduce more apprenticeships, broaden them, look at how Denmark and Germany are doing and involve the business community even more in the development of apprenticeships. This is one way of attracting more young people and making them more skilled and thus contributing to the needs of the labour market. Then we believe that study and career guidance must be strengthened. It must be made clear to students that professional programmes are not a bad choice, but, on the contrary, they are a very good choice. You get jobs and get into work, and the prospects are often much better than for academics who leave colleges and universities. Life's wages are usually also much higher. To sum up, the Government is therefore putting forward the proposal a second time. It is not much better, but it wants to continue to force students to enter basic qualifications into vocational programmes. We think this is the wrong way to go. It needs to be based more on incentives for students and on strengthening attractiveness by promoting education and training better, not on the fact that everyone should be run in the same form.
i-6ziePs7jK3wXtAUy3zPrrc	Madam President, I would like It's a solemn day today. Eleven years of failure from Jan Björklund's time is now over. It can be discussed for a long time which of Jan Björklund's school reforms was the most unsuccessful. But removing the basic qualification from upper secondary school's professional program is probably a clear top candidate. Madam President, I would like We in the Green Party were already opposed to this reform, and almost four years ago we had the opportunity to put an end to it. At that time, Parliament voted against. Today, however, we are changing the future of many students in our country. Today, the Riksdag will vote that all pupils attending a programme at upper secondary school, whether it is a vocational or a pre-study programme, should have a basic competence as a starting point. This means that on the schedule there will be all the subjects that are the basic requirement to move on to the university. Madam President, I would like We do not do this because we believe that all students want to or will continue to study at college or university. In fact, we are also doing this in order for more people to study professional programmes. It has been shown that the effect of not offering basic competences has been that fewer people have wanted to study professional programmes. I don't think this is entirely intuitive. I believe that the whole purpose of Jan Björklund's reform was for more people to study professional programmes. It was thought that school-tired people would choose to become plumbers to a greater extent if they didn't have as much Swedish on the schedule. It was the other way around. Fewer chose the upper secondary school vocational programme. Therefore, it is not by chance that some who have worked the hardest in the last four years for this reform to come into place are the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, the Industry Council and a number of other industry organisations that have a shortage of people to hire. Sweden's most important study and career counselors – the parents – advise their children not to choose a dead end. This is how it is perceived when the door to higher education is no longer as open. Madam President, I would like Let's shorten the way for a nanny to become a preschool teacher. Now we shorten the way for those who started as assistant nurse and later, after maybe ten years of working life, want to take the step and study as a nurse. Madam President, I would like I am very pleased that the government has moved on with the proposal that Gustav Fridolin once wrote in part. But I do not have a proposal in this proposal. It is about all high school students also getting access to an aesthetic subject. We used to be a lot of parties standing up for it. However, I note that the Green Party is today alone in supporting the reservation which is a sharp proposal to reintroduce aesthetic subjects as an obligatorium in secondary school. Aesthetic subjects are not just about entertainment and entertainment, but they are a central part of education. They are a tool to understand the world, something that is central to knowledge creation – collaborations where researchers and artists work together to develop and develop new knowledge. We can see that in places like Silicon Valley. We should have that in high school, too. The Green Party is today presenting a sharp proposal, the same proposal that was well-examined and prepared for the vote in 2018. And the Riksdag today has the option of also re-establishing aesthetic subjects in all upper secondary schools. I regret that it is only the Green Party that supports reservation 2 that I am in favour of. Madam President, I would like There is talk here of choosing or opting out. What's the best thing? Well, we can say one thing: the choice of subjects that would give basic competence has not been sufficient to ensure that the threshold for choosing the professional programmes is so low that you dare to do so. This has led to a scheduling problem, and in practice it has not even been possible in all upper secondary school programmes. The Swedish Democrats turn so much so that they should have the opportunity to study professional programmes without the right to basic qualifications as a starting point. Then I would like to say to them that anyone who wants to do so will still have this opportunity. There will be the opportunity for students to opt out of these extra points. But it will be much easier to opt out than it has been in today's system to choose from. The power of the students is thus increased. And I am convinced that when parents sit down with their children next academic year to choose upper secondary school, more will say to their children: Choose to become an electrician or a nurse because you will have good chances later in life to study further. I believe that this will lead to more school-tired young people actually taking the step and choosing a professional programme because later in life they will have the opportunity to re-train if they want to.
i-Bvuw9a6K8NVxzqNadXm65A	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats, unlike the Green Party, are not a utopian party. We believe more in what is happening here and now and see reality instead of dreaming. It is said that today there is a problem because we have a system that allows you to choose to enter higher education qualifications and that it would mean that students opt out of vocational programmes. I think it has a completely different explanation. Annika Hirvonen says that the parents are the most important study and career counselors and that they are the ones who make the students make the wrong choice. Forgive the choice of words, but I think it's almost like Annika Hirvonen said it. But what is the significance of political rhetoric if you constantly nag about the importance of continuing to study at colleges and universities and about the importance of having basic qualifications? Do not Annika Hirvonen think that students then think: If I choose a professional program it will make my life chances more difficult. But the fact is, it's exactly the opposite. Life pay increases when one chooses to professional programs. You have a much better chance of getting a job later in life if you choose a professional programme than if you choose certain types of university preparatory programmes and even if you later move on to universities. What responsibility do politicians have when using such rhetoric and constantly hacking down the lack of higher education qualifications when they actually have an opportunity to enter the basic university qualifications into the professional programmes already today?
i-SEK79krq5GR2Ex9WC2dSdQ	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats call us a utopian party. Perhaps it is because they themselves are a dystopian party – a party that does not believe in people's will and power to contribute to a good society, regardless of background and skin colour. We in the Green Party believe in people. We believe in giving people tools. We believe that people want to learn and develop. We believe in education. Patrick Reslow is discussing in a rather incoherent manner a series of allegations of what I should have said and not said in my speech. In fact, it is the parents at the kitchen tables who have the greatest influence over their children's choices. And not having the possibility of basic competence has very clearly reduced the number of applicants to the vocational preparatory programmes. It can be seen in the statistics. This is a clear trend break after Björklund's failed reform. The aim then was for more people to choose professional programmes. The motivation was that it was too much of the theoretical subjects and that it was therefore not chosen to study in the upper secondary school's professional programme. It turns out with facts and facts in hand that it was exactly the opposite. If the election is wrong or not, I don't want to go in and review. I simply note that many young people and their parents want doors open for further education in the future because they know it is wise. Let's give them that chance.
i-zXE8j6dnHnfBnqragxPjF	Madam President, I would like This is where the logical hill change takes place at the Green Party. They say that you do not have the possibility of basic competence. It is true in today's system. It's just that you have to choose it; you have to make an active choice to get it. But the fact that you do not have the possibility of basic jurisdiction is not true. That's not true, and that's what I mean is a big problem. When politicians in this way – consciously, we know it is – try to create the image that if you choose professional programmes you will not have the opportunity to enter basic university qualifications, yes, then I think parents will take it to heart. That's where the problem lies. If we go back and look at what it looked like before the professional programmes became three years old, we see that it was very popular programs – or lines, as they were then called. Just like now, they gave jobs and a high living wage, and people enjoyed it and thought it was fun. Students who had a difficult time in high school, who did not like the theoretical courses, gladly entered the professional programs and did just fine. Then something happened. Theoretisation of professional programmes was wrong from the beginning. The change made ten or eleven years ago in making it an active choice to read basic competences was fundamentally positive, but then politicians have destroyed this through their rhetoric. So what is said is not true. It is not the case that students in vocational programmes today do not have the opportunity to access basic qualifications. But an active choice is required. I think we should be honest about that, Annika Hirvonen.
i-MDJMfru2x2K1cjsageSY9p	Madam President, I would like It is a fact that it has been much more tricky to get to this option in practice. Of course it's affecting. Now freedom will remain. It will be easier to opt out than it has been to choose to. I really do not think that the reason for the rejection in the professional programmes is that we have been critical of the fact that the basic competence has no longer been included automatically. I think a hugely bigger problem is the constant rhetoric about professional programmes as something that fits school-tired. This, if anything, has reduced the status and pride of entering the programmes. I believe that a much greater problem with many male-dominated professional programmes is attitudes and values that have to do with unequal structures. Obviously it was a shift when the basic permission was removed and made possible to choose through a lot of complicated schematic abrovines. Then there was a dramatic decline in the pressure on the professional programmes, and now we have the shortage of jobs in the area by area. No, I do not think it is the case that the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, a number of professional organisations and the majority of parliamentary parties have made the wrong analysis when we note that we must ensure that the professional programmes become more attractive by re-establishing the basic competence as a starting point – with the possibility of opting out for those who do not see the value of these subjects too.
i-DemfN3xbxURTXx3f1AsTRv	Madam President, I would like Increased access to basic qualifications for pupils in upper secondary school's vocational programme – so called the bill that we are debating and deciding on today. Finally! I say. Finally! On the basis of this proposal, vocational programmes in upper secondary school will also include what is required to obtain basic eligibility for further studies at higher education. Anyone who doesn't want it will still be able to opt it out. But now we finally correct the historical mistake signed by Jan Björklund and made so many young people see closed doors ahead of them with the professional programmes rather than opportunities for the future. In order to do this without reducing the quality of vocational education and training, the scope of vocational programmes is slightly increased, both in terms of upper secondary education and guaranteed teaching time. Some already know in ninth grade that you want to be a chef, an industrial electrician or a car painter. But many have not dared to follow their dream because they have the impression that the choice of a professional programme limits opportunities for the future. That's not true. It hasn't, and it doesn't now. With this proposal, more people will be able to see vocational training as the broad education they are rather than as a dead end. We need to make that clear, and we are doing so today. When you go to a professional programme, the map of the future and career prospects are very broad, and we need to make sure that more people know about it. If you have completed a professional programme, you can get a job right after high school or study further. The key is that you should of course be able to read basic eligibility in your upper secondary school programme, which is not really the case today. It's unclear. Opportunities vary between programmes and schools. What we see is that the upper secondary schools that are clear about this in their This issue is too important to be left to individual marketing campaigns. It must become a matter of course, and it will be now. Madam President, I would like This reform shortens the path to further training and transition and makes it clear that you can become what you want, regardless of which upper secondary school programme you choose. Choosing a vocational education and training is a smart choice for young people who want to take advantage of their talent, want to go directly to a job and want several different paths for career and development. The lack of clarity about this caused concern among parents and pupils that vocational programmes are not continuing. Many parents have advised their children to do the community program if you do not know what you want to be! Why don't you decide later? I know that. I'm guilty. I said that to my son Adam. After work in the industry, Komvux training and two YH courses, which in fact often require higher education qualifications, he has finally become what he dreamed of at the kitchen table and that I did not understand that one could become: game developers. He's got a job. I'm happy. If not too many years I hope to sit there at the kitchen table again with my best friend Vilhelm, who is my grandson. He has many thoughts. He's thinking about working in the task force or intelligence or becoming a cop, a professional football professional or a social democrat. If he asks me, I'm going to say, go to vocational education, maybe health care. It is a broad and good education. You can definitely get a job the same day you quit, and then you can think about whether you want to be a cop or a professional footballer. We must stop dividing upper secondary school programmes into either pre- or pre-vocational programmes. We do not even know what professional skills are needed in the future. It must be wide, and the doors must be open. Madam President, I would like This is also about the skills supply of industry and welfare. The Social Democrats want Sweden to lead the climate transition, build a long-term sustainable society and thereby create the jobs of the future. If we're going to fix it, we need to keep investing in the Industrial Clue. We need to invest in research. We also need to have far more professionals to pull that long-awaited power line to SSAB in Oxelösund and to process the fossil-free steel to be produced there. Without skilled professionals, we will never achieve the goal of a fossil-free welfare country. Madam President, I would like We have listened to one of the two parties calling for the rejection of this bill. Now we have not heard Fredrik Malm and the Liberals, but I am not at all surprised by the attitude on the issue – they have, after all, been pushing this line for over 20 years. I was hoping that they would remove their blindfolds and see the reality. It is high time to understand that students and parents understand the value of not closing doors. Regardless of what you want to study, you want opportunities for the future – not closed doors. Patrick Reslow and the Swedish Democrats say a lot but seem to want to divide people as much as possible and as early as possible. Instead, they should see that this is a proposal that both benefits students' future prospects and strengthens professional programmes in their key role for Swedish skills provision. We have also listened to Annika Hirvonen, who is behind the bill to a hundred percent. She and MP also want to see that it contains the aesthetic substance. So do I and the Social Democrats, but I and my party are reformist realists and understand that this is not going through the House today. That is why this proposal is not included. However, I look forward to the next term of office. In four years we have managed to get six parties to support this proposal, so who knows-- you must never give up. Having said that, I would like to express my very sincere pleasure at the fact that six parties are behind the reform. Honouring the Christian Democrats, who speak in their opinion of the boldness of re-thinking. Also honors the Moderates and the Center Party. I would like to say once again: finally! I support the proposal in the report.
i-RWpXcc14VR2WGPaMzA8D1k	Madam President, I would like Caroline Helmersson Olsson said some interesting things. Among other things, she said that it's a bit difficult – we don't know what professional skills are needed for the future. That's right. At the same time, we will soon have a proposal on the table to enable us to know in advance what professional skills will be needed. I take note of this and will come back to that later. Caroline Helmersson Olsson also said that you do not want to close doors. No, no one wants to close doors. I think we can be honest and say that nobody wants to close doors. We propose a two-plus-one system, i.e. that these programmes are basically two years and then one can choose for a third year. This means that you do not need to be referred to komvux. The third year of the programme should be available, but it should be optional. No doors are closed here for anyone. Anyone who wants to enter basic university qualifications should do so. The problem is that the theoretical courses will be expanded in the model that the government is now presenting. This is to be squeezed in during these three years, along with professional orientations. This means that the focus is removed from the professional knowledge by pressing more theoretical subjects into this. My question to Caroline Helmersson Olsson is whether she sees a problem with this. And what is most important for Caroline Helmersson Olsson : professional skills for those students who have attended vocational programmes or theoretical studies?
i-KEanji3vo1Gmpa4zRY5orK	Madam President, I would like I thank Patrick Reslow for the question. Do I see concern? No. I have visited several professional high schools that have already done this and even one that never took it away. They're marketing and recruiting. They'll figure it out. There is absolutely no reason to be worried about the professions. Both are equally important – skilled professional workers and good citizens in society who have a better opportunity to change later in life. The two-plus-one construction I don't believe in, but I'm willing to continue discussing it. There will soon be an investigation into how more people can get through high school; Katrin Stjernfeldt Jammeh will soon present it. Perhaps we can find a solution, but today it is not the need for skills that exists. I do not think that two-plus-one meets this need. We will, of course, continue the discussion in the future.
i-Vo6PF4U7bSQiUs1QC6DQZC	Madam President, I would like Caroline Helmersson Olsson sees no concern, but the fact is that several consultation bodies have expressed this particular concern. They are afraid that throughput times are increasing and that it is becoming more difficult for some students to take a high school degree. Even if a proposal is made, one should see the concerns that many people are raising. I find it rather remarkable that a representative of the Social Democrats sees no concern at all when others do. After all, the need from the labour market is a very well-developed professional skill. There is therefore no need to be forced to enter a basic university qualification, which is fundamental and which in itself is quite restrictive, but the need for increased professional competence. That is also what the consultation bodies say – they are afraid that this will be done at the expense of professionalism. But Caroline Helmersson Olsson sees no problem with that. I also noticed that Caroline Helmersson Olsson in her previous line shift – or in the main speech – said that there are schools that are very good at marketing and that they are good at attracting more students to the education. Is this not something you should take to heart? Schools that are good at promoting themselves also attract more students to education. Is it not this – that the municipalities go out and market their professional programmes very hard and do not always have to hear that this closes doors and the like, which, incidentally, is not true – we should, above all, focus on the professional programmes? What does Caroline Helmersson Olsson think about that?
i-JFBNCsxi3W7dJg6ZsXtfYn	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. With regard to this matter with the National Agency for Education, I do not share that view, and there are certainly not many who are highlighting this. I've looked at the referrals given on 1 December 2017– that's what we're talking about. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, Visita, LRF, Företagarna, Svensk Handel, Teknikföretagen, LO, TCO, Saco, Handels, Kommunal, Sveriges Ingenjörer, studentkåren, studentråden, Lärarförbundet, Lärarna Riksförbund and others support the proposal. I feel very safe about it. I really can't find many people who think this isn't good. Marketing in all honour – I still think it's better that we invest in proper study and career guidance. Actually, I think we should get out of marketing school. Study and career guidance we go on!
i-TpwFmP24gv4LdNp5uxVYKU	Madam President, I would like Of course, it is not easy to understand why Caroline Helmersson Olsson gets a line from me. The first thing I will say is that the speech she has just given was one of the finest speeches I have heard in this House. I think this was described incredibly well. It was a beautiful declaration of love for the professional programs. Caroline Helmersson Olsson said that she and the Social Democrats share our view that aesthetic subjects should be reintroduced into all upper secondary school programmes. Now there is such a proposal in place. The fact that it does not go through is a weak reason not to vote in favour of what you actually stand for. If it really is the case that the Social Democrats are behind this policy, would it not be reasonable to manifest it by voting in favour of our reservation, even though it falls? After all, it costs nothing. There won't be an electric shock or anything when you press the button. Nevertheless, I would appeal to the Social Democrats to stand up for this important issue in this afternoon's vote.
i-JyPTKgbSLeHw9VhBun4TLD	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, which I very much understand. But it's the first time in 15 years that I get a line from an environmental party. That's why I'm a little unprepared. In addition, Annika Hirvonen began by commending me. You'd be a little embarrassed, wouldn't you say? The Social Democrats have a Congress decision on this since November last year. The problem that caused the whole thing to fall, including the aesthetic subject, was to take 50 points of high school work. This is not solved, nor is it in the proposal that we have to adopt today at 4 p.m. I understand that we have very many similar views, but we are a little different parties after all. We are reformists and realists. We want to solve the question of where to score the point before we press that button. But I look forward to pressing that button in the near future.
i-3rtcMc8LgURDfU5aGyR2L7	Madam President, I would like I thank Caroline Helmersson Olsson for an open and honest answer. I would like to take this opportunity to hear whether the Social Democrats have any other proposal to solve how the aesthetic subjects should get into all upper secondary school programmes.
i-8wwfrdebJBe5yb7P2AbtM5	Madam President, I would like Thank you for that question, too, and I will continue to be honest. No, we do not have such a proposal. There's a huge crowd between the subjects. Now we're going to introduce subject ratings as well. It's a big deal to do. Perhaps during that journey you can find solutions. At the moment, however, there is no other suggestion on the table but to take away from high school work. This was not a good solution, as several consultation bodies pointed out. But we will be creative together the next term of office.
i-41v4c49PiLKLFc1hkGCcYF	Madam President, I would like Finding employees with the right skills is crucial for Sweden's growth and competitiveness and for our common prosperity. At the same time, seven out of ten companies report difficulties in finding the right skills. Almost one in four recruitment attempts fails. This ultimately leads to a loss of welfare in Sweden. There are estimates that show that this costs our Swedish society as much as SEK 2.8 billion a week. It is enormous sums of money, while we have a great and growing exclusion. This requires political sensitivity and a political desire for reform. There is a need for major and comprehensive reforms. Upper secondary vocational education is now perhaps the educational background that most companies scream for and demand. It is estimated that as much as 40 percent of upper secondary school students would have to study on a professional program. Today, about 30% are starting a professional programme, but every fourth does not finish it. There's a big shortage. Compared to our neighbours Norway, Denmark and Finland, but also the Netherlands, Germany and the UK, Sweden has a significantly lower proportion of people choosing a professional programme. We know that we have a great need for competence. This applies not least to health care and long-term care. This also applies to areas such as vehicles and transport, building and restaurant, to name but a few concrete examples. At the same time, we know that those who study a professional programme get jobs to a very large extent afterwards. You are almost guaranteed a job after completing upper secondary school education. This is the background to the fact that today we are choosing to vote in favour of this bill, which is about having the opportunity to opt out instead of opting for university preparation. Surveys and surveys have been carried out, not least by the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, where questions have been asked to young people who would have been able to choose a professional programme but ultimately landed in opting out of it. There we see that the fact that it is not preparatory to higher education is the most important reason for opting out of it. That is why we believe that this can be an important measure to get in place. But that, of course, is not enough. Much more needs to be done to strengthen professional programmes in Sweden. Perhaps the most important thing is to strengthen the involvement of industry in the design of the programmes. It is about what needs you see and what parts in the design of the training are relevant to the employers who in the next step will choose to hire these young people. It is crucial that they have a greater influence on the design and content of the training courses, but also on the number of places and how these places are dimensioned. This is an issue that we will have reason to come back to in this House a little later this spring. I also believe that many employers have a responsibility to be even better at communicating about the prospects of the labour market after completing education. Perhaps the strongest reason for this is to clearly signal the needs of the labour market and the likelihood of finding a job after completing vocational training. Together, we need to be even better at conveying this. There is a homework to do for employers and business. But we in politics also have a great homework to do, not least in terms of how career counselling and study and career guidance are designed. Here too, major reforms are needed. You need much better knowledge before and around the choices you make. I also know that we will have reason to come back to this House in the future. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal.
i-ESHvrrNSTXn5DsvEjLvuAd	Madam President, I would like We have heard both in the past in this House and at every opportunity we have met various business organisations or companies around the country about the lack that exists when you want to get the right skills. Three out of ten recruitment attempts fail. In many cases, it is about people having knowledge and competence from the upper secondary level. There is a great need to increase the places to strengthen our competitiveness so that more people go from exclusion and get into work but also so that companies can accept the orders they receive and have the opportunity to develop and grow. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and Industry, among others, estimates that the proportion of graduates from vocational education and training needs to increase from around 30 per cent today to 40 per cent in order to meet the current and future needs. The Center Party has chosen to support the reform of the bill and the report that is being discussed today. We see a need to enable those who study a professional program to have this from scratch. But people should also be able to opt out of this if they feel that they do not need it in the situation they find themselves in. There are strong indications that there are good reasons to strengthen the attractiveness of education and training in this way. The Youth Barometer has carried out a survey commissioned by Wood and Furniture companies. It pointed out that about half of Swedish youths have experienced some kind of pressure from parents or other adults to study a university program. They also point out that young people themselves believe that there is good reason to make vocational training more attractive and to raise the status to make more people want to read these programmes, which are so important. Choosing a vocational programme with higher education qualifications is perhaps one of the best decisions you can make to strengthen your chances in the labour market. Then you get both a professional title and the opportunity to read further if you wish. Madam President, I would like It is important to raise our eyes and see that more reforms are needed. What is being discussed today is not a solution to all the problems. It may sometimes appear from the debate as such. However, many more measures are needed to increase young people's willingness to study vocational education and training. Therefore, the status of the programmes needs to be increased. The influence of the industries on education and training needs to be strengthened and quality also needs to be improved in order to meet the needs and demand of professional skills. Companies need people who are better equipped when they enter the world of work. The Center Party has on several occasions pointed out in this Chamber, in the Parliament's Education Committee and in talks with the government that business schools need to be developed. There are ready-made proposals from the Swedish National Agency for Education that I expect the government to take forward in order to develop and create the conditions for specialist centres for industries. This will enable training throughout the country, but will also further strengthen skills. Furthermore, more vocational teachers are needed so that those who attend a vocational programme are met by qualified and trained vocational teachers. We heard earlier in this House from the Social Democrats that study and career guidance needs to be strengthened. The Center Party fully shares this view. It is worth pointing out that during this term of office the government has had an investigation on its table to strengthen study and career guidance, but not all proposals have been taken further. More effort is needed. The Center Party believes that it is necessary to strengthen study and career guidance so that more people can choose and want to choose a professional programme. There is a trial for those who read a theoretical programme to be able to switch to a final career in sales. So it is in one area. We in the Center Party see reason to increase this experimental activity in the first step. Madam President, I would like I believe that this is the right step to increase the attractiveness of professional programmes. However, in order to meet the high recruitment needs of the labour market – both in the business and public sectors – efforts are also needed in the short term. It is therefore important to ensure that people can study adult education. This will enable us to meet recruitment needs in the short term. As we all know, upper secondary education is currently three years old, and it takes a certain amount of time before students have chosen education and then completed it. There are therefore further efforts to be made in this area, but I will have to come back to that on another occasion.
i-UrRratGB6oFAQj6yXFkHGX	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by addressing the Center Party and the Moderates: listen to the end of my speech before you ask for a reply to me, and perhaps it is not necessary. Madam President, I would like The crucial dividing line between right and left in education policy has always been whether knowledge and education should be reserved for an elite or whether it should be for everyone. This was how the struggle for the introduction of elementary school in the 1840s as well as the introduction of comprehensive school in the 1960s and the extension of upper secondary school in the 1970s stood. It was also the same thought, with deep traces of class contempt towards the working class, that led to the abolition of basic university qualifications under the Reinfeldt government. The idea of the mainstream school was part of the struggle for democracy. Out of this connection was born the realization of knowledge and education as a civic right, common to all and realized in a school for all. The major reform work initiated by the education system in the 1950s meant an increase in the general level of knowledge and a view on learning as a dynamic and workable process guided by educational science and the development of school practice. Systematised collaboration between schools, parents and working life began and developed. The school's learning process would equalise socio-economicly based knowledge differences. Against this reform activity, a conservative reaction emerged with an old elitist human view of stationary differences in the talents of individuals disguised by placard political slogans in order to make it all look like it would benefit school-tired students. Madam President, I would like In the past, about half of upper secondary school pupils attended a vocational preparatory programme. However, since the changes in upper secondary school in 2011, only a third of students now choose a vocational programme. An important part of the change in professional programmes was that they no longer gave basic higher education qualifications, but students would actively choose to add the relevant subjects. On the basis of the social structure of our society and of the national programmes, it was easy to see that this would lead to a social skewed recruitment, and that it would also infect itself later on in higher education. Nevertheless, a majority of the parliamentary parties chose to stick to the new system. For the Left Party, it is important to say that the archaic conception that justified the differences between theoretical and practical professions does not apply in present or future society. Good language skills and understanding are not only important for students of the theoretical programmes; it is also important for those who attend professional programmes. Madam President, I would like For several of the vocational programmes there is also a natural transition and continuation in the form of courses at higher education and university of applied sciences, including in health care and technical education. To continue studying at college should be an opportunity for everyone throughout their lives. It does not need to be exploited by everyone, but the door must be kept open regardless of the choice of upper secondary school programmes that someone has made during their teens. The possibility that has existed up to now to enter higher education qualifications has led to major disadvantages, as it has been much more complex to choose from subjects than what is now proposed in the proposal. Students have had to use individual choices or extended programs to read the points required to obtain higher education qualifications. Although they have done so, they have often not been able to compete for places of study in higher education because they have not been given the opportunity to study courses that have given them merit points. They have thus been given less space to study specific qualifications required to obtain higher education. The Government is now proposing that all students should be guaranteed university qualifications even on the vocational preparatory programmes with the possibility of opting out. That is a line that the Left Party can fully support. I would like to conclude by saying that I am very pleased that, despite ideological differences over the years, we can agree between the Left Party, the Social Democrats and some right-wing parties that this is an important issue for the future if we are to have a competitive labour market, so that companies can ensure that they have the right workforce, but above all because education and knowledge are not just a right for part of our society. The children of the working class also have the right to knowledge and education. The children of the working class can also continue to study at higher education if they so wish. An educated worker with a lot of knowledge is a person who can help develop our society just as the working class once did in Sweden because of the very strong culture tradition that grew in our country.
i-C3rAsTmABq6zj3K8qhxtRd	Madam President, I would like It was a beautiful fire speech to the defense of the education from Daniel Riazat. An important piece of the puzzle in the education that we in the Environmental Party think all students in Swedish upper secondary school should get is access to the aesthetic tools through aesthetic subjects. The Green Party, together with the Social Democrats and the Left Party, was on the side that voted to reintroduce aesthetic subjects on all upper secondary programmes. What is the position of the Left Party in today's vote?
i-5pjS4Ep3WnKZQmJxYdo7Cz	Madam President, I would like Thank you for paying tribute to my speech. When it comes to the question of aesthetic subjects in high school, I dare to say that the Left Party is the party that has put forward that proposal most times in Parliament's Chamber. On one occasion, the Left Party, the Social Democrats and the Green Party have voted in favour of it together. On all other occasions, the Green Party has not voted in favour of the Left Party's proposal to introduce aesthetic subjects as mandatory in all upper secondary programmes. I could put the question back a little bit and say: Why has the Green Party almost never voted for the Left Party's proposal when it comes to aesthetic subjects in high school? But I will not return that question. The reason for this is that we are in complete agreement on the issue. The only thing that separates us is that we believe that the bill we are dealing with today is about the basic university qualifications. But from tomorrow we will continue to push the issue to have aesthetic subjects in high school. I hope the Left Party and the Green Party can do it together.
i-24H4e8mogZkNE9VnSt8shk	Madam President, I would like We have been pushing these issues together for a number of years. I am not entirely sure whether it was a yes or a no from Daniel Riazat on the question of whether the Left Party will vote in favour of the sharp proposal which is also contained in the report we are dealing with today. The report we are dealing with today is about re-establishing higher education qualifications and the possibility of having it as a starting point for all secondary education programmes. It is also about the Green Party's sharp proposal to reintroduce aesthetic subject on all secondary programmes. Yes or no?
i-9hZ6xLxBopwHPQHbvRKnfP	Mr President, I would like to I can only repeat myself and say that the Left Party is nevertheless the party that has pushed this issue the hardest and for the most years in the Swedish Parliament. The Green Party has hardly ever voted in favour of our sharp proposals that we have put to the House when it comes to aesthetics, except for the time when the Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party voted together on the latest bill. It was at the time about both university qualifications and aesthetic programs. In this case, the bill was basically about university qualifications in upper secondary school programmes. Therefore, we from the Left Party chose not to present another motion, which we do in principle every year on aesthetic subjects in high school. We will therefore focus on the university qualifications themselves. We maintain our political view that it is incredibly important for all pupils in upper secondary school to have access to cultural elements and aesthetic subjects. I mentioned earlier in my speech that knowledge and education are incredibly important for all social classes and children from all levels of society. In this case, the same applies to aesthetics. Culture has a value that really cannot be described with words or figures at all. It has a self-worth that we must safeguard. Is there anything we should make sure to reintroduce in hopefully the next parliamentary term or before it is to introduce aesthetic subjects into all upper secondary programmes? Thank you for the suggestion. We support the proposal, but we will not vote in favour of it today because of what the matter is about.
i-R7xPNJuwjJU2g33qk7rRxd	Mr President, I would like to It is entrepreneurs and ordinary people, who every morning cook their coffee and brew the sandwich and then go to work, who build the country strong. Companies create the conditions for health care and welfare to trust when we need society most. The companies provide the police with the opportunity to take back security in streets and squares and in our residential areas. It is therefore important that Sweden has a world-class business environment. But right now we are facing a lack of competence in several industries that threaten Swedish competitiveness. While hundreds of thousands of people lack jobs, entrepreneurs have been warning about the difficulty of finding suitable workers for at least a decade. They even describe it as the biggest growth barrier for companies. Mr President, I would like to Few things are so important to society as the educational system. The fact that school provides both knowledge for life and for a life in the labour market is a prerequisite for society to function. But today's education system has several major problems. We have largely failed to get young people to take courses that actually give jobs. The result is high costs – for people who do not come to work, for employers who do not find the right skills and for small businesses who do not get to see their businesses grow. Vocational education is the form of education most in demand by entrepreneurs. But the proportion who chooses to study vocational programmes in upper secondary school is far too low. This requires that we now assume our responsibilities in order to facilitate young people's entry into the labour market and to strengthen the supply of skills. An important proposal to combat skills shortages is to make basic competence the norm of the country's professional programme. The Christian Democrats want the upper secondary vocational programmes to be extended to their content in order to also be able to grant higher education qualifications, but the possibility of opting out should remain. In this way, we retain the voluntary nature of the students. At the same time, however, we make high expectations the norm, which is a prerequisite for every successful school. We make it easier for those who want higher education qualifications to be able to choose a professional programme. Our party has previously held the view that students who chose professional programmes could read to this competence but that it would not be on the basis. The only reason we made this position was that we thought that more people would then complete high school. We did it because we were worried that so many students dropped out of school and never had to run out with their peers in connection with the student. I'll be honest and say that I remember talking around the kitchen tables at home in Värmland in connection with the reform. There were those who were skeptical. They warned that the attractiveness of professional programmes would be reduced. Not infrequently, these were people who had joined themselves or who were interested in taking vocational programmes. And it turned out they were right. The fact that the qualification has not been the norm has reduced the search pressure for this type of training by one third. That is why the Christian Democrats have changed their position. We are still concerned that too many people are not able to cope with school, but the solution is not to refrain from making basic competences the norm in professional programmes. Instead, more early knowledge checks and support efforts are needed in comprehensive school to enable more people to take the student eventually. Both business and trade unions are behind the proposal on basic competences in the professional programmes, which we are dealing with here today. I, on behalf of the Christian Democrats, support the committee's proposal in the report. We will be voting in favour of the bill and the report of the Committee on Education later today. We do this to make it easier for those students who want to choose professional programmes, and we do it to counteract the skills shortage and strengthen the business environment in Sweden.
i-PifajjxPxAxyoFXmeCQuBy	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for the opportunity to debate such an important issue here today! Sweden needs more skilled professionals to build the country. This is crucial for growth and well-being – and not least for us to be able to meet the labour needs that come with investments in the green industrial revolution. With a shortage of highly skilled workers, this is one of the biggest and most acute problems in the Swedish labour market today. According to Statistics Sweden's forecasts, the demand for upper secondary professionals will be high for a long time to come. Employers in both the private and public sectors are screaming for upper secondary professionals as new jobs emerge and welfare needs to be employed. At the same time, too few young people choose to take a professional programme. Over the last ten years, the number of pupils in vocational programmes has fallen. The tap was dramatic in 2011, when the courses for basic eligibility were removed. The situation has not recovered since then. In 2011, I was headmaster of a secondary school, and I know how the talk went. Not surprisingly, many youths want to keep their doors open for the future. I fully understand that. Sweden can do better. Increasing the attractiveness of upper secondary vocational programmes is crucial for us to be able to get more well-trained employees to the companies so that they can grow and be competitive. We need more skilled professional workers who strengthen Sweden: electricians, professional drivers, plumbers, house builders, cooks, carers – yes, the list can be made long in professional groups that can be trained in high school and that are in demand in the Swedish labour market. At the same time, we know that many young people are considering going to a vocational programme today, but are opting out because they feel uncertain about whether it will be possible to enter higher education qualifications. When the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise asked young people themselves, just over a third of the students who attended a university preparatory programme said that they had considered a professional programme. When asked why they opted out of vocational programmes, more than half replied that it was about basic competences and that it was not automatically included in professional programmes. Now we are doing what the students and industries are asking for: we are modernising the professional programmes so that they become more attractive and so that young people can choose education that is guaranteed to lead to jobs, but which also keeps the doors of the future open. By introducing the subjects of basic competence to be included in the professional programmes from the start, we send out signals to parents and students that the professional programmes offer opportunities both in the short and long term. I am convinced that these changes will help more people to apply for the professional programmes. The industries agree. They know that this is a key issue in increasing the attractiveness of vocational education and training. They have also pushed for reforms to be implemented. Now that Parliament is going to vote on the proposals, I very much hope that a majority of Members of Parliament will support these necessary improvements. That sounds positive from the signals I have heard here today.
i-AniMEWMaTaXabmfBsMCMqM	Mr President, I would like to First of all, let me thank the Government for taking the time to be here and taking part in the debate. It is probably also the first debate on a proposal, if I understood correctly. We like that, and we are happy to see it more from the committee's side. Some time ago, the National Agency for Education presented a report showing that students leaving comprehensive school with weak grades have a good chance of passing upper secondary school if they are studying a vocational programme. I believe that 22 per cent of the students who had grades between Stage F and E were able to graduate in higher education programmes within three years, while 42 per cent of those who completed vocational programmes were graduates within three years. If you look at the grade steps E–D, you can see that 49 per cent of the students in preparatory programmes graduated within three years, while 74 per cent of those attending vocational programmes did. This shows that vocational programmes play an important role and that students with weak grades from comprehensive school are doing very well in comparison with upper secondary school, even though we have a system where you do not get a basic qualification to the university. The Swedish National Agency for Education has been critical of the reform and that it will lead to lower throughput rates. Then the question is: What does the Government think will happen with the throughput when these students have an increasingly heavy workload with theoretical studies?
i-Djxaxt7ie7gydYv4CRjAPe	Mr President, I would like to First of all, it is important to know that you can opt out of the theoretical parts if they weigh heavily. The basic problem, however, is that I hear that the Swedish democrats are constantly talking about the professional programmes of the school-tired, the school-weary and those who do not fit in with the system. I'd like to turn that around. Without professionals, Sweden stays. Vocational training is for those who want a job early. Perhaps the fastest way to become CEO today is to take a professional program, acquire good knowledge and then start your business. I believe that this reform will allow us to have more students attending vocational programmes. They'll support each other. And for those who are tired of the theoretical subjects, it should be possible to opt them out. I would like to give an example of how things have been up to now. Sofia studies to bakers, and she and one more were the only ones who wanted this opportunity to go to a university program later. Therefore, it was very difficult for the Vice-Chancellor and other teachers to make sure that they got it. They chose to cancel the training. Now we all give an opportunity to fit in. Vocational programmes are not for the weak and the tired. It's about everyone. It is about getting started a good and meaningful working life early and actually being able to get a job.
i-3MX15sbNHZehPhuzzWSA7n	Mr President, I would like to I note that the Minister of Education joins in the multitude of ministers who distort and generalise our approach to things. I am sorry about this. Nevertheless, I had hopes that we might have a school minister who did not do that, but those hopes were dashed in the first shift. We're not just talking about school-tired and lack of study. But what we can say is that students who are strong at study are able to make it regardless of what they choose. Some may choose a professional program. After all, there are those who are interested in it, perhaps precisely because they do not want to continue to read theoretical subjects. Maybe they're good at pictures, technology or something else and want to use their hands, become masons or electricians-- which we need so much. Studyable students can manage regardless of which education they choose. This is also shown by the Swedish National Agency for Education's report. However, undergraduate students do better on vocational programmes. I didn't get an answer on how the minister views the pass-through time. The Swedish National Agency for Education is clear in its criticism: This will affect throughput time. This will cause problems in obtaining a degree within three years. That's not a good policy, is it? We're gonna give young people chances, all the chances there are. We'll make sure they're trained for what they want to be. But we're not gonna put them in the same shape. We need to realize that students are different, and we need to acknowledge those differences. We must realise that there are those who are easy at school and also those who leave school with poor prior knowledge. We are not doing them a favour by forcing them to read theoretical subjects if they do not want to. On the contrary, it will be a disaster.
i-3KkgKZyTSGgwjX2UqBjPNU	Mr President, I would like to I guess it's pretty clear that Patrick Reslow is the only one who has this approach. I guess that says something. What we know today is that there are many who would like to have attended a professional programme but who did not quite dare. You want to keep the doors open. You don't want to be in a box in being the weak schoolboy. You might change your way through life. You may want to be able to start higher education later in life, when it suits you. You want doors open, but you might also want to get a job. Now we are forcing these people into theoretical education where they have weak opportunities to come to their own. It is better that we have this opportunity: to take a professional programme and get a higher education qualification. I don't understand what this is really about. That is why I am a little surprised when I think of the voters of the Swedish Democrats. Short professional programmes, which no one in industry organisations wants to see, the Swedish Democrats want – short professional programmes that box in people so that they have few opportunities to move on later in life. When we ask industry organisations if they want to see two-year professional programmes, everyone says no. They want well-educated people who can read and write and have professional skills. Therefore, it is important that we have an education that does not shut out many young people from vocational education and training, but opens them up to more people, so that we do not have to become dependent on labour immigration or that Swedish companies move abroad because there is a shortage in Sweden.
i-85eopChimqubPznqCcqwbz	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! And welcome, all students in the gallery! It is not often that we have such a large audience when we debate in the Social Security Committee. It is usually an empty sea in front of you, Mr President, except even colleagues from the committee. Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1. As a result of reduced reception of asylum seekers and reduced funding, the Migration Agency has had to make substantial reductions during the period 2016-2020. The Swedish National Audit Office's report shows that the severe reductions in the resources allocated by the Finnish Immigration Service have led to the agency's failure to meet its stated objectives. From the Moderates' side, we are critical of the fact that significantly reduced funding has resulted in the Migration Agency not achieving the goals set. This shows that the government has failed in its governance and follow-up of the agency. Substantially reduced funding has led to a major change in the Migration Agency. In the event of a major change, there may be concern among the employees. This is clearly demonstrated by the fact that it has not been possible to retain competent staff. Good staff have left the authority, either to other authorities or to the business community. When concerns arise at such an important authority as the Migration Agency, it is incredibly important that the experiences of the refugee crisis in 2015 are not repeated. When a rapid rescheduling is carried out due to a significant reduction in funding, it has consequences for the matters handled by the Migration Agency. After all, an asylum seeker is not just seeking temporary protection. A temporary residence permit shall be transferred to a permanent residence permit. If it has been at least five years under current legislation and you have lived an honest life, the person will seek citizenship. A case can therefore lead to several cases over time. Another criticism that we share with the Swedish National Audit Office is about the shortcomings the Migration Agency has had in its internal control and control when it comes to tracing movable property. During this major transformation, the Migration Agency has not only had to make staff reductions; it has also had to close down premises and assets. There has been a need to move between premises and merge operations. In the midst of all this relocation, there have been cases where people do not know what happened to movable property such as mobile phones and computers. It has not been possible to trace whether they have been stolen, disappeared or are still in business. You just don't know. With the fact that you have not been able to trace, you do not know if a computer that has been used in Norrköping is used by the same or another employee in Stockholm or if it has disappeared. This is incredibly important given that this is movable property that can contain both classified information and privacy sensitive information. In our troubled world, we also know, if we have listened to our security service, that there are foreign powers involved in refugee espionage. It can go very badly if movable property with that kind of information ends up in the wrong hands. However, the Swedish National Audit Office also points to the fact that since 2019 the Migration Agency has strengthened these controls, and then it is incredibly important not only to point to legislation that the government does but also to follow up. Follow-up is to follow the operational. Sometimes we think from politics that we have made law, sent money and set goals, but we also have to remember that all of this will be put into practice. Practice and theory do not always go hand in hand, and therefore it is incredibly important that you also follow the operational, because it is in what the outcome comes.
i-US5Qk2NuqUPuGbEnatKE8	Mr President, I would like to It is a central task for Sweden to have a reception that works for the people who come here. Both people on the run and our society as a whole benefit if we succeed in a dignified reception that provides good conditions for the future. It is therefore of the utmost importance that the public take a great deal of responsibility and are given the right conditions for it. The Left Party has long demanded a robust reception with better preparedness and stronger capacity. Unfortunately, the government has done the opposite. Since the introduction of the shameful so-called breathing room, the reception of asylum has been dismantled piece by piece, and the conditions for those fleeing have deteriorated. Now we are in a situation where preparedness is significantly worse than it was in 2015. In recent years, the Finnish Immigration Service has undergone a large and rapid reduction. Manning has been drastically reduced, and many asylum homes have been dismantled. The results are clearly visible when Ukrainians are forced to queue for days outside the Migration Agency and at the administrators who work feverishly to get along. Capacity is simply undersized. The reduction has meant that the Migration Agency has difficulty reaching its goals regarding, for example, processing times, service and accessibility. Seeking asylum is an extreme experience. The future of the asylum seeker lies in the hands of the Migration Agency, and a long and uncertain waiting for a decision on the asylum application is one of the most important contributing factors to the lack of health of asylum seekers. Long processing times lead, for example, in connection cases to families being forced to live separately. Lack of availability and service reinforces the already difficult uncertainty of waiting for life decisions. The phasing out of asylum accommodation has also led to asylum seekers being forced to move between residences in different parts of the country and not being given a reasonable chance to establish themselves in the local community. With long processing times, this has hit school children who have had to change class, sometimes several times, extra hard. These consequences of the reductions of the Finnish Immigration Service have thus had a negative impact on integration, which according to the Government is a priority issue. Against this background, it is incomprehensible that the government does not show a greater interest in examining how barriers to more effective reception and better functioning integration can be removed. Mr President, I would like to The report we are debating today also criticises the staff reductions that have not been implemented effectively. It is also confirmed by the trade union which supports the criticism and believes that there have been obvious miscalculations and unrealistic expectations when there is concern throughout the organisation. Concern was also compounded by the fact that the employer did not always go after the period of employment when deciding on redundancy, which created enormous problems for the working environment. In addition, the problems of long processing times worsened when far more than those laid off left the Migration Board for these reasons. Against this background, Mr President, the Left Party believes that the government should carry out a broader investigation into the consequences of the reductions of the Migration Board, and I therefore call for reservation 4.
i-KVuWr9kFv1VWFw4bqZogB8	Mr President, I would like to When Russia invaded Ukraine unprovoked, the Migration Board was about to dismantle another thousand settlements. The Migration Agency is undoubtedly an authority that has faced the greatest challenges. The migration crisis of 2015 – 2016 would rapidly expand its capacity and then rapidly shrink its suit in the face of a completely new situation, as well as the pandemic that the world has had to deal with further sharpened. I would therefore like to say that we are now discussing an authority that has been facing enormous challenges in recent years and that, of course, I think, this should be recorded in our assessments. The basis for this discussion is the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the reductions at the Finnish Immigration Service 2017 – 2020. In the report, sharp criticism is directed at both the Migration Agency and the Government for handling the reductions at the Migration Agency. The Swedish National Audit Office states that it has failed to make good use of state resources. During the years under review, the Finnish Immigration Service has had problems in achieving its goals, not least regarding review activities, services and accessibility. But as I said, the agency has had to deal with the fastest reduction in Swedish government in many years. The Swedish National Audit Office estimates that the Migration Agency but also the Government has overestimated the agency's ability to increase productivity and implement the transformation while reducing resources. Mr President, I would like to We from the Christian Democrats have highlighted some points that the Swedish National Audit Office points out and that we believe there is reason for us in the Riksdag to address. First of all, the Migration Agency and the Government must give priority in various ways to the capacity of the work in both the short and the long term. One consequence of the cuts in resources imposed on the Migration Agency has been that people have been cut back and thus lost a lot of skills. Staff have been reduced by one in three employees over these four years. However, this has not only been due to a reduction in the financial framework, but the Swedish National Audit Office also points out that the Migration Agency's communication has not been sufficiently transparent and clear, which has led to several people having chosen to stop prematurely. Competence has thus also been uncalled for by the Migration Agency. This has had a number of negative effects on productivity, but it also means that legal certainty in the assessment work can be affected and thus control over who is right and who is not entitled to be in Sweden. Secondly, the liquidation of assets in the form of movable property must be ensured. I think it is very serious reading that, for example, it is not possible to trace what has happened to movable property such as IT equipment and mobile phones. In this form of apparatus there may be sensitive information, classified information, which may have fallen into the wrong hands. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that irregularities cannot be excluded. The fact that IT equipment and mobile phones are lost without trace is particularly serious. Information security has thus failed, and we believe that it needs to be investigated more closely. The Swedish National Audit Office proposes that the Government introduce new support functions for the resolution of state assets. The Government does not share the Swedish National Audit Office's assessment and at the same time rejects responsibility for the safety deficiencies in the liquidation of assets. It is true, as the government points out in its reply, that there is legislation that regulates information security issues. But we Christian Democrats do not share the government's view that this legislation is sufficient. We believe that the government can do more to make it easier for authorities to effectively, correctly and safely liquidate assets and therefore propose that the government review its approach to supporting the authorities' security work. I think it is quite obvious, for everyone who has chosen to read the Swedish National Audit Office's report, that more can and should be done. I therefore support reservation number 3. The Christian Democrats note, Mr President, that on several points the Migration Board has failed to change. It is a change that has been made during very sharp cuts. However, for the sake of clarity, I would also like to add that we note that the ultimate responsibility of course rests with the government. It is the government that is responsible for governing the authority, which in some cases may mean using the brake. In fact, I think that the government recognises this when it is argued that the agency must be given adequate planning conditions when extensive conversions are required. That has not been the case.
i-T2skTYyXhGgkiWN3uZJedC	Mr President, I would like to I think we should be honest about the Migration Agency being an authority that is sometimes treated in a stepmotherly manner. They have an extremely difficult mission. When things happen in the outside world, over which neither Sweden nor even less the authority itself rules, they must quickly change. There may be more refugees, and then the work must be expanded and quickly increased capacity. There may also be fewer refugees, and then they will have reduced funding and need to make such a change. At all times, no matter what, there are high demands on legal certainty but also on the speed of the processes. There are also statutory time requirements for several of them. Since the Swedish National Audit Office made the review report that we are now discussing and even since the government came up with its answer to the report, a lot has happened in our part of the world. Russia's unjust invasion war against Ukraine has meant that 10 million people have fled their homes. Some have fled within the country, but many of them have fled to the EU. Some of them have also fled to Sweden. The activation of the mass refugee directive means that those coming from Ukraine will not burden the asylum facility process as a whole. But, of course, it has enormous consequences for the authority in other ways. This applies not least to the housing issue but also to other parts. Mr President, I would like to State authorities shall operate efficiently and cost-effectively. In this case, the desire and ambition for a rapid increase in efficiency during the 2017–2020 period has been greater than has actually been possible. There are lessons to be learned for the future, including for other authorities. The important question is how to make efficiency improvements in the best possible way. Is it possible to make rapid changes for public authorities through major financial cuts from financial year to financial year? There have been and still are problems and challenges at the Migration Agency with long processing times. Right now, the waiting time for citizenship, for those who qualify, is very long. In the past, the time for the actual asylum procedure was very long. Before the war, the Migration Board itself thought that it would be in balance in a few years' time. With the new thing that has happened in the world, we will follow whether it is a forecast that stands or if it needs to be reworked. It is not far-fetched to imagine that, in view of what has happened, the Migration Board will need more resources, Mr President. I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 4. The government should set up a public investigation in which other aspects than those identified in this report should also be highlighted. It is about the impact on society as a whole as well as on those who have been involved in the reception activities and processes.
i-FoiyLMsuVYWu4wtzgd5EPo	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the Social Security Committee's report No 15 to be approved. The national audit report, which forms the basis of the report, together with the Government's letter, is an important basis both for the entire government governance and for the authorities in dealing with rapid change. I think that the report should be seen in this way and not just as a report describing what lessons the Migration Agency needs to learn or the recommendations that exist to the Financial Control Agency, the Employers' Agency or, for that matter, the Government. It should be seen as an important report for the entire state organisation on what to think about and how to organise work in the event of rapid change in operations. This report actually takes its starting point in the refugee crisis of 2015 and the situation that followed it. But it is clear that we are also discussing it in a situation where the Migration Board needs to increase further. Furthermore, we have just got through a similar situation, but that involved another authority. During the pandemic, which hopefully soon has come through, we have seen a similar burden and situation, this time at Försäkringskassan. Now we are seeing once again a sharp increase in the operations of the Migration Agency, which will be difficult for the agency to manage. I think what we see and what the committee meets when we meet the Migration Agency is that lessons have been learned from the situation after 2015. But just because you've learned lessons, it's not always easy to do it perfectly next time. The rapid increase in activity is a burden, just as it is a burden when it decreases, as was the case in this report. One of the lessons I think one can learn is how the authorities can back each other up. During the pandemic, we saw that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency initiated early cooperation with many other authorities in order to be able to use staff. For example, the Finnish Immigration Service – when we are discussing this – was one of the authorities who early said that they could contribute staff to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, so that they could carry out their mission. These are clear and good examples of how to work across government boundaries to meet the challenges. Why am I saying this with regard to this report? Well, it is easy for us to look after and be a little critical of what has happened and that we have not achieved all the goals that we wanted to achieve. At the same time, however, when we are discussing the preconditions for the authorities, very few parties are prepared to allocate resources to retain 100 000 seats when there is a need for 18 000 or to retain 9 000 employees at the Migration Agency, as it was for a period of 2015 – 2016, instead of 4 500 employees that the budget allows. In retrospect, different parties can therefore say that this was not good and that it should have been handled in some other way. But what I have seen are the same parties as when we discuss the budget are rather eager to add less money to the Migration Agency. The government's responsibility is great, as the previous speaker has described. The Government also comments on the recommendations made by the Swedish National Audit Office to the Government in its letter. Now there are some descriptions from the opposition that you take nothing to heart and that you only refer to the regulations that exist. But that's not really true. It is clear that the government takes on board the criticism that exists. The Government is also keen to have a clearer governance of the Migration Agency as well as other authorities. Therefore, Statskontoret has been tasked with following the Migration Agency and supporting the Migration Agency's governance, which has also produced results. The Swedish National Audit Office's report points to the two areas that have been raised here. It is about skills development in one case and equipment in the other. The Swedish National Audit Office's report indicates that the Migration Agency and the Government have taken measures, and it is estimated that control is much better now. But it is clear that Statskontoret's mission is important. It is both a matter of supporting the Migration Agency with recommendations and of monitoring the operations. Finally, I would just like to mention something about the consequences of the conversion process. It is clear that there will be consequences of such conversion work. When productivity, if you can use that word in this context, does not increase and efficiency does not become what you had hoped for, the open cases become more and the processing times become longer. We can then look at the Government's budget for the current year, which also describes the achievement of the objectives of the Migration Agency. There we can see that the number of open cases is smaller, i.e. you are able to graze the queues you have. Then the number of cases that you do not have time for within a constitutionally governed time increases a little. But it is a natural consequence of grazing queues with old errands. All the queues of old cases contain matters that have all exceeded the constitutionally governed times. So there is a natural consequence of this. I think you should see the positive. When you bite the queues you will also come down in constitutionally controlled times. There is much to be said about this matter. I believe that this debate should be tackled with a great deal of humility. Now we are faced with a situation in which the Migration Agency needs to re-screw its operations. We have a situation where the number of people fleeing Ukraine and coming to Sweden right now is at a manageable level and perhaps a little under the worst scenarios we have planned for. At the same time, however, we have a development in which we absolutely do not know what is going on in the future. We do not know how long the conflict will last. We do not know what impact it will have on the Finnish Immigration Service's operations. That is why I think we should have a great deal of humility with us when we discuss this hugely difficult mission. The alternative to that humility – and I am looking at Christian Democrats and Moderates among other things – is to add far more financial resources to the Migration Agency in its draft budgets, so that it has an overcapacity even when we have a lower reception. I haven't seen that yet. Let's see if I see it in the future. With that, Mr President, I would once again like to endorse the committee's proposal in the report.
i-6uqGLwPmceFo8jwhcx1SNM	Mr President, I would like to In 2015 and 2016 Sweden faced large refugee flows. Sweden was then an open arms for people who sought refuge in our country from war and oppression. The Finnish Immigration Service then had to scale up its operations quickly and tremendously. Since the Swedish National Audit Office's review was carried out and since we started the treatment in Parliament's Social Security Committee, we have ended up in a new migration crisis, where Ukrainians are forced to flee Putin's bombs. This makes it all the more urgent that we learn lessons from the conclusions of the Swedish National Audit Office's report, so that we do not make the same mistake again when the Migration Agency now needs to scale up its operations quickly and much. That the Migration Agency needed to scale up its operations in 2015 and then faced a large scale-down was, and is, natural. This is the case in an activity that, like the Migration Agency, is affected by our environment. This was, of course, a very extreme and difficult situation. It is therefore unsurprising, I think, that the Swedish National Audit Office notes that the transformation has not been satisfactorily controlled and carried out. However, this does not make criticism any less urgent. Furthermore, I note that there is a difficult balance between a rapid transition and a satisfactory transition, where, for example, the Authority is not faced with a significant loss of competence. As I said, it will be a different time to discuss this report given the terrible war of invasion that Putin is now waging in Ukraine. It is of the utmost importance that the Government acts swiftly and that at the same time lessons are learned from the conclusions that the National Audit Office has come up with in its report, so that we do not end up in similar problems as we ended up in when this was last carried out. Having said that, I would like to support the committee's proposal.
i-MRChaW8tscWAeL2cmJEbMy	Madam President, I would like We are, of course, behind all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation number 3 of the Moderates. Madam President, I would like Only two hours from here the Russian bombs are now falling on Ukraine's population – South Swedish municipalities are thus closer to the war's Ukraine than Swedish ski resorts. This weekend we were able to take part in disgusting images of Russian mass killings of civilians and rapes of defenseless young women and mothers. We now have to deal with the worst refugee situation in Europe since the Second World War. The vast majority who flee are women, children and the elderly. Most men, and also many women, remain and fight for the freedom of their country and, by extension, of other countries, including Sweden. Sweden will of course help Ukraine in many ways. An important help is to provide protection for those who are fleeing, not least in view of the fact that the war is taking place in Europe, that is, in our absolute neighbourhood. Those who have so far arrived, Madam President, are relatively well educated. The proportion of adults with upper secondary education is higher in Ukraine than in Sweden. They speak English to a large extent. And women from Ukraine are working to a much greater extent than in the countries of origin of migration flows from 2015 onwards. Madam President, I would like Sweden's irresponsible and unsustainable management of precisely the 2015 migration flows, and wrong priorities there, have already severely reduced our ability to provide the necessary assistance today. Madam President, I would like Immigration should be good for Sweden. It should be useful for Sweden and for those who live, live and work here. Swedish politics has never taken integration problems seriously. That is why the necessary political decisions have not been taken. The result has been a deep exclusion among many immigrants. For a country like Sweden, successful internationalisation is a matter of survival. Our world-leading companies enrich other countries, and hundreds of thousands of people have come here over the years to enrich our country with culture, knowledge, entrepreneurship and tax money. It is crucial to our success. But Sweden has for a long time failed with integration while more and more people have come here. Today, every fifth person is born abroad, and only over 400 000 asylum-related residence permits have been granted in the last ten years. Politicians have been hoping for decades that everything will go well but not done what is necessary. The result is dangerous alienation among many immigrants. Madam President, I would like Figures from the Parliamentary Investigation Service, which we Moderates have produced, show that 675 000 adults who have immigrated are not self-sufficient. Too many people depend on subsidies for their livelihoods. It leads to a life of exclusion with children who never see their parents go to work and women who never become independent. Sweden is the second worst in Europe in terms of the employment gap between domestic and foreign born. Sweden is also the country where it pays the least to work and go from grants to work. The failure of integration affects our entire society in the form of housing segregation, unemployment and dependency on benefits. It is also to a quite large extent the basis for poor school scores, gang crime, honour repression and radicalisation. Madam President, I would like During her seven years as Minister of Finance, Magdalena Andersson has been the main architect of the failed policy. Now it's called that we turn all the stones around. This is the new point of reference from the Social Democratic party headquarters on Sveavägen. These are the stones that they themselves have hidden under in denial of all social problems – everything from integration and migration to crime and long-term unemployment. And under the first stone we find Morgan Johansson. Madam President, I would like All you do is blame yourself on the one hand and deny reality on the other. One of the most important tasks of our time is to reverse developments. It requires a shift of course, and above all it requires a new government. First of all, we need to have a vision of problems. Since the 1970s, a fundamental idea in Swedish politics has been that integration is about a process from two directions, where both immigrants and natives will be integrated into a new, multicultural society. That approach leads us wrong, Madam President. It is about respecting and adapting to the laws, customs and practices that apply in Sweden. If Sweden is to succeed in integration, we must both raise the level of ambition and measure how it actually works. Therefore, we Moderates propose a new overall goal, namely that immigration should be good for Sweden as a whole – not for every individual or every year but as a whole and over time. As in other areas, the legitimacy of immigration and integration policy is based on the fact that it makes Sweden better, not worse. In order to evaluate the new integration policy on an ongoing basis, we propose two concrete measures: firstly, the degree of self-sufficiency, which is not just employment, and secondly, the number of people who speak intelligible Swedish. A perfect Swedish is overrated, but an understandable Swedish is underestimated. Like the fiscal and climate policy frameworks, the measures should be followed up by the Government reporting annually to the Riksdag how things have gone and what decisions should be made to achieve and move forward. Integration does not take place in any kind of vacuum, but is, of course, directly related to migration. Sweden needs a policy that results in sustainable migration, including through clear supply requirements for family migration and that immigrants gradually qualify for benefits and welfare benefits through work in Sweden. Madam President, I would like Let me conclude by saying that I have now listed only a small part of what we Moderates are proposing for a long-term sustainable integration policy. In Sweden, everyone should be able to build a good future for themselves and their children. Today, however, the failure of integration divides our society in a dangerous way. It concerns our entire country and all of us who live here in Sweden. However, we are convinced that it is possible to reverse developments and bring a majority of the Swedish people – quite independently of their origin – to a new, better course.
i-H6XdNwsn4NdqnEG4TFP8k	Madam President, I would like The political orientation of integration in Sweden has so far been based on the assessment of Swedishness as something inferior that does not need to be respected, that our traditions are a bit silly and that we should all adapt to the new, multicultural Sweden. This policy has not been very successful. There's something broken in our dear country. Happy street. You're almost gone. Our cohesion, our common ground and our trust in each other as fellow human beings have been replaced by a broken society where it is now being pushed every day. Our place on earth is no longer safe. In the wake of a completely broken immigration policy, governing parties have come up with some innovative solutions to try to deal with the unsustainable situation. When municipalities' voluntary reception did not benefit from the influx of new arrivals, a mandatory law was introduced which instead directs them to different municipalities. The introduction of the Housing Act by the State is a serious interference with local government. The economy of municipalities has been adversely affected, as the need for support for livelihoods has increased with the arrival of new arrivals. The Housing Act has also meant displacement effects on the housing market. According to the Swedish National Audit Office's review, there are municipalities that give newly arrived first priority in the housing queue, which means that other residents have to endure a considerably longer waiting for their own home while some poor pensioners worry about where they are going to sleep tonight. The residence law must be abolished. Madam President, I would like Our welfare society, which has long evolved and developed, has been built on a social contract. The citizens of the small country have often felt it worthwhile to first do their duty and work to then have the right to safe schooling for children, world-class health care for the family and a good care for parents who need it. The welfare society aims to contribute to the common tax cake and then gain access to its benefits. Of course, the capacity of newcomers to enter the labour market arena differs widely. There are those who learn the language quickly, educate themselves and make themselves employable. There are also those who never become part of either our society in general or the labour market in particular. The establishment of newly arrived women is of particular concern, and they are often very far removed from the labour market. For decades, the other parties have repeatedly shown that they have lost control of the construction of society and that they have no plan. Money is being poured into meaningless integration projects, which have not been successful before and still are not. But the money keeps rolling out. Madam President, I would like It's not going very well now. That is why I am in favour of our Amendment No 1, which deals with changing the objectives and direction of integration policy. The strange thing is that the social construction of the other parties has caused people to fear going out in the evenings while continuing to vote for parties that have built the society that makes them afraid to go out in the evenings. It's a so-called equation that's hard to understand. I would like to remind you that my party is not responsible for having driven Sweden in a direction where the children of reality are subjected to personal robbery and threatened to life with a knife or other aggressors, where older people are tricked into letting criminals into their own home and where gang crime is increasing. Give us the chance to change this! It's time to hand over the baton to us. The Swedish Democrats have repeatedly proved that we have seen the problems coming and are capable of taking responsibility and, above all, that we have a plan. Our solution is, among other things, that those who immigrants to Sweden and are deemed to have reason to stay here take on our Swedish culture, submit our laws and adapt to our Western values. If you don't want that, you shouldn't live here either. Parallel social structures with foreign medieval, anti-female values are not an option in the governance of our dear Sweden. Our integration policy aims are rights, opportunities and obligations in relation to establishment, adaptation and own effort. The Social Conservative Foundation of the Swedish Democrats is to create stability and community. Basic to succeed in this is, among other things, to realise that culture plays a central role in the development of society as well as that the nation bears a common and strong history. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats are the guarantor of a Sweden that is a safe and secure place for citizens to live and work. It will take hard work to succeed, but we are ready. Our key words for integration policy are change, forward, together – for security and tradition, for a proud and united Sweden.
i-NawaKSUHeELQpYvzQyvTSb	Madam President, I would like Sometimes you can be glad that we do not have a free line right in this House. Then you have time to find out whether Mats Green has suddenly become a Swedish Democrat or whether he still represents the bourgeois party with which I was once proud to cooperate. There is also time to summarise the integration policy of the Swedish Democrats. I have three words to say: xenophobia, xenophobia and xenophobia. All the world's problems stem from immigration, Sweden is pitch black, everything is shit. Today we are debating the report by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs on this year's activities in the field of integration. I am, of course, in favour of all our requests in the report, but for time to come, I am only in favour of the Center Party's reservation number 5. I shall also make today's speech brief – not because the debate on the subject is not important but because it is not the subject matter we are actually debating. That's a shame, I think. The issue is too important not to be given the time it deserves. In my opinion, the basic problem is that we mean different things when we talk about integration. For me as a center party and liberal, it is enough for people to speak the language, have a job, support themselves and take responsibility for the common. For a Swedish democrat, it is obviously more important that the person prays to the right god, eats herring and potatoes for midsummer and looks at melo on Saturdays– or sorry, it was someone who pointed out that Swedish democrats do not like melo, so I take it back. In other words, it is not surprising that we rarely understand each other. Madam President, I would like The meta-debates – for lack of facts and knowledge, we devote ourselves to things that make no difference. I would have liked to have stood here today and said that we take responsibility for achieving a more even distribution of reception across our beautiful country. But my colleagues did not even want to have an unconditional review of the harshly criticised settlement law. It is legislation which, by the way, covers just under 10% of total reception and which has more holes than a Swiss cheese – sin. I shall, however, seize this opportunity and strike a blow to the need for a review of that legislation. It was needed yesterday, and it's needed tomorrow, too. Now comes the next wave of refugees. And in the future, history will tell us that there will be new waves of refugees, regardless of what the Swedish Democrats think of it. Between these periods we need to build structures that last, learn from what did not work last time and make sure not to reinvent the wheel. Speaking of this, Madam President, one might ask why the government has been given a feeling and is going to create a completely new, parallel system for the reception of Ukrainian refugees. Now they will be distributed according to a new system. Why not use what's there? I don't like the current model, but it already exists. You can always screw in what's there; it's the fastest way. The same applies to the municipal provisions for reception. There is a system of flat-rate payments that is automatic and fast. Instead, we should allow the municipalities to act as banks for the state again and allow the invoices to become administratively burdensome and salted. Do you remember when the municipalities in 2015 had to use the check-credit to pay salaries? Oh, my God, I'm telling you. To conclude, I would like to emphasise further obvious points. The Ukrainian refugees are not from another planet. They do not differ from the refugees from Syria or Iraq during the previous refugee crisis or from those who came during the previous crisis in the 1990s or during the previous crisis in the 1970s. I can do it for a long time. They need to be provided with language and start-up measures. Hiding behind a mass refugee directive that only regulates the asylum process itself is not only cowardly but directly counterproductive. Madam President, I would like Now I'm going to deal with more important things than to say obvious things.
i-4j96EuwYKntmi2yquBC5aA	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by requesting the approval of reservation number 6. The Social Democratic Government has given us a shift in our view of rights and integration. From seeing rights as a path to integration, a majority in the Riksdag, led by the Social Democrats, chose to use the evasion of rights as a way of trying to scare people away on the run. The S-led government thus takes us from the view of rights that the labour movement has fought for since the beginning, where rights are seen as a tool to remove obstacles to equality and inclusion. Instead, a right-wing utopia is introduced, where rights are a reward for those who, despite all the difficulties, manage to get through locked doors and integrate themselves in the way that pleases the rulers at the moment. Madam President, I would like By portraying those seeking protection here as a threat and a burden, it will be easier to condition well-being and deny them rights. The right wants to cut back on the security systems for everyone, and it is easiest to start with these groups. To their aid, they take a party that bases its policy on racist ideas. And racism, Madam President, is one of the biggest barriers to integration we have in Sweden. Unfortunately, the Social Democrats have also adopted it to some extent. This is clearly reflected in their proposals on how to limit new arrivals' entitlement to compensation and grants. By portraying those seeking protection here as a threat and a burden, they will be easier to attack, and it will be easier to deny them their rights. Basically, the right wing wants to cut back on the security systems for everyone – it is classic right-wing politics – and it is easy to do so for these groups, as I said. That is why we start there, and then we say that they are not integrated. Work is an important part of getting into society, but it can't be just any job and never at all. Fair pay, good working conditions and workable collective agreements must be at the heart of all job creation efforts. Madam President, I would like The media image of the entry of new arrivals into the labour market is often excessively pessimistic, partly due to unreasonable expectations and a lack of understanding of the challenges of coming to a new society after leaving their home country. But it is also because there is a political agenda behind exaggerating the problems and challenges. The discrimination against foreign born children, which affects those born outside Europe in particular and who hit Africans and people with backgrounds in the Middle East, is well known in Sweden by now. This discrimination exists in all parts of society, including in the labour and housing markets, and is one of the main obstacles to the establishment of newcomers. In addition to combating discrimination, it is crucial for newcomers to establish themselves on the labour market that there are jobs to apply for and that those who are new in the country are given good opportunities to supplement their previous knowledge and experience with the knowledge required in the Swedish labour market. Madam President, I would like It blows cold and racist winds through Sweden and Europe. But we in the Left Party want to see another Sweden and another Europe. We want Sweden to be able to leave today's trials with pride and that in the future we should know that we did everything in our power to provide protection and security for those who are currently fighting to escape the horrors of war. For the Left Party, the question is never whether we should give protection to those who need it. The Left Party wants to create the best opportunities for people to be protected from war, oppression and persecution and to be included in our society. A joint, welcoming and dignified reception of refugees is a national commitment. It is something that we as a country have decided to do and that we take on together. The Left Party wants the state to have overall responsibility for the reception of persons in need of protection in Sweden. Although it is the municipalities that are in practice implementing a large part of the efforts required for a good reception and a functioning establishment in society, the state has overall responsibility for its functioning. The state must therefore ensure that the municipalities have the right conditions for carrying out their tasks, both financially and practically. To this end, the reception shall have clear national governance and adequate state funding. Finally, Madam President: for me, integration – or rather inclusion – is about us all, born here or moved in, being given rights and conditions to have the same standard of living and life chances. It is about freeing people's future from the background they have so that they get the freedom to live on equal terms and are given the chances of life to which they are entitled. A policy that strengthens people's rights and opportunities is the strongest integration engine we have. This is how we build a more equal and stronger society. Sweden's recipe for success is a policy that seems inclusive to the population during different parts of life. It is about the welfare and social security system that will create conditions throughout life, from childcare and education systems to health care, unemployment and health insurance, and access to housing and welfare services. Madam President, I would like So it is not possible to talk about integration without talking about general welfare. It is central to upholding the rights that it is our duty to safeguard. This is also how we create the fastest and most effective opportunity for newly arrived people to enter Swedish society.
i-K5NasiaFoupxEWx7idxL31	Madam President, I would like 中 Community is a word that describes how we Christian Democrats want to build Sweden – community for everyone, not just some. The Christian Democratic integration policy is based on good values and community. The difference between immigration and integration is that the former means that someone comes into the country and that the latter means that you become part of society. We have used and consciously use the word We are a word that binds together and we are making the stranger a neighbour. Community is therefore based on an all-encompassing community. Madam President, I would like We can all see that far too few people who have participated in start-up programmes have come sufficiently far in their integration to get a job or have the language skills to go on with regular training. We Christian Democrats therefore want a flexible establishment programme. The first two years of such a flexible establishment programme shall be compulsory, and this part of the programme shall be largely devoted to Swedish education, social orientation and labour market preparatory education. It is therefore of particular importance for everyone who comes to Sweden that they get a quick and correct introduction. A new arrival who after two years is deemed to need continued efforts to be able to become employable should be able to have the operation extended up to five years. Mobility within the group of new arrivals is very large during the start-up period. People often move between different municipalities, which means that they do not really get started with the Swedish education or social orientation that is important during the first part of the establishment. We Christian Democrats believe that a residence obligation is needed during these first two mandatory years of the establishment programme. I therefore support the Christian Democrats' reservation in paragraph 5. It is reservation 13, which relates precisely to the establishment programme. Madam President, I would like Success in what is called economic integration is crucial in many ways. Sweden today, despite considerable financial resources and efforts, has the EU's second largest difference in employment rates between domestic and foreign born. Only Romania is worse than Sweden. According to SCB figures, the unemployment rate of foreign born was 19.5 per cent last year, compared with 5.4 per cent for natives. This is not good enough. Professor Johan Eklund has shown in calculations that more than 1.8 million Swedes of working age do not support themselves through their own work. Only half of those who immigrated from the Middle East are self-sufficient after 20 years in our country. The rest have lived and lived on subsidies. This is in every way a gigantic failure. Those who have come here to Sweden with the hope of a better life should not get stuck in unemployment, passivity and exclusion. I think we all remember the episode of the SVT programme for 30 minutes when, in prime time, we saw the then Minister of Migration Morgan Johansson experience how his own hollow rhetoric about the values of political opponents became his absolute enemy. The language requirement that mentioned Johansson had suspected the opposition because, now that he himself brought it forward, had suddenly turned into something good. Shamelessness was in the open. However, it is good that Johansson has changed his mind, because Sweden is in need of a policy that understands that language and work are important keys for us to achieve real integration. The development we have had and have seen in Sweden is a waste of human resources and ultimately also constitutes a real threat to our Swedish welfare model. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats have put forward a battery of measures to ensure better functioning economic integration, and I will give you a few examples. I have mentioned this with a flexible and, if necessary, extended establishment programme, and we are also proposing a professional SFI. We also propose prioritising and further developing what we call fast track. We also propose introducing a state daily allowance for all those who are unemployed but able to work. The aid is not supposed to be a municipal unemployment fund, but today it is. Half of those receiving subsistence support are currently unemployed but able to work, and we know that almost two out of three are born abroad. We need to fix the financial exclusion if you want to replace Welcome here to Welcome home. We Christian Democrats believe that it is important to put reforms in place quickly, so that newcomers coming to Sweden find a job and become self-sufficient. Madam President, I would like In the Christian Democratic idea of a community, pluralist society is not reduced to an accumulation of people who are only united by a common passport. More and more people have now understood the importance of common values. A society that is increasingly diverse must also have a strong common foundation that holds the many parts together. The common foundation that we see is a society that builds on the Christian ethics and Western humanism that shaped our country. We Christian Democrats believe that they should continue to do so. We have obtained democratic and humanist principles here. We have received freedom of religion and equality, mercy and tolerance. It is time we all realised that a country can never be built in a vacuum. A common ethical mother tongue is also a prerequisite for us to be able to have a functioning society that, like the Swedish, is characterized by several cultures. Finally, in recent weeks we have seen a fantastic generosity that has flowed to the Migration Agency, the Government, the Riksdag and municipalities where individuals have said: I want to help, but how can I help? This generosity has been absolutely crucial in order for us to cope with the situation of all the Ukrainian refugees who have come to Sweden. They are not many yet, but they can quickly become many more women, children and older people — and people open their own homes for shelter and food in their mouths. This is proof that civil society is there and is ready, just like 2015 – 2016, to help Sweden. Then we can achieve real integration. Because integration is when you and I reach out to the unknown and say: Hello, my name is Hans! Who are you? We can never replace this integration with anything other than people meeting and finding meeting places and reaching each other.
i-8GeE7xg5XM6P5CwPpa5ZaX	Madam President, I would like It is probably 20 years since integration policy was in focus as the main issue in an election movement. At the time it was just about language tests and language requirements to highlight the problems of exclusion, which has affected Sweden. It feels a little strange to have been here in Parliament for 12 years, and we are debating the same issues. This shows the slowness and paralysis that has unfortunately hit the government in recent years. It doesn't matter if we talk about settlement law, community introductions or establishment programs. This report contains several proposals which were tabled last autumn and which have been debated in committee recently, in parallel with the committee initiative. Several of the proposals have already passed the deadline. This is due to the international change that is taking place at an extremely rapid pace, not least in relation to the situation in Ukraine. Although the Liberals had not submitted any motion requests, we and the Center Party and others had tabled a committee initiative on the settlement law, which is one of the themes of this report, but it was rejected by a committee majority. It is, of course, a question of all municipalities taking joint and several responsibility for the reception, regardless of which countries people come from. In this case, it is about the refugees from Ukraine. Then why am I saying that the best-case date has passed? This applies not only to the proposals contained in the report, but also to the positions of the government. What was an obvious and crystal clear no one day became the day after a yes. Suddenly, we wanted to review the settlement law to meet our demands and those of several parties in this House. This once again confirms the slowness and paralysis of the Social Democratic Government. Another point I would particularly like to mention is the situation of foreign-born women in the labour market. We will come back and constantly remind the Social Democratic Government of the conditions for women in the labour market. It was particularly interesting to read an interview in Today's Industry in February where the Minister for Labour, the most responsible politician of the Social Democrats on these issues, suddenly stated that the situation of women born abroad in the labour market is her most important issue. In between, there was an ESO report that looked at various public systems. There the integration policy of Sweden and the Social Democrats was rejected. It shows that the pay gap and the employment gap are increasing. The Left Party is talking about racism. Racism is possibly part of the problem. But there are other structural problems in labour market policies and integration policies that contribute to the great exclusion. It is over 350 000 who are enrolled in Arbetsförmedlingen. About half of them are long-term unemployed. Sixty-three per cent of them are born abroad, and of them there are a great many women. Then everyone says to make the same demands. I am absolutely convinced that today, after 15– 20 years of debate in Sweden, the same demands are being made. But do they receive the same advice and support? No. Are they offered the same reception at Arbetsförmedlingen? No. Are they offered the same opportunities to take courses and labour market policy programmes or to have other actions adapted for women? No. The government returns to the committee and the Riksdag and tries to convince us that they have done their utmost and that they will do their utmost to change this. But what was established by the National Audit Office and the Inspection for Unemployment Insurance is something that has been noted and criticised three, four and five years ago. This shows that Arbetsförmedlingen and ultimately the Swedish Government do not achieve the gender equality policy objectives. It is a failure on this point, we say hello from the Liberals. If you want to get these women into the labour market, you need to improve SFI education. You have to get control of the presence and quality of SFI from Arbetsförmedlingen, and that is not the case today. We also need to look at this with start-up allowances, which are still striking blindly. If you are a couple and one partner, such as the man, gets a job, the establishment supplement is strangled immediately. This makes it even more difficult for women to enter the labour market. You get stuck. There is a lock-in effect in the benefit system. We should not have grants as a signal, but we should quickly learn Swedish and get into the labour market. With this, Madam President, I am in favour of reservation 29 in the report of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs on the establishment of newly arrived women in the labour market.
i-MULkSFn1WBbsy28HeK76ep	Madam President, I would like We have not had a single debate in this House in the last six weeks without Russia's indefensible invasion of Ukraine being at the highest level. It's no wonder. It is difficult to think of anything else when people in Europe are fleeing the bombs and tanks of the neighbouring country. Families who just lived their lives the way we do have to leave everything to save their lives. Just as people are now fleeing Ukraine, people have fled Somalia, Syria, Palestine, Iraq and Bosnia to finally seek refuge in Sweden. Prolonged conflicts, wars and persecution mean that Sweden becomes not only a temporary refuge but a new homeland for many. Integration policy is then needed – a policy for them to become part of our society, create a new life and security and support themselves and contribute to our common welfare. The debate often presents two very different images of the success of politics. One shows a tremendous failure, the other a success story. It is difficult to understand the reality of the debate, but it is always somewhere in between. Compared to many other countries, we have a high participation rate in all groups, but we also have large differences between groups. People come to a large extent in jobs, and time has been shortened for those who immigrated to Sweden. At the same time, it takes a little too long for quite a few people. Women born abroad in particular stand out in the statistics, but still women in Sweden are more often employed than in many other countries. Sweden has for many years taken a great responsibility for people on the run to be able to seek shelter here, and despite a large reception we have managed to get quite a lot of people to work. We have great challenges with segregation and the problems it brings. At the same time, a large majority of those born abroad go to work every day, support themselves and their family and contribute to our common welfare. Madam President, I would like Not having one's own livelihood creates great freedom and prevents people from shaping their lives as they wish. Unemployment, overcrowding and segregation create major problems in our society and are constantly being recreated if we do not break these patterns. Children need to see their parents go to work, have peace and quiet at home and get good support in school to succeed and be able to follow their dreams. Large divisions separate our society and create contradictions between groups. In order to have a society that holds together, we constantly need to make new considerations and formulate new policies. Our job as politicians is to see society as it is and to do what is necessary. Therefore, the government has taken a number of initiatives and implemented a lot of reforms to get more people to work and speed up establishment. The Housing Act was introduced in 2016 and will ensure that refugees are distributed evenly across the country and that all municipalities take responsibility according to their abilities. Where the labour market is good, more can be received and more successful in integration. The municipalities that have previously received many refugees may need to accept fewer. All municipalities need to take responsibility for those who have fled to Sweden, just as we have pushed in the EU for all countries to take responsibility for those who have fled to our part of the world. The Swedish National Audit recently submitted a report on whether the residence law has lived up to the intentions. It shows that the law provides for a faster and more even distribution of reception and better entry of new arrivals into the labour market. As the war in Ukraine once again brings many refugees to Sweden, most people agree that it is crucial that the distribution between municipalities becomes even in order for the reception to work as well as possible. Making the establishment programme a programme at Arbetsförmedlingen, with demands for participation and the possibility of sanctions, has been important for us Social Democrats, and it became a reality in 2018. We will provide great opportunities for all the unemployed within the programme, regardless of their background and adapted to their needs, but also make the same demands for participation as we make for all the other unemployed. At the same time as re-establishing the establishment programme, we also introduced training requirements for those who come to Sweden with only short education and who are not considered to be able to get work during the start-up period. As of 1 August this year, municipalities shall offer a coherent training course of at least 23 hours. Madam President, I would like Language and the right skills are keys to the Swedish labour market. We will offer a wide range of support and measures that can suit different individuals. People who have fled to Sweden are not empty leaves but have knowledge and experience to build on. It is therefore important that there are different measures. Fast track, subsidised employment, labour market training, vocational skills, job tracks and intensive years suit the needs of different individuals. Sometimes one effort is enough, but sometimes a chain of efforts is needed to enable someone to enter the labour market. The start-up jobs will soon be part of this range of initiatives. After EU approval, the government expects them to be in place by the summer. Social introduction and social orientation are important efforts to create an understanding among newcomers of how the new country works, what laws and rules look like and what norms and values apply. Therefore, the introduction has become mandatory, and a study is now looking at how to introduce an obligation to participate. Social orientation has been expanded and developed. We have also introduced a language requirement that requires participation in Swedish teaching for those who need it. Madam President, I would like In order to get more foreign-born women to work faster, a gender equality focus is needed in integration policies but also political reforms in many other areas that may not be under the scope of the Committee on Employment's review. In the majority of families, women take the greatest responsibility for children. Instead, men work more during childhood years. Responsibility for homes and children remains extremely uneven. We have reformed parental insurance and abolished the custody allowance. The latter particularly kept foreign-born women away from the labour market and the possibility of self-sufficiency. In 2020, 89 per cent of parenting days were taken at basic level by women. A high proportion of those who had only basic levels were born outside Sweden. In a few weeks' time, the Riksdag will debate a proposal that also reserves parental days at the basic level for each parent. We want women and men to share more responsibility for children, which can also reduce the obstacles preventing women from taking a job. The government has recently submitted a bill to the Riksdag on preschool for more. The proposal means that municipalities should offer a place at preschool to all children from the age of three who have parents who have lived in Sweden for a short time or who need it for their language development. Families who do not have children in preschool should also be sought out to inform about the children's right to preschool. We want to do this to improve children's language development and create better conditions for them to pass school later. In addition, parents, especially mothers, are better placed to enter the labour market when childcare is organised. The fact that women in Sweden could enter the labour market was dependent on a number of gender equality reforms. One of the most important was the expansion of preschool. Those who have immigrated to Sweden should also be able to make the journey that women born in Sweden have made as a group: from home and dependence to work and independence. The employment agency has received a variety of gender equality assignments linked to the establishment programme, subsidised employment and labour market training. Prejudice and prejudice should not have an impact and reduce women's ability to receive support. More women will be offered efforts that will lead more quickly to jobs. The Employment Service has also been tasked with strengthening support for long-term unemployed people, especially in areas facing socio-economic challenges. You need to be in place where you are most needed, where unemployment is high and where the negative effects of segregation are clearly visible. Madam President, I would like Integration has improved over time, and more people are coming to work faster. But we have continued to face great challenges. We need to be constantly prepared to change and improve policy. We need to interpret the statistics and meet the people behind in order to understand how we can face the problems that exist. We Social Democrats are serious about turning every stone around to break the segregation. We will not be satisfied with less than the fact that gaps are narrowing and more people are getting into work, because we know how important a livelihood is for people's self-esteem and the ability to live the life they want. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations.
i-TvkpDfBgtU1qMvYMPFqd8C	Madam President, I would like There it came, talking points from Sveavägen, that you should turn every stone that you have hidden during for eight years when it comes to the denial of Sweden's integration problems in particular. Madam President, I would like We heard a rather rosy picture painted here. No one should black out, but we must somehow relate to reality. And the reality is that Sweden has the EU's highest unemployment rate among immigrants. Only Romania has greater gaps between natives and immigrants in terms of unemployment. Our challenges are quite clear. The measures listed by the Social Democrats through Johanna Haraldsson concerned start-up jobs, education obligations, intensive care and extra services. I do not really know where to start, Madam President, but we can start with the additional services. It is a 100% subsidised employment in the public sector. Less than 6 percent of those who have received the extremely expensive extra services, which have cost SEK 8 million per job, have received a job afterwards. If an extra service is an example of a successful measure, Madam President, what is a failed measure? I'm going to go over the other parts too. In terms of education, less than 10% of those who are subject to this obligation are in training. I would like to have some comments on the failure of both the additional services and the education obligation.
i-9LYyxnFTX27djs5QbRDQAf	Madam President, I would like I want to start by right Mats Green. I talked nothing about the extra services, for them Mats Green and his comrades in the Swedish Democrats and Christian Democrats have abolished. We regret, of course, that the extra services have been abolished, where a lot of people had a chance to get into the labour market and try out jobs, get up in the morning, go to work and feel that they were useful. Of those who had or still have an extra job – some new ones will not be distributed – a much larger proportion of women, unlike all other subsidised jobs. Now they have been abolished, which makes it more difficult for some of those who have had an extra job to enter the labour market and test and see if work in health care can be something for them to move on to education later. Then there was the education obligation. The figures mentioned by Mrs Mats Green have risen, if I am not mistaken, and that is why the municipalities have now been given the task of getting a coherent education for those who have an educational obligation. It is a collaboration between the municipality, Arbetsförmedlingen and the state, and then we need to make certain demands on the municipality so that the education providers really get education to the extent that they need.
i-9cgZr8BoNUfWTdKhUBevn5	Madam President, I would like The proportion of compulsory education could not reasonably have decreased because it was only 10 per cent. It cannot really go below 10%, so we really must hope that things go in the right direction there. And no, there are not many people who have got jobs through the auxiliary services, but it is less than 6%. The government has received very justified criticism from the Swedish National Audit Office because it is to a greater extent men who are allowed to take effective action that leads to jobs while women of the Social Democratic Government are mainly referred to expensive and inefficient interventions as extra services, which do not lead to jobs to any extent whatsoever – less than 6 percent. Above all, they are being removed from labour market statistics – this is the problem that we are dealing with and discussing. The start-up jobs have been raised here. It is a form of subsidised employment that was developed by the social partners at the turn of the year between 2017 and 2018. In 2018, the Social Democrats stood here and said that next year will be the start-up jobs. In 2019 the Social Democrats stood here and said that next year will the start-up jobs. In 2020, the Social Democrats stood here and said that next year will be the start-up jobs. In 2021 the Social Democrats stood here and said that next year will the start-up jobs. And in 2022, the Social Democrats stand here and say that soon the start-up jobs will come. That is all the criticism, Madam President. We have a measure which we believe will be effective and which has great support in the Swedish Parliament, and there is not a single reason why it has not been introduced before more than the slowness and ideological blinding of the Social Democrats. There are no excuses, so stop blaming the failures in establishing jobs in Europe! I would like some comments on this too.
i-WXauV8ECza6iVHzb8aJ8wi	Madam President, I would like I cannot say more than that the start-up jobs have now received prior approval from the European Union, and so perhaps we can say with a little more certainty that they will be in place in 2022.
i-3opPv2QTDMQcecJXLL9ZCX	Madam President, I would like It is very interesting to be here for the first time debating integration. I think that in my speech I think that economic integration is extremely important, so I really appreciate the fact that Johanna Haraldsson, the Member of Parliament, has on several occasions mentioned the importance of getting to a situation where people become self-sufficient. I believe that self-sufficiency is important, and I would therefore like us to have a measure in Sweden that clarifies what it looks like with the degree of self-sufficiency. I would like to test the Member of Parliament to see if there is possibly a common interest in this. The reason why I think it is important that we get such a measure is partly that in November 2019 in this House I heard the then Prime Minister Stefan Löfven announce that the government had halved the time it takes for a new arrival to come to work from nine years 2014 to four and a half years 2019. To an uninvited person who listens to this, it sounds like you've halved the time until a person gets to work, but that's not really true. After all, the measure of employment includes all sorts of things, even if a person has had a wage job for one hour during a reference week. Then he or she is in employment, but everyone understands that in an hour you can never be self-sufficient. My question to Johanna Haraldsson, based on the fact that the Member of Parliament highlighted the importance of making people self-sufficient, therefore becomes if the Social Democrats are open to introducing a self-sufficiency target alongside the employment measure, which may not provide the information we want all the time. Would it be possible to introduce this as a complement?
i-TT82hTn4abZ646ymBzBQNX	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Hans Eklind! Self-sufficiency and how to measure it differ from how to make other measurements of unemployment and employment, for example. You usually set a certain income as a level for when a person is self-sufficient or not. We know that foreign-born women who start working often do so at lower wages, lower conditions and part-time. They can then be counted as non-self-sufficient in such statistics, just as long-term sick, temporary unemployed and parental leave. What matters to me is what we do and what policies we present for people to get to work, not what measures we use. Even if you use self-sufficiency measures where a variety of other individuals who also work or who may be ill are included, you get similar results. We can see that unemployment is high. We can see that there are large differences in employment and participation rates between different groups. I do not really see the point of introducing another measure, but the most important thing is that we take action where we see that they are needed. One example is when we Social Democrats abolished the custody allowance when it appeared that it excluded many foreign-born women from the labour market.
i-YKTzk5woJyTUdcFtQ2ec5R	Madam President, I would like Looks like I'm not getting any bigger luck. Johanna Haraldsson says that it doesn't matter what measure we use because we get similar results. That is the very point of why I want a new measure alongside the measure of employment. When Stefan Löfven in this House says that it has halved the time to four and a half years, just a few weeks later, a report from the Entrepreneurship Forum will be published at a level of SEK 15 50 0. The people who earn at least this amount are self-sufficient. It's a very low salary. It is noted that after four years 50 percent have employment, but it takes 13 to 14 years to achieve 50 percent self-sufficiency. There is an incredible difference between four years and 13-14 years. Furthermore, it takes 20 years for a person from the Middle East to become self-sufficient, that is, to earn 15,500 kroner or more. After 20 years, half of those coming from the Middle East are dependent on subsidies. I believe that a self-sufficiency measure would complement employment statistics. It hides the problem that the self-sufficiency measure actually reveals and puts its finger on. There are too few of those who have come to Sweden who can live on their wages. Then it is not good enough to hide this in a measure of employment.
i-AjtaKM7G2ZSYWfHnb8PxBs	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Eklind for the question. I agree with Hans Eklind that it is problematic that too many people have low wages, precarious employment and work part-time. But what I rarely hear are proposals for action by the Christian Democrats that get to grips with the problems. Rather, it proposes something that does not lead to it. For example, you want to reintroduce a custody allowance. The question is how it will lead to more people reaching a level where they are self-sufficient more quickly.
i-A62NWWqfCaQUTTJVeqVD4	Madam President, I would like I am really starving, so I would hate to prolong the debate. But I have to ask Johanna Haraldsson a question. I wonder why the party that Johanna Haraldsson represents makes a difference between refugees and refugees. That is a genuine and honest question. Why should refugees from Ukraine be considered as second-class refugees? They have a formal residence permit. Why should they not be included in start-up and language interventions? Why should they live on the Finnish Immigration Service's compensation and not on the establishment allowance? That is a genuine and honest question. I know that Johanna Haraldsson is not in any of the government's departments, but that it is the Government and ultimately the Prime Minister who are responsible for the matter. However, we are in this Chamber today, and Johanna Haraldsson represents the government party. I'd like an answer.
i-JLG5xBS2vjXvZWn5fsdkZn	Madam President, I would like I thank Alireza Akhondi for the questions. I am not making a difference between refugees and refugees in the sense that, for example, the Swedish Democrats are doing. However, this reception of refugees is based on another basis: the mass refugee directive. It is also based on self-sufficiency. Of course you can get support to get to work, and we know that there is a civil society that can make a great deal of effort, and it gets more support to do so. I would not say that we are making more difference to these refugees and other refugees than that there are different grounds for residence permits in Sweden.
i-6SNaqzYTEmDqLWQPFnE8tQ	Madam President, I would like Maybe I should have asked what lunch is served in the café. Chances would have been higher to get an answer. The fact that refugees are covered by the EU's mass refugee directive is really just a procedure in the asylum process, which ultimately involves the Migration Agency buying a stamp and some ink and then stamping. Then the asylum process itself goes a little faster. But this is based on thinking all the way out. What's next? A lot of people who run away will stay here no matter what they say. As soon as the children start going to school, which we want, and as soon as they start kicking the ball, which we want, many of the refugees will stay in Sweden, which I am pleased. For me and the Center Party, it is very important that people learn the Swedish language quickly, which we know is a crucial factor if they are to succeed in the labour market. We also want them to be able to take part in adequate start-up efforts so that they can get more quickly into the Swedish labour market. I appeal one more time, please! Can Johanna Haraldsson take the issue with her to be resolved internally by the Social Democrats. I tried with the Secretary of State a few weeks ago, and now I hope Johanna Haraldsson.
i-LJbMSQCGowoBM8qv4XRDvq	Madam President, I would like I thank Alireza Akhondi. There is now a terrible situation for many people, but we hope that this will last for a short time and be over quickly. However, if there is a long-term conflict, that people will stay longer than the year in which the mass refugee directive allows us to stay in Sweden, we must of course reassess and introduce measures to make it easier for people to enter society. It is a question of taking more measures than is possible today. It is clear that people will want to stay, but we must also, as in all other contexts when people flee to Sweden, assess their asylum status. We must certainly reassess whether the conflict will take longer than the year prescribed by the mass refugee directive. I shall take the honourable Member's plea with me.
i-SS82ipTfU7P9kQtXx3x1EE	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the AU10 motion report on the working environment and working time. I shall begin by requesting approval of the Moderates' reservation number 1. A good working environment is essential for more people to have the opportunity to work longer and without risks of ill health. In recent years, occupational health and safety issues have gained an increasing focus in working life and politics, which is highly relevant. The enormous challenges that now exist in the area of health and safety at work raise both concern and great frustration. The fact that 41 people died in our workplaces in 2021 is, of course, unacceptable. The government's so-called zero vision of fatal accidents is therefore considered a major failure. Employers have a great responsibility to ensure an adequate and good working environment for their employees. However, if this does not work, of course a great deal of responsibility also falls to the authorities and not least to the government which has the ultimate responsibility. Adequate resources and clarity for authorities, follow-up of actions, analyses and support and training for those concerned are of course important in this context. Analysis of why the situation has not improved is required. And here there is a great potential for improvement for the government. The results have not improved over these eight years as the government has pursued its health and safety policy, and we therefore do not believe that the efforts have been sufficient. Year after year we have seen the large number of fatal accidents. Companies want to do the right thing and feel that they need support and advice in their work environment. However, they state that this particular part is missing and, of course, it needs to be addressed. This also applies to health and safety problems in the public sector, where high health rates among staff in women-dominated activities such as health care, school and care show major shortcomings in the working environment and in preventive work environment work. Time pressure and lack of routines are factors that can lead to an unacceptable working environment. A particularly worrying trend is that reports of occupational diseases among women due to organisational and social problems have increased nine years in a row. These problems cause half of all reported occupational diseases among women. The shortcomings that the Swedish Work Environment Authority has discovered include preventive work environment management, for example that the employer has not investigated and addressed risks at work. The physical risks, such as heavy lifting, stress and the like, are an important part that has been recognised in the past. But it is also about how employers have handled the staff's heavy workload. The Corona crisis has, of course, made the situation even worse for public sector staff. Some occupational groups have even risked their lives because of the lack of adequate protective equipment during their work. It's terrible. It is important to continue improving the working environment, preventing ill health and accidents and preventing people from being excluded from working life, not least in order to enable a longer working life. Already before the pandemic, the Swedish Radio Ecot reported that 90 per cent of the inspected workplaces in elderly care received comments on the working environment – serious remarks. This was information that came from the Swedish Work Environment Authority. Madam President, I would like We Moderates believe that consideration should be given to a specific supervision of the psychosocial working environment in occupational groups with high absenteeism due to a disease. It is often about contact professions, often women-dominated professions in publicly funded activities, such as nurses, health care staff or teachers. According to us, the Government should commission the Swedish Work Environment Authority to further strengthen supervision of the psychosocial work environment and tighten sanctions against employers in certain occupational groups. Many of the professions that are struggling with a worse working environment have problems in their operations in the form of a lack of staff or a lack of leadership. A well-functioning organisation and good leadership are factors that are crucial to a good working environment. As far as public activities are concerned, policy has a major responsibility to create the conditions for this. The public sector also has a responsibility to set an example. It will be necessary to attract staff in a situation of skills supply problems. Madam President, I would like The most important thing to ensure a good working environment is a well-functioning preventive work environment work at the workplace. Both the Swedish Work Environment Authority and the parties also play an important role here. A survey carried out by the Swedish Work Environment Authority showed, among other things, that it was at the smallest companies that the greatest risks to the working environment were present. Working to reach these companies is therefore extremely important. Efforts to make it easier for employers can range from dissemination of knowledge to advice and better tools. Many employers want to do the right thing but do not know how. Another important part of facilitating business, especially smaller companies, is to simplify the regulatory framework, which does not mean that the level of ambition of work environment work needs to be reduced. It must simply be easy to do the right thing. We from the Moderates believe that the Swedish Work Environment Authority has a central role in achieving a well-functioning working environment in the Swedish labour market. We therefore want to see a review of the Agency's activities in order to further streamline its activities. To succeed in a good working environment at Sweden's workplaces requires sufficient resources, better collaboration between the parties involved, modernisation and, not least, efficiency. Greater responsibility for shortcomings in the psychosocial working environment must be placed on employers who have such shortcomings in their working environment. Moderates see a clear need to create a better incentive structure for employers in the prevention of psychosocial work environment, early intervention and better rehabilitation. It is also important that gender equality issues are brought into the picture in a clearer way. When it comes to occupational health care, the Moderates want to strengthen preventive work against mental illness. In the light of what I have said, we believe that the government should take measures to test the possibilities of strengthening health promotion and prevention work on treatments of mental illness within the framework of occupational health care. Unfortunately, we can learn from the information that there are large differences in who has access to occupational health care. In low-wage jobs, only 30 per cent have access to occupational health care. There are the greatest needs for action. And there has to be a change, and it's going to happen now. It is also an important equality issue, as I said earlier. The Moderates also believe that the limitation periods for occupational health and safety offences are too short. The limitation period for normal occupational health and safety offences is now two years. In the case of serious occupational health and safety offences such as fatal accidents, it is extended to five years. However, experience shows that this is often not enough for prosecutors, police and courts to carry out the appropriate investigations that are needed. The Moderates therefore want to double the limitation period both in terms of normal occupational health and safety offences and in terms of serious occupational health and safety offences. Madam President, I would like The government has been responsible for health and safety policy for eight years, and even before the pandemic we could see unacceptably high figures for fatal accidents and occupational diseases. Unfortunately, during the government's eight years, we can see far too few improvements in the area of health and safety at work. This harms the individual and not least society in general unacceptably much. Stronger efforts and adequate efforts that really have an impact are now required by the government.
i-7h25wbtQJagz2NpmxfFesh	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation number 8. A good work environment work is on several legs: research and implementation of research results in both strategic and local work environment work and strong action against work environment crimes. However, the single most important component is the daily work environment work where employees and employers work together for a good work environment and where the parties work continuously and together to both prevent and address occupational health and safety problems at the workplace. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Work Environment Authority's statistics show that out of 5 million employed people in Sweden, one third feel that they have trouble because of their work. Examples of such problems are work-related stress, bullying and offensive discrimination. Threats and violence, such as violence against blue light personnel and health professionals, are also present at Swedish workplaces. There is no reason to believe that any of this has changed for the better during the pandemic. Some parts have been made worse. We are thus in a situation where previous health and safety problems are built on with new health and safety problems. It is therefore important that political conditions are created for an adequate work environment that includes all employers and all employees. No one should be put outside. Madam President, I would like Investigations of occupational health and safety offences involve several authorities. It's the Swedish Work Environment Authority, the Swedish Police Authority and the Swedish Prosecution Authority. The investigation period is often long, and the average investigation period for the crime causing death in the workplace is considerably longer than the investigation period for the cause of death of another person who is not related to a workplace. The state of the investigation is complicated by the nature of the matter. Entrepreneurial work often takes place in several stages, and technically, it can be complex causality and even complex organisational conditions in the workplace. There are often several actors involved, and it is in the joints between the actors that the investigation situation is made more difficult. Based on the overall picture of the problems in these investigations, the limitation period needs to be extended. As we heard earlier, the limitation period for the normal degree of occupational health and safety crime is two years. In serious crimes, it is five years old. These limitation periods are too short and should be extended to double. Madam President, I would like The remarkable thing here is that we could have had a majority in favour of the proposal. However, the Social Democrats, who went to elections on extended limitation periods both 2014 and 2018, choose to vote no on the grounds that an investigation regarding limitation periods is ongoing – an investigation that in its report does not mention occupational health and safety crimes once. There is no mention of the Work Environment Act with a syllable. It has not even been tried to take it into account in the investigation. It is really bad for a government that considers itself representing Swedish workers. But once again, when the Social Democrats fail the workers only because they refuse to join the Swedish Democrats, we will push the issue forward, not for our sakes, but for those who are entitled to redress and who we believe are far more important than political rejection. Madam President, I would like Inspection activities are the Swedish Work Environment Authority's heaviest mission. These activities should be expanded in line with the growth of the supervisory area. The inspection activities focus on unfair competition, organisational and social work environment and issues related to workload, stress, offensive discrimination, threats and violence, posting as well as tips and notifications. This is of the utmost importance, not least in relation to the zero vision of fatal accidents at work. Madam President, I would like The ILO, the International Labour Organisation, recommends having one inspector per 10,000 employees in one country. In Sweden this would mean just over 500 inspectors. Unfortunately, the Swedish Work Environment Authority has today over 300, and the agency has announced that this number will decrease due to, among other things, retirements. The Authority thus needs to be strengthened in order to fulfil its mission, but also to be able to deal with the negative effects in manning that occurred when it chose to relocate the Authority. I am pleased to say that we are ensuring this within the framework of the budgets of the Swedish Democrats, Moderates and Christian Democrats with increased investment in the Swedish Work Environment Authority. That's far more than the government does. Madam President, I would like In order to ensure the implementation of the local work environment, the number of local safety representatives needs to be increased, as thousands are currently missing. In today's model, Social Democraticly-led trade unions have the preferential right to appoint local safety representatives. Unfortunately, this means that a large number of employees are excluded from taking on the role of safety representative when it is considered that political opinion is more important than competence, commitment and trust from co-workers. This is a distressing development, Madam President. During the 2016 LO Congress, it was decided that the trade union organisation and trade union representatives should have trade union-political cooperation with the Social Democrats. In practice, this means that those who are politically active in parties other than the Social Democrats are excluded from receiving trade union trust positions, to which safety representatives count, i.e. even if they have knowledge, commitment and the trust of their employees. There are several examples of union-active people having to choose between their political assignments and their commitment to their co-workers and the working environment. Madam President, I would like We Swedish democrats are strongly opposed to this politicisation of work environment work. Work environment work is crucial for the safety and health of employees, and this work must be carried out as effectively as possible. Anyone who is suitable and has an interest in and knowledge of work environment management should be able to become a safety representative. The power to appoint representatives should lie with the employees of the workplace and then preferably in consultation with an unpolitical union that works for all employees. No one has any problem with that, and no one has said otherwise, although there are indications from the government that the Swedish Democrats are an anti-trade unionist party. Nothing else is wrong. What we are opposed to is the Stasi-like political governance of work environment work carried out by the Social Democratic Party. It does not belong in a modern labour market. A policy is being pursued which places more and more workers outside the protection they are entitled to. The mere fact that regional safety representatives are not being given access to all of Sweden's workplaces, even though they are largely financed by the state, is a frightening development in my world, as it is usually the non-contracted ones who need the most protection. In the best of worlds there are collective agreements or similar conditions in all workplaces. But that is not the case today, and we must take this into account. The basic idea must be that no employee should be left out. It is only to regret the cynical attitude of the government on this issue. Madam President, I would like Work environment must be non-political. That is what most people think – except for the Social Democrats, who always prioritise political power over the workplace before a health and safety policy for everyone, cost what it wants. All you have to do is regret it.
i-HYmm2VttMQHCWiV3EDSKYC	Madam President, I would like Sometimes you're a little surprised. I was counting on the Swedish Democratic Member to blame Fatima and Muhammed for their shortcomings in this policy area too. And I, who had prepared a long speech on my Tinderliv and the lack of likes, was able to derive it into the Swedish-democratic policy in the same spirit. Just before I went up I was asked by my moderate colleague Lars Beckman to say something about the working environment being good. I don't want to disappoint Lars Beckman, so I take the opportunity to say that even for center parties, the working environment is important. I was going to keep this post relatively short. I would like to begin by calling for my and the Center Party's reservation 3 in this report to be approved. We are, of course, behind all our claims, but for the gain of time it will be so. Madam President, I would like Work environment issues are complex but important. The fact that staff are the absolute most important asset of a company or organisation cannot be said often enough. In the wake of the pandemic, these issues have both been raised and made visible in the public debate, which I am pleased about. From workload to flexibility in working methods and the possibilities and challenges of telework have been raised. A while ago, I also arranged a parliamentary seminar with TCO on the important privacy issues that are part of the work environment. I hope, of course, that these issues too will have their share of the public debate. Madam President, I would like If you look in the rearview mirror when the modern work environment rules grew up in the 70's you can see that a lot has happened in society at large, in business and in working life. Many of these changes also affect the work environment with new technologies, new ways of working and completely new industries. This means that we are facing completely new challenges in the area of health and safety at work. But some problems from the past remain. I am thinking mainly of the number of fatalities. Last year 44 people died at work; there are 44 too many. This year nine people have so far lost their lives. Not only is every death a failure for the individual employer and a tragedy for the family that receives the death penalty, but it is also a failure for all of us. No one – I repeat: no one – is going to die at their job. Madam President, I would like Work environment issues do not exist without jobs and employers. It is therefore natural that the discussion on how to develop health and safety at work starts with employers. The research also shows that good work environment work is usually a prerequisite for being involved and competing for customers and assignments. Against this background, it is not at all surprising that 95 percent of all member companies in the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and Industry see health and safety issues as high priority, regardless of the industry or size of the company. At the same time, there is disappointment among many companies in terms of the understanding of business life by politicians and public authorities. This becomes particularly clear when it comes to the Swedish Work Environment Authority and its lack of focus on supporting and informing companies about regulations in the field of health and safety at work. There is clearly a huge potential for development here. More than four out of ten companies find it quite or very difficult to understand the regulatory framework in the field of health and safety at work. Madam President, I would like It might be a good start for us to make sure that those responsible for health and safety at work also understand what they need to do and do not get caught up in producing a lot of desk documents that end up in the drawer.
i-B2iahHqP3LpGgdFArXmWSE	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that you love the Melodi festival if you come from Bromölla and are a Swedish democrat. That's why Alireza Akhondi has to figure it out. It is interesting to discuss health and safety problems and to have a debate on health and safety at work with the Center Party these days. We have been able to read about how things stand within the Center Party and how the Center Party's views on health and safety policy, trade unions and other things have been over the years. There has been a party leader who has been a leader in the campaign Fuck union. I am not going to translate it in this House, because it is not appropriate– you are going to have to translate it yourself and see what it is about. The Center Party is not a party that stands out on this particular issue. If you look at the proposals of the Center Party, you can see that it is rather thin in this area. Even when the labour market moves in a direction that requires a great deal of commitment to the labour market, the Center Party chooses to significantly reduce the allocation to the Swedish Work Environment Authority in its budget – it is about 25 million this year, 50 million 2023 and 75 million 2024. This is being done at a time when labour crime is increasing and when we have labour immigration where people are exploited. The Swedish Work Environment Authority needs all the resources, but the Center Party still wants to reduce the resources of the Swedish Work Environment Authority. The reason for this is the desire to finance and prioritise reforms in their budget. I would like to hear what reforms the Center Party considers more important than good work environment management.
i-UuVw5WnqmiPUeDo6emWQ1N	Madam President, I would like I thank Magnus Persson for the question. But before the Member of Parliament starts pointing the finger at others, I actually think that the Swedish Democrats should start sweeping their own door. Complaints about sexual harassment against party colleagues are if not other work environment problems, Magnus Persson. Work environment issues are also important for us in the Center Party. We have solid work within our party and for the working environment for other employees in the Swedish labour market. Together with the Swedish Democrats and other alliance parties, we have taken committee initiatives on health and safety at work; for example, it has been a review of the activities of regional safety representatives and an impact assessment. Those who like to read can see in the report that we have come up with proposals on how to enable and develop teleworking. We have also highlighted questions about systematic work environment management and so on. Maybe it's a waste of everyone's time, Magnus Persson, that I'm up for all of the Center Party's fantastic proposals.
i-TYCMbSrZjtudcuoG4HGFJQ	Madam President, I would like I will not comment on the first thing that Alireza Akhondi mentioned here. It's nothing I know anything about. I just read and take note of what the newspapers say, which is apparently true because Alireza Akhondi reacts in this way. But that is not what this debate should be about. This debate is about the AU10 and the working environment. I have still not received an answer as to why you choose to cut the grant to the Swedish Work Environment Authority and how to justify this. For example, the report states that reform is a priority, but there must be consequences for the Swedish Work Environment Authority. In their own budget, the Swedish Work Environment Authority assigns a new task to coordinate more with the police. New assignments cost money, but yet they want to cut heavily in the Swedish Work Environment Authority's budget. When we have a labour market that looks like it does and has major problems, I think that it is the wrong way to cut the funding to the authority leading in dealing with these problems. I would like to hear how Alireza Akhondi views this. He is happy to justify why these major cuts are made at the Swedish Work Environment Authority, because he did not answer that in his first reply.
i-9hD9onU1CAKAvksnRJPYBv	Madam President, I would like There's no turning the other cheek here. If Magnus Persson wants a factual debate on an important policy area, he should not start by pointing out the Center Party and any writing – false or true – in this type of format. That was the reason for my answer about what it actually looks like in the Swedish Democrats themselves. Again, occupational health and safety issues are extremely important issues for society. They affect us all, no matter where we work. The fact that the Centre Party does not have as much money in its budget is not about cuts but about priorities in terms of how the money in Category 14 is to be distributed. In this budget, we have made a different priority to the priority of the budget that was passed; that is the case. There are many other areas in which you in the Swedish Democrats are severely cutting – if you are going to use the same rhetoric – and where you have made other priorities. This does not always mean that one is right and the other wrong, but it is about what priorities you do and what societal problems you want to address first.
i-hcVhmGEKn6Wney2ii72rs	Madam President, I would like I read a column in Dagens Arena with the title.Where did the requirement for shorter working hours go? .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The author claimed that the issue is completely dead at the level of the kingdom and that even the Left Party does not drive it anymore. I see that there are some in this House who giggle a little, because you who follow the debates in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs know that we in the Left Party are insistently exercising on this every year. But apart from the fact that the writer was wrong about the Left Party not pushing the question, there were a lot of other interesting things in the column, such as that in Region Värmland earlier this year three pilot projects were started with 30 hours of work week. Three care units are covered, including Torsby and Arvika hospitals. The projects must last for six months. The old salary remains. The Left Party, together with Värmland cooperation, has agreed on the reduction of working time, among other things the Moderates, the Centers, the K ristdememocrats, the Liberals and the Green Party. The politicians there want to show that they dare to think new. By the way, the chairman of the Regional Council is moderate, not left-wing party. In many places the requirement has also become a reality, as at Karolinska in Huddinge, the orthopedic clinic in Mölndal, the social services office in Norrtälje, Svartedalen's retirement home in Gothenburg and the recruitment company Telin – as well as in Iceland. Permanent reduction of working time while maintaining wages has been negotiated for 86% of the working Icelandic population. Belgium has recently introduced four days' work week. Spain and Scotland are on their way and also want to introduce a shorter working week. It seems to be in time. Madam President, I would like There has always been an interaction between the organisation, design and requirements of working life in collective agreements, the general debate in society and the laws governing working hours. Basically, this is about how we organize the economy and what values will guide us into the future. Most of us agree that we work to live well. We do not live to work at all costs. Yet this is rarely or never reflected in the public debate. A social debate on working time is important, and it is important that it has a good and diverse factual basis. Madam President, I would like The Left Party does not say: For six hours working day now! We say: The government should set up an investigation with the task of highlighting the possibilities of a general reduction in working hours. With that, Madam President, I am in favour of reservation number 29.
i-FLopBh7DNzUFmEUTFP9mhk	Madam President, I would like There are still a great many people who die in their workplace, on average three or four people per month in recent years. It's not reasonable in any way. Workplaces must be safe so that accidents, especially fatal accidents, are avoided. Lack of leadership, individuals who do not follow established rules, poor safety culture, lack of introduction at new positions, stress and more are areas that need to be defined. Unfortunately, there is a lack of an overall picture of the causes of fatal accidents at work. As long as we do not know what is the cause, it is also difficult to put in place the right measures to prevent future fatal accidents. The majority of the committee is satisfied with what the government is doing. It's not me. It is not enough simply to add more money. The most important thing is to define the causes and to increase the motivation of both employers and employees to comply fully with the current safety regulations. Good safety is crucial for both companies and employees. The government must find new ways to achieve the zero vision of fatal accidents at work. This is perhaps one of the most important things we have to do in the area of health and safety at work. Madam President, I would like The task of the Swedish Work Environment Authority is to check that employers comply with laws and regulations. The most common way is to carry out inspections. But everyone understands that inspection cannot be carried out on all companies every year. It is therefore perhaps time to introduce a system of health and safety declarations. In the same way, Madam President, as we all have to report our income to the state every year through a declaration, employers should be able to do the same through an annual declaration on health and safety at work. Now, of course, a friend of order may object that this would place too much administrative burden on top of all the other administrative burdens that entrepreneurs have. Of course, it can be if you put it the wrong way. Our Christian Democratic proposal involves a digital declaration with yes-or-no issues, which are completed jointly by employers and workers' representatives. This means minimal administration for companies and would give the Swedish Work Environment Authority a much better picture of what work environment work in Sweden actually looks like. In addition, this declaration could be drafted by industry. One would then not really ask the same questions to all sectors, but only those which are relevant in each sector. This would give the same treatment to all companies in the same sector. Unfortunately, there is also no majority in this committee that supports our proposal, which involves a pilot project on health and safety declarations. I think it's going to take a new government to get to grips with this. Madam President, I would like We know that, unfortunately, women are more affected by work-related problems and thus sick leave. The reasons can, of course, be many, including how the work is organized, what leadership looks like and what conditions have been given to carry out the work. For women, occupational diseases are to a greater extent than for men caused by social and organisational factors. Usually the employer is not aware of these differences. Then there is a great task to make everyone aware of what one is unaware of today. Women's work environment needs to be highlighted and made visible in a much clearer way. The Swedish Work Environment Authority should be given a specific task to develop tools to identify, based on the state of knowledge, how women and men are exposed to risk factors that can lead to sick leave and, above all, how these risk factors can be prevented and not have to lead to sick leave.
i-N5HNEC89RdPa3TTcJCQXyF	Madam President, I would like About 40 hours a week of our waking time we spend at our workplace. What happens at work affects our health and well-being. For many, the work is not only about getting paid into the account on the 25th, it is also about being in a context, using your knowledge and skills and feeling satisfied with what you have achieved at the end of the working day. But for some, the feeling when you leave work at the end of the day is that you are far from satisfied. Some do so with a feeling of being exhausted, exposed or even insecure. A survey from the Swedish Work Environment Authority from 2020 showed that among young women between the ages of 16 and 29, nearly one in four had been subjected to sexual harassment from managers, peers or other people at work. The Social Insurance Agency's report from the same year shows that women are at 41 percent higher risk than men of being sickly prescribed for stress-related mental illness. And reports of physical violence in primary and secondary schools increased by 129 per cent between 2012 and 2017, and they have remained at a high level even after that, according to statistics from the Swedish Work Environment Authority. Madam President, I would like In other words, there are major shortcomings in the work environment, not least in relation to women's working environment. Several things need to be addressed. Firstly, the work environment strategy that has now been adopted needs to be complemented by an investigation that will propose how stress related to mental illness, bullying and sexual harassment can be included in the work environment regulations to a much greater extent than today. As is so often the case, there is a lack of a gender perspective in the field of health and safety at work. The study should therefore adopt one in order to provide an in-depth understanding of the difference in stress-related sick leave between women and men and how to work preventively so that young women can stay at their workplace without being subjected to sexual harassment. Secondly, we need to ensure that all workplaces are safe, including the school. Threats and violence have increased against teachers. In August 2021, a report, prepared by the City of Gothenburg, was released, mapping the problems of quiet culture among municipal employees. The main reason for the unwillingness to report events is, according to the report, fear of reprisals from criminal structures. We Liberals believe that a number of efforts must be made to increase the willingness and conditions for officials to report crimes. For example, the processing of personal data should be reviewed so that employees in the performance of their duties are given increased protection. The confidentiality of personal data in the case of sexual offences should be extended to more cases, for example where there is a clear threat picture from criminal networks with high violence capital. There is also a need to establish a national support function for social services administrators in investigation, decision-making and enforcement and to increase the possibilities for municipalities to transfer cases to another municipality for decision-making if there is a clear threat picture. Thirdly, it needs to be made easier for those who feel that their workplace is insecure to report abuses. The Liberals therefore believe that the Swedish Work Environment Authority should be tasked with investigating how it can be easier to report. It must be possible to do this anonymously, especially in situations where it is the employer who has harassed the person who reports. Finally, I would like to say a few words about homework. The Pandemin forced us to think again and think again. For many, the kitchen table became the workplace for a long time. And many want to continue to have the opportunity to work partly from home now that the restrictions have been released and we can return to normal again. Homework can make it easier to reconcile everyday life. Above all, surveys show reduced stress among women working from home. But it is worth noting that studies also show that men increase stress when working from home, which suggests that there may be a risk that domestic work consolidates the unequal division of unpaid work in the home. We need to get to the bottom of this and look further at it so that we do not create a new women's trap. Furthermore, experience from the pandemic shows that current health and safety legislation is ill-suited to the new type of issues raised by domestic work. There is a need for clarity as to where the limit is for voluntary and expected homework and how working hours should be handled. Therefore, health and safety legislation should be reviewed to ensure a clear division of responsibilities between employers and workers when the workplace is at home. We are in favour of all our reservations, but for the winning time, I only ask for reservation 25.
i-QAQBAeD8fBdjFYf7HKNCFL	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the proposal in the AU10 report to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. The last time we dealt with a report on health and safety at work in this House was in 2019. Since then, much has happened in the Swedish working environment and in the Swedish labour market. We have had a coronapandemia that made completely different demands on and gave other conditions for work environment work. It has also shown that much of what we have thought to be given in terms of work environment work has had to be reconsidered during this time. This applies not least to health care workers. They have had a very difficult situation in the workplace. I am proud but not satisfied with the work that has been done so far in the work environment since 2019. We still have a lot of work to do. At the same time, it is gratifying that we have a fairly good consensus between the political parties on the work environment. Since 2016, we have a strategy for health and safety at work, and the Government presents its focus every five years. A new strategy for 2021 – 2025 has been presented. It has four clear milestones: a sustainable working life, a healthy working life, a safe working life and a labour market without crime and cheating. Under each sub-objective there are also different strategies and priorities for achieving the different points. Part of the work environment strategy was to set up a study in June 2021 on increased opportunities to maintain a good working environment. The investigation is led by Lenita Granlund, who will investigate the conditions for increasing the responsibility for advice in the Work Environment Act to more situations and whether fines should be imposed for infringements within the organizational and social work environment. This means that more situations can be included as conscious crimes of the Work Environment Act, and they will be prosecuted in a completely different way to today. The study will also look at how systematic work environment management uses occupational health care to a greater extent than is currently the case. Previous debaters have raised the issue of occupational health care, and I can agree that this needs to be reviewed. We need to find a function that is more appropriate today and, above all, that more people are covered by occupational health care. In this part, the investigator will come back with suggestions. Another part of the investigation concerns the health and safety rules. They will provide the same protection for women as for men. In particular, the pandemic has shown that there is more to be done in regulations and other parts. We remember the confusion about what was going on with protective equipment and other things at the beginning of the pandemic. The investigation must be completed by 17 June 2022 at the latest when it will be submitted to the Government. I see this as very interesting, and it will be exciting to debate in the election campaign what will come out of this section. Another thing that has happened since 2019 is that much more is now being used by the Swedish Agency for Safety and Health at Work to produce facts. The Moderates' debater failed to mention that they wanted to close Mynak, which has been reported in motions and other things. I have a completely different opinion on that. It is extremely important to spend even more money on occupational health and safety research. The Agency for Safety and Health at Work works very much together with others – universities, universities and others – to be able to produce different knowledge summaries on different areas related to our work environment. You have assignments where you look at the psychosocial work environment. You look at work-related stress, mental and physical health and health factors. A mandate has also been given to the Gender Equality Agency to map research and links between gender equality in working life and mental illness. Precisely the issues raised by previous debaters in this section are also reported. It is now a matter of implementing links to it. The Swedish Work Environment Authority is also a very important authority. It is gratifying that in the budget adopted by the Riksdag after a certain turbulence there is an addition to the Swedish Work Environment Authority. This will increase the enforcement of the work with a further number of inspectors in that part. It is estimated that there will be about 40 more inspectors in 2022 and that it will increase in 2023 and beyond. Nor has it escaped anyone in this Chamber, and I hope that it also applies to those who watch the news, that one of our major focus areas in the future is on working life crime. There, eight agencies have been commissioned to work systematically in collaboration to combat working life crime. The Swedish Work Environment Authority has the main responsibility for this work. Together with the Swedish Public Prosecutor's Office, the police, the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Labour Service, the Swedish Financial Crime Agency, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, the Swedish Equality Agency and the Swedish Migration Agency, you should be able to make coordinated visits and have coordinated opportunities. The Socialist Group in the committee visited Malmö a few months ago. It was involved in two actions that were carried out out where they struck. This was also the case with the municipal authorities in the form of those responsible for building permits, the environment and health and the role of the fire authority. This meant that all the authorities were included in the part involving a workplace. It also gave a good outcome. They worked very systematically and purposefully. We Social Democrats have been very clear about the eradication of organised crime in working life. The focus we now have on working life crime is an important part of this. We also have an appointed delegation working against labour crime where the industries are represented and the parties are involved. It also works purposefully and looks at: What else needs to be done? These may, for example, be confidentiality issues and other parts that need to be dealt with in that part in order to get to grips with the problem as well as possible. Much has happened over these years in relation to health and safety at work, as I mentioned. But we also have a number of parts left. I have mentioned Mynak, the Agency for Safety and Health at Work. It's an authority that I'm proud of and works with research. Those of you who have been involved in politics for a long time remember that the bourgeois alliance government shut down the Work Life Institute. It was a very unfortunate decision, which meant that work environment research stopped for a number of years. There have also been additions to the Swedish Work Environment Authority. It is gratifying that there are other parties that now see the conditions for having an authority that has the opportunity to do assignments Lex Laval has been torn up. New rules on posting have been in force since 30 July 2020. This means that it is now possible for Swedish trade unions to demand Swedish collective agreements. The corporate fine has been increased in terms of penalties for occupational health and safety offences – from 10 million to 500 million. This means that it is possible to impose more sanctions in that area. Entrepreneurial responsibility is in place for posted workers in the construction sector. This means that if a worker is not paid for the work he or she has done during construction work, he or she should be able to place the wage claim on another contractor in the chain. We also have some children of grief. The Government made a proposal to give regional safety representatives access at workplaces where they have collective agreements but not safety representatives. It was voted down by the bourgeois parties, including the Swedish Democrats, when it was in the Chamber. Instead, an investigation has been set up to deliver August 15, 2022. It is also very exciting to see what it comes up with. It is then a question of how it will be taken forward. I can promise that if the Social Democrats are given the opportunity to have their say in a government, we will ensure that this is carried out in the next parliamentary term. It is a very important reform to get to give the opportunity to have a good working environment and good supervision even in those workplaces where there are no safety representatives. This was a sample of the parts that exist. But we want much more when it comes to work environment management. I look forward to many lively debates and many good proposals in this area in the future as well. Madam President, I would like With this in mind, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-TctMx7TSCuMjz3ATMyGfuW	Madam President, I would like Member Johan Andersson expresses his satisfaction with the government's health and safety policy. I know the honourable Member quite well on the basis that we are sitting the Swedish Work Environment Authority's Transparency Council. We have also worked with health and safety at work during the entire term of office. In fact, I do not think the honourable Member can be satisfied. Let me just give a few examples of what could be termed a failure in health and safety policy from the government. The zero vision that the government set up for fatal accidents has failed. It must be considered a failure when there are still about 41 people every year who die as a result of accidents at work. So there is a zero vision. But the government is incredibly far from it. The efforts that would improve the situation have certainly not been adequate. The Moderates want to double the limitation periods for investigating crimes. We do not see any improvements here either. It is said that the police and prosecutors do not have time to investigate the crimes, which is a pity. It is important to include the experience needed to prevent such things. Accidents at work are increasing dramatically. Occupational diseases, and especially among women in the public sector, are increasing significantly. Every third woman has been on sick leave in the last 12 months. It's horrible. The police have too little resources. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise states that the companies lack support, and so on. My question to Johan Andersson is: How could this happen?
i-3UgRXi4NAUEKUB7GctPLZQ	Madam President, Mrs Saila Quicklund. I don't think Saila Quicklund really heard what I said. I said I was proud but not satisfied. It is then possible to read it in the Minutes if the honourable Member doubts me. I am not happy about the fatal accidents – absolutely not! Of course, we cannot do that until we are down to zero fatal accidents when it comes to work. Work on this must continue. We must ensure that the necessary support measures are in place in terms of inspections, supervision, advice, research and whatever. That's what we can do in this part. I would remind the honourable Member that when the government introduced the zero vision of fatal accidents into working life, it was the Moderates, the Christian Democrats, the Center Party and the Liberals who voted against. It was in June 2016. There's still a lot to do. I am also not satisfied with the limitation periods for occupational health and safety offences. Nevertheless, what I am pleased with is that we have made provision for resources in the area of public prosecutors and the other parts linked to police activities, because there is a shortage today in general in this regard. The question is whether these resources are sufficient or not. The investigation that has been carried out about increased penalties for crimes at all is also one part that is now being taken care of by the government. I heard some Member make a big issue of the fact that there is nothing about the working environment in it, but it is perfectly possible for a future government to add it to the work when it will later be dealt with further.
i-BHxyPeWP9p6goGwvRMK4xq	Madam President, I would like Member Johan Andersson mentions a lot about the crime of working life and the importance of combating it. Politics is connected; it must be connected. Here the government talks hot to curb the crime of working life. I am also a member of the Political Authority's Transparency Council, and we received reports yesterday about how quickly this crime is growing, including in the start-ups in northern Sweden. This must be combated. Unfortunately, the government is talking about working life crime, but the police do not have the tools on a full scale to remedy this. This leads to great frustration in the police, but it is also a rejection of the government. The reason is therefore that the government spends considerably less money on the police, prosecutors and courts. It also means that the resources are not enough to combat this. It is an extremely comprehensive programme that would be needed. When the honourable Member says that this is important, I would like to hear why the efforts that could really counter labour crime do not take place.
i-DRPdEc24GF7qRvCFBF5Pe6	Madam President, I would like I can start with working life crime. I read, happily enough, that the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise in Östergötland has raised the issue of working life crime on the agenda. It has jointly gone out with a number of entrepreneurs and pointed this out and also made an investigation of how much revenue has been lost through unhealthy competition and working life crime. This is a problem that keeps growing. Not least, as the honourable Member says, when it comes to establishment in the northern part of the country. We also have large establishments in the southern part of the country in the future. Large infrastructure projects and other things are on the way, which will focus even more on this. Of course, the whole thing has to keep up. I have not been told from the contacts I have with the Police Authority that there is a lack of resources in terms of working life crime. In our Transparency Council in the Swedish Work Environment Authority, we have received an account of the work on the coordination of this, for which the Swedish Work Environment Authority has a main responsibility, with the regional centres that are now starting. It's not a picture I've got there. But if that is the case, I promise that I will be a messenger in that part and make sure that you look at the possibilities of bringing this in. As far as police activity itself is concerned, there is another discussion. It is about how it should be designed and in what way. I have an earlier background in the Transport Committee, and there we had lively debates about the traffic police. Perhaps now a more balanced part of how to handle it has been found. It is an issue that we must, of course, follow, but it is not a signal that has emerged from the focus on working life crime that it would be a problem based on police activity.
i-JEbHXKXK8hQokt1NDkn3Vw	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Johan Andersson, for a very good speech! When I listen to Johan Andersson from the Social Democrats, I hear that we agree on many issues. This applies, for example, to posting issues – a proposal that had never been passed without the support and commitment of the Swedish democrats. I'm going to ask you a couple of questions about the access rights of the Regional Safety Officers. It is good that we have an investigation in place, and it is good that Johan Andersson intends to address the question of whether he is in the next government. And even if he's not in the next government, I promise I'll push the question of whether or not I'm in it. One question I would like to ask Johan Andersson is: Why do they say no to granting access to all of Sweden's workplaces to the regional safety ombudsmen, who are largely paid by the state? Why is it unlocked that there should be some form of collective agreement or union membership in the workplace? As it stands today in Sweden when it comes to the development of our workplaces, very many employees are without agreements – unfortunately. I also think it is a pity, because I agree with Johan that we need to have agreements or contract-like conditions. But there's a lot of people outside. Are they to be left completely to the side? Should they not be entitled to a safety representative who can enter their workplace? Why do the Social Democrats not want to go all the way? It's pretty simple. It's just one small letter.
i-17WkQsgkSdRiRLxWRvLkFi	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Mr Persson, for the questions. The basis for a good democracy and good conditions in a workplace is the partnership – that you have two strong equal partners. This shows, not least, insurance cover, workplace democracy, wage setting, work environment work and many other parts. All of this shows that there should be two parties who have an approximately equal share in a job. Both Mr Persson and I have a trade union background and know exactly how it works in a workplace where you have an equal relationship that is healthy and really pushes questions. This is also the very basis of the work environment. It should be regulated between the parties. What we can do is regulate legislation, but then the parties have to fill out collective agreements. It is also necessary to deal with health and safety at work. I think it is quite obvious that it is the parties who handle the work environment. It is just as important as insurance cover, wage conditions and other conditions linked to the employment – hence our argument linked to it.
i-MdH453TXYM8wUC2ZM7gEWY	Madam President, I would like I'm not sure if I got the answer to the question. Of course, I agree with Johan Andersson that the negotiations are being conducted by the parties. We are behind the Swedish model, both me and Johan Andersson, so there is no confusion about it. But we have a labour market that looks different today. There are many workplaces where there are no collective agreements or collective agreements. Why should they not become part of the work environment that the government considers so important? The Regional Safety Officers are left out here. They do not enter these workplaces, because there is no link with the trade union organisation. That is the big problem here. The Social Democrats run a policy where everything should be linked to the trade union organisation. I can look after myself. I have 26 years of experience and several years behind me as a safety representative. But when I'm finished here in the Swedish Parliament, I might want to go back to my construction site. If my colleagues then want me again as a safety representative, I will be denied this, because it is the political link that is crucial. I believe that this is a problem in a modern labour market. Everybody's coming. Everyone should be allowed to take part in the work environment. But that is not the case today, and that will not be the case with the proposals put forward by Johan Andersson's party. Why do you not want to go all the way, especially with regard to regional safety representatives? These are paid by the state to 50% today. Why should they not be allowed to enter all workplaces in Sweden without reservation? As it is now, we are putting thousands of employees outside. They are not protected at all by the government's policies. I find that sad and distressing. We need to adapt the work environment to a modern labour market and not stand on the back of old tracks.
i-QpDR51ifh5KPKEt74a4yAm	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, honourable Member, for the supplementary question. I think the honourable Member is turning the discussion around. I think it's starting at the wrong end. It must nevertheless be the case that the Swedish model should be strengthened, and then it is also about the model at our workplaces out there. There should be two equal partners who agree on the conditions at the workplace – pay, insurance, redundancies, work environment work, workplace democracy. There are a lot of words and situations related to this part. The problem is that this system has been eroded by the policies of previous mandates, particularly when it comes to the ability of the trade union to pursue matters. There are many parts where the system has been eroded. Both Mr Persson and I were in on lex Laval, which was a perfect example of this. We have now come up with proposals on labour migration, which is also an important part of what the labour market should look like and be regulated in the future. It is based on the fact that we have a strong and equivalent relationship between the parties in this part. Then it is the employer who always leads and distributes the work. That is the case, and we agree on that. It is regulated in the co-determination law and related legislation, and that is how it should be. But there can't be an extraordinary imbalance in the system.
i-3MPZArDMPfx4w6AyEqbGbi	Frau President! With the redness of shame on my cheeks, I note that I made a beginner's mistake: I insisted nothing. It was at the top of my script, but I jumped over it. Of course, we support all our reservations, but I only support reservation number 7.
i-Ahzbg7x9iQsoi8U32xgRpP	Madam President, I would like I want you to know the name of your district doctor. Your district doctor should also have a reasonable number of patients to be responsible for. When you meet the same person again, it always gets easier. You don't have to start over, and the doctor knows what's important to you. Effective health care must be based on a well-functioning primary care system. This shows both research and international experience. So far, developments in Sweden have moved in the opposite direction. Today, there are political hopes but hardly anyone holding the baton. It is needed if we are to get a good, close care to the entire population. The bill we are dealing with now takes a few steps along the way. That's good! But more are needed, and follow-up is needed so that we know that it will be as we decide. Madam President, I would like We need more employees in primary care if we are to succeed in this. More district doctors are needed who have a reasonable number of patients. The same applies to district nurses and everyone else in the team of physiotherapists, occupational therapists, logos, dieticians and others in primary care. Since 2019 there has been special money in the state budget for primary care. They were created by the budget presented by the Moderates and Christian Democrats. This money is still there and has been slightly increased. However, they should not be used for projects but for more employees. By improving working conditions, having a reasonable number of patients per employee and ensuring that the team includes a wide range of professions, we can reverse the trend and get a primary care that can fulfil its mission and form the basis of healthcare. We're not there, but that's where we're going. Madam President, I would like The government bill is flawed. That is why we Christian Democrats have written a follow-up motion with proposals. We have no bill stating that you are entitled to a fixed-named doctor's contact. In the bill it is a fixed doctor's contact, but not a named one. This means that there should be a doctor, but it is not promised that you will see the same person. It could change. The Christian Democrats believe that you should be able to know the name of your district doctor and that the court should therefore apply to a permanent named medical contact. That is why I would like to support Amendment No 4 tabled by the Christian Democrats. Furthermore, we do not have in the bill written about fixed health contact. In addition to a permanently named doctor's contact, many also need a permanent care contact. In chronic diseases, this is often a very good and effective function. For example, there are diabetes nurses, dementia nurses and elderly nurses. These are very good features that contribute to good care and continuity. The bill does not mention this at all. It should have been there to clarify the whole of primary care. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats have made proposals that we need to develop national principles on compensation and fees and that these should be based on the principle of need. I am pleased that this became the committee's opinion and that there is now a proposal for an announcement to the government about it. Furthermore, there is a proposal for a notice to develop digital care compensation schemes. It is in line with the overall proposal made by the Christian Democrats, and we therefore support this proposal for an announcement by the committee. Madam President, I would like The committee has had to amend the legislative text from the government because the proposal was not clear on patients' freedom of choice. We have therefore, in broad agreement, added a sentence to the legislative text on this. The bottom line is, I'm gonna list myself somewhere. But if at the same time I want to continue going to, for example, the physiotherapist I have had for a long time, I should be able to continue going there even if he or she is not at my health centre. Patients' freedom of choice should not be reduced by the bill. The committee has made this clear. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats also believe that it should be the health centre and its staff who decide when you have plenty of patients – not the region, as the government proposes. Furthermore, we should already have a national system of listing. The government wants it in the long run. We should also have made it possible for those who want to start their own business to do so and be part of the primary care system. Unfortunately, the government's proposal is based on the large-scale. We should have made it possible for more people to be part of it in other ways, not least to cope with sparsely populated areas. If you want to have your own business, for example if you want to start your own business and run it a couple of days a week from the locality where you live, and then maybe work as an employee for the rest of the week at the larger health center many miles away it should be possible. The bill does not write anything about this, and it is a flaw. There is too much large-scaleness in the government's proposal. Madam President, I would like The committee is now proposing to the House to decide on important elements in order to extend primary care. However, we have had to clarify the Government's proposal so that freedom of choice is not diminished for patients. We have also added proposals for announcements on allowances and fees that should have been included in the bill but were missing. The government must not settle down now. Now, every part of this decision is to be followed up. We must provide the country's citizens with coherent health care – an equal and good care for the entire population. Primary care is the basis for success.
i-KJBG6cis1Mhj4FQJMdXY9V	Madam President, I would like Since I am a forgetful person, I would like to begin by calling for the approval of our reservation number 23. We have several reservations on this matter. We think the matter is very good but have some reservations. It is precisely reservation 23 that we think it is particularly important to call for approval. I have the principle that almost every time I talk about health care and health care challenges and problems try to remind me that everything is not hell and not everything is problem but that a lot is actually very good. I think we should be proud of the quality of Swedish healthcare, which is outstanding. But there are obviously challenges in terms of accessibility and response. I can see three major challenges for our entire health system, Madam President, which we may need to work on a little bit more, and then you should see this bill as part of the work that we need to do in the future. The first challenge is about our resources. Are they sufficient for health care? I am probably the first to say that I think we will have to put more resources into our health system in the future in order to address the demographic challenges. At the same time, we must also ask ourselves self-critically whether we are actually using the resources that are already available to health care in the right way. Sweden is one of the countries in Europe with the largest numbers of doctors and nurses, and at the same time it can also be noted that Swedish doctors carry out a quarter of the patient visits made by German doctors. Then you can think about what's wrong with our healthcare system. I am quite convinced that a great deal of the concerns we have to deal with are related to bureaucracy and the growth of bureaucratic control systems. There is a tendency for us to rely far too little on the medical professions and, instead, we are constantly giving new directives to state authorities in particular to control every step that a nurse or doctor takes in our health systems. We should clean up and think about what kind of follow-up and bureaucracy is in fact necessary to ensure patient safety and what kind of bureaucracy is urgently concerned with the willingness of state bureaucrats to check in detail the work of the healthcare profession. So these are the first two challenges: do we have enough resources, and what about bureaucracy? The third challenge has to do with what it looks like with our primary care. We are not alone in building welfare systems. We have quite good welfare systems in the Scandinavian countries, but we compare our welfare system with our neighbours, not least Denmark and Norway, and we can see that in many ways they have greater accessibility and indeed greater proximity to the individual citizens. A Danish and a Norwegian citizen know how to get there in the healthcare system. A Danish and a Norwegian citizen have the name of a person they can talk to when they get sick. We do not have that in the Swedish system. I think we should try to learn from Denmark and Norway and transfer what is good in the Danish and Norwegian systems to the Swedish healthcare system without introducing what is bad. Danish and Norwegian primary care, which impresses me greatly, also has concerns in the way that there are far too few physiotherapists, nurses, dieticians and other professions there. We shall learn from them in what they are good at, but we shall not import the bad parts of the Danish and Norwegian systems. When I was at the beginning of my career in health policy, Anna Starbrink and I went down to Copenhagen to visit a large Danish hospital. It was a tumultuous experience, I must say. As a stockholmer, I am quite used, Madam President, to what it usually looks like in the Södersjukhus emergency department. There, elderly, sick people may be lying on a daily basis waiting for help. When I entered Hvidovre Hospital in Copenhagen, to my great surprise, I discovered that it was empty. My first spontaneous question to a nurse was: Have the citizens of Denmark gone on strike against the health care system? It felt that way. Then they laughed at me a little bit. I was trying to understand what is characteristic of the Danish health system. I talked to some Danes around me, and it turned out that the normal Danish reaction when you get sick is not to go to the emergency department without calling your own doctor. Only then will you go to the hospital. There are, of course, exceptions: If you have a heart attack, you hardly call your doctor and talk in advance. But the normal thing there is not to do as clumsy Stockholmers do – I belong to that group – who head to the Södersjukhus Hospital's emergency department, besiege it and make sure that it does not work for those who actually need it most of all. What makes the Danish system work is precisely that they have primary care that can be trusted. I think we should try to introduce it in Sweden. This bill put forward by the government represents the first steps in this development. It is therefore gratifying that most parties in the Parliamentary Social Committee intend to vote in favour of the bill. We're going to start work to list people. There are goals that are about how many people should have a fixed doctor's contact. We will try to strengthen the continuity of the healthcare system. Today you can change your health care centre as many times as you like. I was at Järvafältet once and visited a publicly driven health centre and worked with very big health challenges. They told me that it was quite common at that health center that people who were not on sick leave went 200 meters to another health clinic where they were on sick leave. We cannot have such a system. One should have a system both for the sake of society and for the sake of the individual citizen, which is characterised by continuity and knowledge of each other and which is sustainable. The health guarantee shall apply where you are listed. Provision should be made for the introduction of a ceiling for the number of patients listed. I would like it to be everywhere, but one must also see the reality that exists today in the Swedish Health Care Association. In many parts of Sweden there is no possibility of getting a doctor to the health centre, and you are dependent on renters. These are the first steps taken in this process. One thing that has hardly been discussed at all is the possibility of having several health choices in place. It is a reform of equality and justice. However, given the very large socio-economic differences, we are now opening up an opportunity for regions to actually create equality choices where additional resources can be invested, additional staff and specific conditions created to address the very big health challenges. It's a fantastic feature of this bill. There has been strong opposition from many who claim that freedom of choice is under threat and other things. In fact, Madam President, I was thinking that I should start by quoting a whole range of patient organisations, general practitioners and others who say that lobbyists, that is, those who fear that the activities of the online medical companies are threatened when there is a continuity of care, are thinking completely wrong. But I'll settle for two quotes. One is from Magnus Isacsson, a general practitioner and chairman of the Swedish Association for General Medicine. He says: Everyone realizes well that the worst nightmare of online medical companies would be if the entire population had a good, though general physician at their health centre with time to take care of their patients. I think that explains some of what we Members of Parliament have been exposed to. We have been subjected to phone calls and courtings and have seen debate articles which believe that freedom of choice is being threatened. I can see that many of those who act are representatives of the online medical companies. I'm very proud of that bill. I think it is fantastic and I can say that functional rights Sweden, the Asthma and Allergy Association, the Neuroförbundet, the Rheumatikförbundet and the National Association of Heartlung say that this does not threaten freedom of choice at all, but will strengthen the quality of Swedish healthcare. They send a greeting to the Swedish parliament: Club through the primary health care bill – it's really good! I think we should do that, Madam President.
i-Nho7k1pqMyE88zPUocoirJ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, honourable Member, for your speech. I am pleased that we share the view that it was necessary to strengthen the proposal so that freedom of choice is clearly stated, so that it is not threatened in the proposal. We also agree on the point of having a fixed-named doctor's contact, to know the name of the doctor. I regret that this is not stated in the bill. But we will have to do that work later and ensure that it is done in that way. What the honourable Member does not want to do is to deal with the compensations and fees in the system. I think it's necessary. If we do not regulate the benefits that are due, I believe that primary care will continue to live with far too poor economic conditions. The proposal for an announcement that comes from us and that became the committee's position is that it must be based on needs management. If I can decide for myself when I want care and can get the most expensive effort without any assessment being made, we do not follow the principle of need. It's not always me as a patient who knows what's best. If there is a heart attack or stroke, it is obvious that you should go to the emergency room and get the best care. But those days you feel a little awkward and want to talk to a doctor directly, that may not be the best thing. Perhaps someone else can give better and more effective advice. A needs assessment is therefore needed. I am pleased that the committee has found a majority in favour of this. The government has chosen to pass the ball on to SKR and hopes that SKR will do so. What is the reason why Mrs Dag Larsson does not want to look at the compensations in the system? I think it is necessary and I would therefore like to ask the question.
i-Cd1LccpJexJv9DsRWhcWE5	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Mr Ankarberg Johansson for the question. I note that in many respects our two parties agree with each other that this is an urgent reform. It was good that we made it clear that freedom of choice is not threatened at all in the proposal that has been put forward. I did not think it did, but in view of the debate that existed, it was good that we could agree on this type of wording together. My view is that as long as the health system is a regional issue, the elected politicians in the regions should have power over what the compensation systems look like. In view of the very large socio-economic gaps that exist in, not least, our metropolitan areas and the health challenges involved, I would like to give local and regional politicians great freedom to design compensation systems. That is the path I think is reasonable. Sometimes I hear from, not least, large healthcare companies operating in many regions that they want uniform compensation systems. But I do not know if I think that their interests are the most important thing to protect, to ensure that large uniform, equal, compensation systems are created for the whole country. Should it not be the citizens of different parts of our country who can participate in discussing what the compensation systems look like in the home regions?
i-36XkpkvLLQEkCTgZ41iXmi	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for your answer. The point is that these are national principles. I also believe that the system needs to be adapted to the conditions. It is not possible to compare Norrbotten in all its parts with Stockholm when it comes to how to use resources in certain situations. You need to add extra support for various reasons. However, with regard to national principles, the point is the last words: that it is based on the principle of need. Today we have a system in which the region with the most favourable system for operators, companies, can be used by everyone. In this way, the system erodes, and it is not the principle of need that governs. That is why I am keen that we should have national principles on compensation and fees and that they should be based on the principle of need. It is only when we get it that we can get the resources that are right for the entire primary care. For me, it is unthinkable to continue using our common tax money if it is not needs-driven. We must take responsibility for this. I think it has now gone so far that it is necessary for the state to intervene. That is why I am pleased that we are proposing an announcement. Nevertheless, I had assumed that the Social Democrats would think it should be a need-driven care. In what other way does the honourable Member wish to ensure that we have national governance in some form to make this possible?
i-R7KN5ttwXZ34uKvq7BrBdD	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for the question. There are areas where you need to talk yourself together nationally. I know it's happening in the SKR medical delegation. That is also where I think that such questions should lie. I would like the regions to be better at learning from each other when designing compensation schemes. It is a rather difficult technique to design compensation systems which do not become too detailed but which respect the professional skills of the professions. I myself have been involved in discussing compensations for different types of measurements of lung capacity, among other things. As a regional politician, I was frustrated that it was not introduced and thought that we would then introduce a special compensation for it. Fortunately, however, the Medical Association managed to convince me that it was foolish to control care through a detail in a replacement system. I am the first to think that we need systems based on the principle of need. But I am opposed to this type of system being designed by state bureaucrats. I think it is the politicians elected by the Swedish people to deal with health care and its compensation systems, the regional politicians, who should deal with this issue.
i-KQryKAd48EU1oKiXRzAwfq	Madam President, I would like Sweden is in many ways a fantastic country. This applies to most areas, including health care. Our medical results are world-class. And if you become acutely ill, you are as a Swede in one of the world's safest countries. Madam President, I would like However, we are struggling with a number of problems that are linked in different ways. We were already ahead of the pandemic one of the three countries in Europe that had the longest healthcare queues. We still are. This means that people in need of care have to wait a long, unreasonably long time for help. This can lead to a problem or even dangerously long time to get a diagnosis and, at worst, to severe worsening of the disease. This means an increase in human suffering, which is of course the most serious, but also increased costs for more advanced care and for the duration of care. We are also one of the countries where most tax money goes to health care. So in election times one is a little worried that the only solution forward will be to add more resources. Then I think we're dangerous out there. We also need, like our colleague Dag Larsson, to highlight that we will look at how many doctors and how many nurses we have and how much time our healthcare professional spends with patients. Do you do the right things? Can we as politicians do more, including when it comes to hijacking administration? Madam President, I would like The Moderates always put the patients' best interests first. We want Sweden to have a high-quality healthcare and care that is available when you need it. We want healthcare and care to be characterised by diversity and choice, as well as by development and change and innovation. It is just that Sweden must first of all overcome the long queues, the low accessibility and the extensive regional differences. This also applies in primary care. Primary care and future good and close care are, of course, crucial in this regard. Medical care has changed in so many positive ways. Many diagnoses no longer lead to death. Many people live with chronic diseases, and this requires that you receive care close to yourself and do not have to go to hospitals to the same extent. It also requires greater accessibility. Our close care needs to be open for longer. It can't close at 4 o'clock or 5 o'clock in the afternoons. Nor should we have our old, sick and fragile in the emergency rooms because the medical skills are not close to them. Of course, it is important for us Moderates that the patient should be able to choose. The patient should be able to choose different providers of primary care depending on the needs and situation. Swedish healthcare needs to be developed in the direction of increased accessibility in close care and in primary care and towards more systematic, preventive and long-term health promotion efforts. If we are to meet the challenge of the future, it is absolutely crucial that we work to a much greater extent to promote health and prevention. There, primary care needs to play a major role. In addition, care needs to be developed from fragmented care and care by the most ill and fragile to coherent and coordinated care with more continuity in healthcare contacts. For example, in order to make healthcare more accessible and efficient, with short waiting periods, it is necessary that as many people as possible can use easily accessible digital services throughout the care chain and at all levels of care, regardless of the provider and regardless of the principal. Madam President, I would like The patient's right to choose care should be strengthened and broadened. It should not be reduced. The patient should be supported and helped to get their care on time and to find relevant information about quality, waiting times and the range of care providers. The patient should own their own patient data. This is the basis of our proposal to improve the long-term use of digitalisation as a tool for improving the efficiency of health care, not least primary care. Providing care and support to patients with chronic diseases is becoming a more and more complex activity. It is also becoming more important and important. This is because people with chronic diseases need care from many different activities. This may include, for example, the need for medical care and support from doctors, physiotherapists, nurses, physiotherapists and orthopedists. At the same time, care needs to support patients' self-care more and more. Madam President, I would like If you're a little mean– you shouldn't really be – you could say: Rarely have so many waited for so much and got so little. Unfortunately, the government's primary care bill was a bit of a thumb. We certainly go in the right direction in several parts, but there are many who had hoped for and expected more from the government. Expectations were huge. We Moderates are in favour of listing and listing, but the design of the proposal makes the result very uncertain. Above all, it is deeply worrying that the government wants to limit patients' ability to choose different providers of care depending on whether they primarily need e.g. digital chronic care or whether they need to make a physical visit to their listed medical contact. Let's be honest! This is not the first time that the Social Democrats have shown that patients' freedom of choice is not a high priority. If you read the original text in the bill – the committee has now made a much-needed clarification – it feels like a new attempt to reduce the diversity of healthcare and care and greatly hinder patients' ability to choose healthcare providers and providers depending on availability, situation and needs. I would like to remind you of the previous proposal on this theme, 2014/ 15:15, the lifting of the requirement for health choice systems in primary care. In fact, it was proposed in concrete terms that the choice of care should be voluntary for the regions, that is to say the then county councils. We Moderates had wanted to do as the Riksdag has done in many other cases with the government's unfinished and half-done proposals. We'd like to send it back to them to do it over and do the right thing. We saw clear concerns about the patient's future choice. We did not get support for this, and we regret that. However, we are result-oriented, and our focus is primarily on patients. Precisely to ensure their rights and freedom of choice, I am pleased that we found a compromise in the Committee on Social Affairs. It got from our side considered the second best. The committee proposes that a clarification be added to the Health Care Act that listing does not affect the individual's ability to choose the publicly funded outpatient. In addition, I would like to point out the two important announcements, which relate to some of what we Moderates think is missing from the bill. These are national principles for reimbursement systems and reimbursement systems for digital care. Digital care is here to stay, I'd say. The lack of accessibility in, not least, primary care has accelerated this development. This has led, among other things, to digital chronic care, which is now starting to deliver good medical quality in several areas. And the patients, our focus, are happy. Madam President, I would like Let's take a first step along the way. It's good, but there's a lot missing. Although we have now contributed to the compromise on clarifying the patient's freedom of choice, can we be honest and say that we have some concerns about this – has that been enough? Furthermore, we are concerned about how the important digital care, which patients want, can be managed. But we are, as I said, result-oriented. Although I would like to press in particular for reservation 1 on the rejection of the proposal, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 11, which points to the possibility of listing. It is a matter of a firm doctor or contact with care and coordination in the healthcare team. That is something that we believe should have been included in this bill.
i-8HLWY8jeWctEXkZFHqTpMB	Madam President, I would like Sweden needs to equip Swedish health care and, in particular, Swedish primary care. We agree with the government on the importance of using the resources and the profession of health care in a more satisfactory and effective way, quite simply. We spend a lot of resources on healthcare today in Sweden, but we get relatively little care for the money. We simply have a system error, one might say. There are also relatively large variations between different parts of the country in terms of the patient's access to primary care and other close care. We need to deal with this. This primary care reform is largely but far from all. Among other things, we see the staffing situation as a big puck in the whole when it comes to really getting in place what is the purpose and spirit of the primary care reform. We believe that Sweden needs to take greater national responsibility and leadership in order for all patients regardless of their place of residence to have good access to primary care and close care of a high quality. Most studies show that healthcare does not meet people's expectations of accessibility, participation and continuity. More and more patients are waiting considerably longer for care than the health guarantee says. They are a major failure in Swedish healthcare that the population simply does not get the right care at the right time. Madam President, I would like As early as 2016, the Government's National Coordinator concluded that primary care is undersized in relation to expectations and potential. Primary care is also relatively low in the population. If Sweden is to meet the challenges in healthcare, we simply need a strong primary care base. We all agree on that. However, the Swedish Democrats wonder whether parts of the bill really contribute to the accessibility and close care that the population of Sweden needs. We see a particular challenge in terms of both accessibility and human resources in those parts of Sweden that are a little more sparsely populated. But it is also a fact that there are challenges in running primary care in rural areas. Here we see that the development of not least digital care is a necessary and important factor for more accessible care. In the proposal on listing, digital care units have been excluded for those who do not have a permanent presence in the region. It tends to limit accessibility, as I have mentioned, not least in rural areas. We also see that there may be some obstacles to achieving objectives through clarifications in the legislation and that it is generally problematic when it comes to a permanent medical contact. Of course, we see it as an end in itself that primary care works and will work to link patients to a doctor, which I have mentioned not least in order to increase continuity and understanding. However, the question is whether it is right to legislate on fixed medical contact at present. We have been raising the issue of fixed medical contact for a long time and pushing the issue for a long time, but as the situation is in Sweden today, with a huge lack of staffing, the question is whether the legislation really achieves its purpose. We have a shortage of doctors, and we also have a shortage of specialists in general medicine and primary care. We simply need to ensure that we are given incentives to increase staffing. Several consultation bodies also highlight similar problems. Among other things, we see it from the Swedish Agency for Health and Welfare Analysis and the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare, which says that it tends to be superfluous to further clarify the issue in the law. Region Norrbotten also suggests that fixed medical contact for the entire population is not feasible based on the availability of doctors. We can agree. It is also interesting that government representatives here in the pulpit talk so much about Denmark's exceptional work on this issue. That is something that my colleague, Mr Per Ramhorn, has been speaking here for a very long time. We need to look at the good examples from Denmark and Norway, for example, when it comes to getting the care queues down and getting more effective care. Mr President, I would like to The proposal also proposes that the patient be limited to two choices of care, i.e. two changes per year. In the report Governance for a more equal care presented figures that only 24 per cent of all Swedes had changed health care centres over a three-year period, while just over 11 per cent had thought about changing but not done so. Thus, the replacement of performers in substance is not a major challenge, and we see for that reason either that such a restriction would be relevant to legislate on, unless it is the case that the problem is very great especially in Järva. For the individual who, for various reasons, for example because of a move or for other reasons, wants to change the performer, such a write-up can only be an obstacle. It should not really be included in the law, nor can it be considered proportionate. It is a small issue in the report as a whole, but I think we should ask ourselves what really is relevant to legislate on and not. Perhaps this is an issue on which we would not really have to legislate. Mr President, I would like to We also see challenges and obstacles in limiting the guarantee to where the person is listed. This goes against the vision we have of both working towards making healthcare capacity available through a health guarantee candidacy where available care capacity exists for those who have waited longer than the health guarantee that exists, and the goal of reducing the country's care queues, which are currently extremely long and where the waiting time itself can lead to a worsening of the patient's disease picture. I commend our reservation 20. I would therefore like to conclude my speech a little abruptly and thank you for a good debate.
i-AM1F5HtqrpJXBoXJ37p1cj	Mr President, I would like to Swedish healthcare is in many ways amazing, but it is obvious that we have a number of problems. One of the major problems is that we have had a primary care that has not worked well. The difference is very great when compared to other countries. In most other countries primary care is the base. That's where you go first when you get sick. This has not been the case in Sweden. In Sweden, health care is carried out in our hospitals, and what they do not want to do is end up in primary care. In most other countries, the base is also that you have a fixed doctor in primary care who follows you in years, decades, and that is where you turn when you need medical care or good advice. In other countries, up 95 to 98% of the population have a permanent medical contact while in Sweden it has been as low as 40 or perhaps even 35 percent, according to some measurements. This has had severe consequences. When you fall ill in Sweden and need medical care, you may not primarily turn to primary care. Instead, you sit down in the emergency room and wait, because there you always get help, or you get a private health insurance or use a digital solution. All these solutions are good, but it would be a much more effective system if we also in Sweden had a primary care base with a fixed medical contact as a key in. This meant that one of the issues that we pushed the hardest when negotiating the January agreement was just starting the restructuring of Swedish primary care. This is a very important piece of the puzzle in that work. Where, then, are the benefits of getting a permanent doctor's contact in primary care and a strong primary care for the Swedish population? It is not least about being able to work preventively. I sometimes meet some people who say that a healthy 25-year-old can't possibly need a fixed doctor. Yes, it is precisely the healthy 25-year-old who needs a fixed doctor's contact! The reason we have good dental health in Sweden is that dental care works preventively so that we do not get sick. If we had a much stronger primary care, we could, for example, have a more effective cancer screening. Even in the case of people with chronic diseases and rare diagnoses, it would be extremely valuable to have one and the same doctor in the primary care that you go to and who can then have close contact with a specialist or, at the end of the day, a superspecialist. This could also make it much more attractive to work in primary care. It is not fun to work as a doctor in the primary care and constantly meet new patients, to stand as if by an assembly line where new patients come day in and day out. Then you lose the very essence of this work: continuity in medical and patient contact. We would also have a much more effective healthcare system. It has been said here from the speaker's chair that a German doctor takes 30 - 35 patients a day, while a Swedish doctor may take 10 - 12 patients. It is not surprising in a situation where the German doctor has patients that he or she knows for many years. There's a visit in maybe five, ten minutes. For the Swedish doctor in primary care who meets the patient for the first time, this means a much greater time. So this also represents a first step towards more effective health care. This bill was good in many ways, but it contained a major flaw, namely that there were a number of wordings, not least in the legislative text, which could be interpreted for the malevolent region or county council as a way of limiting freedom of choice. There were several of us in the committee who were not at all interested in it, and I am therefore very pleased that we in the committee were able to agree on a concrete change of law, a sharp piece of legislation in Parliament, which will remove the risk of it as far as possible. This legislation cannot be interpreted by any region as a tool to limit the patient's choice. Another thing that is very good in the bill is that you open up the possibility of introducing listing ceilings. The primary care unit that sees patients coming by the thousands and wants to list itself has today had no opportunity at all to say stop other things in exceptional cases. Now we are opening up the possibility for the unit that feels that they have neither premises nor staff to accept actually requesting a listing ceiling. It is also a major step forward. Another step forward is that it actually opens up to other doctors, not just specialists in general medicine, to work as permanent doctors in primary care. It is clear that one of the problems in primary care is that we have far too few general medical specialists. When the corresponding change was made in Norway at the turn of the millennium, the doors of primary care were opened so that other doctors could go out and start working as primary care physicians and permanent doctors in primary care. As a result, quite a few took that step, for it is fun to work in primary care. With this bill, we open up that possibility. This applies to children's medical specialists, internal medical specialists, geriatrics and also to all other specialists who are under training to eventually become a general medical specialist. Clearly, there are shortcomings in the proposal. Therefore, this will not be the last time we discuss primary care in the Swedish Parliament. One major shortcoming is that the problems that exist in the Swedish rural area have not been addressed more clearly. There was a suggestion in the investigation that the smallest unit in the primary care should be a doctor and a nurse. Then it decreases with physiotherapist, occupational therapist and so on to refer patients further away in the situations you need it. Unfortunately, the government did not move on, and I regret that. The problems of primary care in rural areas are found in Sweden and in many other countries, and a solution is needed. I am in favour of the proposal in the report, but I support our reservations and therefore also call for the approval of reservation number 13.
i-F6kB2UwmjpVkX1Qvc1Co1K	Mr President, I would like to You call your health care centre and you get in directly, or you call digitally – it's supposed to work – and you get your fixed contact, not one of many rent doctors – so I want the primary care to work. Today we are debating how primary care should look forward. Already today there are systems where patients list themselves on a health centre, but there is no continuity because the basic problem is sometimes lack of skills to staff primary care. Personally, I'm listed on a named fixed doctor. It's luck. But it is not lucky to decide how it should work in primary care, but there should be a sustainable structure. The Left Party believes that if it is serious that accessibility and continuity should increase and that patients should become more involved, there must be resources and a strong priority throughout the health care system about what to do. For the Left Party, it is important that those with the greatest need have access to healthcare, regardless of their place of residence and other factors. It is also stated in the Health Care Act that patients with the greatest care needs should have priority to care. What we are now seeing is a system based more on demand and immediate availability. It has the opposite effect, and the clearest example is the digital healthcare providers who encourage people sometimes to seek for a little easier ailments. One might ask whether there will be continuity, and one might ask whether it will be equal. Care analysis has looked at the issue. It's not that people in Västernorrland make so many calls. Maybe it was mostly on Kungsholmen... if I'm going to do a little ralliing. The Left Party notes that the starting point should be equal health care, which requires equal access to doctors and other health professionals. The provision of competence by healthcare professionals also requires a national perspective and that an appropriate number of doctors and other staff are required in order to have an appropriate number of care places. Basic and continuing training needs to be ensured in a completely different way at national level. It is now, and it is for the future. We want to see a long-term national economic plan for initial, continuing and continuing education to ensure precisely the need for doctors and other staff in primary care. Not everyone can move around in their pots in 21 regions and hope for the best, Mr President. The intention of the left is, of course, that primary care should reach better areas of poor health. How are we going to get targeted efforts when the market's influence on primary care has increased? How are we going to reduce health gaps? Has the freedom of establishment, the Freedom of Choice Act, benefited them with the worst conditions? I dare say it's not quite like that. Freedom of choice is good. We support freedom of choice, that is, you as a patient can choose where to go. But we believe that freedom of establishment is a problem because it increases inequality. We believe that the problem is that there is a wild-west syndrome in Swedish healthcare when it comes to private actors. There is a right of establishment for health care companies, and there is a market for private health insurance. The net doctors are pushing through a completely unregulated health market, and politicians are quite passive about this – in the stands or ex-politicians in various boardrooms. Mr President, I would like to Well-being today suffers from staff shortages, which are estimated to increase over time. This is a labour shortage, which we must somehow get to work. There is thus a need for increased government control over the development of resources and skills. Conditions are also needed to get staff to stay, do a good job and do what they are trained for. Targeted efforts are needed to improve staff conditions throughout health care. I think you can say that after meeting representatives of the Medical Association, the Health Association and the Municipal Council. There are strong cries that something must be done. I'm starting to think about what it's all about when you talk about increased productivity and efficiency. I hope, of course, that as much bureaucracy as possible can be removed at all levels. Those who already run fast in the corridors of care should not have to run faster, but should walk at the appropriate pace. There is a need for strong support for health care in the most sparsely populated regions. We've written about that in our exercise. It is important to find a structure to reach out to areas with a wide distance and to offer health examinations to people who are not reached by healthcare, not least women with a short education. A permanent doctor's appointment, named if the patient wants it, we think it's a good thing. It is also good that there should be the possibility of other permanent contacts within the primary care units, i.e. nurse, psychologist and so on. Precisely psychologists and these types of employees in primary care will be needed as there is an increase in mental illness at different levels. Then primary care must be able to accept more patients who, for various reasons, seek help for their own mental illness. We want to ensure that there is access to equivalent care throughout the country. We think it is good to list a specific doctor, as I have said before. The reasoning put forward that legislation on fixed medical contact can be difficult to live up to when fixed doctors have not been present in a number of places in the regions does not hold up. The lack of access to general practitioners needs to be addressed, but the profession may need to be complemented by other skills and data exchange in order to make better use of human resources. The government should take measures to ensure that listing is done with a doctor or other contact with healthcare, we believe. That is why I am in favour of reservation 7. The Left Party does not believe in making the state the head of the entire health care system, but in a number of areas there is a need for increased national governance. For example, it is reasonable to look at investments in health record systems, another digital infrastructure to be managed by the state, major property investments, care queues, emergency stocks, medical lists, biobanks, precision medicine and so on. The Left Party believes that all patients should have the right to equal care according to law and that authorities and caregivers have the responsibility and obligation to organise care so that it becomes equal. It must be made clear. Equality should take precedence. Overuse and underuse of care also become unequal. It is of the utmost importance that there be a policy that promotes that the person whose need for care is greatest is also the person who should be first in line. Care will always be more costly in rural areas due to current demographics and in areas where there is already poor health. We also want the government to investigate how emergency departments, primary care and other healthcare can be organised in a patient-safe way in sparsely populated areas with a specific health situation with a focus on accessibility and quality. According to the bill, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare sees a risk that digital care providers will concentrate their activities in certain regions and thus add to any unequal supply geographically. The National Board of Health and Welfare believes that it is therefore important for the regions to ensure that digital health services are available throughout the country, i.e. at health centres within public health care. The Agency for Health and Care Analysis agrees with the need to ensure greater accessibility of digital care. On the other hand, the Authority is not convinced that the investigation's proposal will guarantee equal access to digital healthcare in the future. If today's digital care providers are to be part of the same freedom of choice system as traditional primary care providers and therefore need to be able to offer both digital and physical care, there is also a high risk that they will choose to limit their activities to larger cities; we have seen that. Private digital care providers also reach on average healthier patients than those for whom primary care is responsible. I think you can think about that. There is no lack of evidence of inequality in healthcare, and there is no doubt that inequality prevails. There is probably no politician who would say that he or she is in favour of a policy that is more unequal, but we risk getting there by completely wrong priorities. We want to counteract this. As I said, I agree with our reservations, but I only support reservation 2 and reservation 7.
i-JDh1pcJpGDwmVDWYrSLZVa	Mr President, I would like to I would like to say: finally! Today's decision is an important step, I think. It is a decision for continuity while maintaining freedom, and it is very important for many people in our country. Since the January agreement capsized in the middle of the negotiations on this particular bill, I am pleased that we in committee have worked further, reviewed what is missing and been able to agree on two additions on more sensible remuneration. It is about protecting the people who have the greatest needs, whether the care they need is digital or physical. I think that feels nice and good. However, some things are still lacking, according to us Liberals. Here's the thing: Houses don't provide care, but people provide care. And people must be able to give good care to others without being worn out by themselves. We believe that patients should be allowed to list themselves with a named doctor who has plenty of time for his patients. We also believe that there should be a recommended range for how many patients you can actually list with the same doctor while maintaining the quality of care, Mr President. This is important for patient safety and also for the working environment, and we believe that it would make more people choose to work in primary care. We also feel that there is something missing about the need for healthcare to be provided in different directions. It is not reasonable that, as in the current legislative proposal, it should depend on where the county border goes if my health guarantee will apply. Then it may be that the health guarantee applies if I choose a health centre that is 50 km away from cheese but not if I choose to go to the health centre that is a mile away from the west. It's just crazy. We believe that the care guarantee should apply where the patient chooses to list himself, regardless of which county this happens to be. Of course, we also believe that all information should be easy for patients to find and compare. It is for patients care is available, and desktop products must not destroy or make it more difficult for people. We still have one more problem that is very large, Mr President, and that is that access to care is at its lowest today where the need for care is greatest. This is often true in rural and sparsely populated areas, where many people are older and therefore naturally need more care, where the level of education is lower and in suburbs where many people are born outside the EU and often need more care. In these very places access to health care is at its lowest. This is completely upside down. We Liberals believe that it must be possible to provide patient-related, small-scale care in urban areas and suburbs where large-scale care is difficult to establish. You shouldn't have to become a big entrepreneur or some kind of corporate mogul. You should not have to work in a huge workplace to be able to provide good care. We are absolutely convinced that greater opportunities for professionals – whether midwives, doctors or physiotherapists – to run small, caring health clinics across the country would make more people choose to work in primary care. Finally, I would like to thank you, Dag Larsson, for your words on bureaucracy, bureaucrats and over-administration a moment ago. I think this is one of the further steps we really need to take together to secure care in this country. I think that follow-up is, of course, important, but that it must be the right follow-up. It must not be too much time-consuming follow-up without justification. Very few people love to be governed in detail, Mr President, and Dag Larsson knows that. Very few people get healthier with piles of paper, especially if they are drowned in them, and that applies whether you are a patient or an employee. I would like to say that there is no room in Swedish health care, and indeed not at all in the public sector, to produce blankets for state bureaucrats. This cannot be the main task of care; it just cannot be done. That being said, we still have things to do. It is about bureaucracy, small-scaleness, more time for patients, an even stronger continuity and even more choice for those who need it. But I still think we're on the right track. I think we are taking important steps when we in a moment are clubs going through this bill, and I am sure there are many of us who want to take further steps. I support the Liberals' proposal on small-scale care, reservation 27 in paragraph 21. I would also like to ask for your approval to be included as one of your Musketeers, Dag Larsson. I promise to make myself a stronghold in shark skins if I can be part of the fight against bureaucracy.
i-Xx3wJJ7JnKtBpEeehaThH4	Mr President, I would like to I dare not stand here in the speaker's chair and promise things at the same level as the previous speaker. But a little bit I might dare to discuss. I naturally agree with all our reservations, but in order to save time, I only support reservation 15, which deals with broader information measures, such as self-care and the best level of care to avoid unnecessary visits to care and get right from the start. Mr President, I would like to Many voices are heard for the importance of being able to choose health care providers. Part of the search for healthcare providers is about finding the best possible care. But really the best possible care should be available everywhere so that you as a patient can feel safe and confident of receiving the care and support you so badly need. Sometimes I can feel that in the debate it is the choice of caregivers that is the end of the patient's life. For us in the Green Party, the purpose is rather participation and influence in the health meeting itself. We think that the conditions for influence and participation in the meeting need to be strengthened. Being able to take in information in a summons or during a meeting, regardless of age, functional variation, anxiety about test results or language difficulties, to name a few, is essential for health and well-being, security and sense of empowerment in your life. We therefore welcome the development of a strategy to strengthen the patient's position as a complement to the primary care reform. One proposal that we have highlighted is, for example, that the individual or his/her relatives should have the right of initiative themselves when it comes to establishing a coordinated individual plan, the SIP. Currently, only the region or the municipality can initiate SIP. Although care should be responsive to the individual's needs, this is not always the case. Mr President, I would like to The fact that health in society is so unevenly distributed and that the conditions for health differ so greatly is a major problem. The Public Health Act that the Green Party wants to see could create conditions for more equal health. The primary care reform involves preventive thinking. Now we do not know how many people will choose the nearest healthcare provider geographically or how many, if the rule is introduced, will get the nearest health centre if you make a non-choice. However, in the case of a larger number, we can see that the health centre or health centre could, with advantage, carry out health promotion work in the geographical area. This could be a task that is connected and provides opportunities to cooperate well and to promote health with other actors in the area – such as schools, BVCs, employers or associations. Working together in the neighborhood can also be one of several pieces of the puzzle to take the next step for a good and close care. We would like the government to allow the appropriate authority to review how a function for health promotion work based on geographical area linked to healthcare providers in primary care could be designed. Mr President, I would like to I will now quote an old Committee motion from the Green Party: Sweden is already relatively far ahead in this regard. But there is an enormous potential for development here. Sweden could develop this area even more and invest in becoming the country with excellence in rural medicine. ..................................................... So we wrote in a committee motion in 2013. I think it is good that the Left Party is lifting rural medicine, and as an environmental party, I welcome more parties to say, as happened yesterday, that it was a mistake not to support the proposal. You shouldn't have to be afraid to legitimise the Green Party's policy – that's very good policy. The whole idea of the primary care reform is that more care should be provided in primary care. People should have sufficient confidence to turn there, and fewer should turn incorrectly or unnecessarily to other levels of care. This, of course, places demands on the regions to redirect their resources so that they also go to primary care. How to do this and what economic models you use there may be different solutions to, but it is very important that it happens and that it works. Resources are needed for primary care to develop and become the engine of the conversion work that it is supposed to be. To conclude, I would just like to say that I cannot stress enough the importance of this reform becoming a reality.
