i-5QhJVwTfvrZFXfbaGsRRb2	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. This parliamentary term has indeed allowed us to discuss and debate the important animal welfare issues properly. We have a Social Democratic Government which has put animal welfare issues high on the agenda and has left several important proposals that we have dealt with and decided on in this House in the past. Today we have the last debate on animal welfare for this parliamentary term. Animal welfare is a topic that concerns us, and we are many who have animals themselves and feel a great deal of commitment to these issues. This can be seen in the consensus that exists on several issues, but also in the 202 motion requests that have been submitted and dealt with in this report. Sweden should have the best animal welfare in the world. We have one of the world's strongest animal welfare laws, and we have a very good animal health situation in Sweden. Animals are living and sentient beings, and we humans have a very great responsibility for the animals that are in our care. Animal welfare is a very important issue for me and for the Social Democrats. The fact that animals are to be treated well and protected against unnecessary suffering is self-evident and is laid down in the animal welfare legislation we have. This applies to all animals that we have in our care and at all times during the animal's life. That this is an important issue is not only heard in words from us, but also in action. Under the Social Democratic leadership, we have introduced a new modern animal welfare law with, among other things, stricter requirements for animals to exercise natural behaviour and that behavioural disorders should not occur. We have set up an investigation to review animal health legislation, and we have invested in the continued financing of Sweden's 3R centre at the Swedish Board of Agriculture. In order to address the problems of abandoned and feral cats, we have recently decided on a new law requiring the labelling and registration of cats. We have also decided on more stringent penalties and a more effective system of sanctions in the case of animal offences. We have fought, and we continue to fight in the European Union, for increased animal welfare requirements, for example, in transport and for the reduction of antibiotic use. Mr President, I would like to This is a comprehensive report and I do not have time to go into all the important parts. But something I would like to highlight is the trade and illegal introduction of animals and the issue of antibiotics. We saw during the coronapndemine that many took the opportunity to buy pets, and the demand for especially dogs increased. This demand has allowed rogue dog breeders, smugglers and organised crime to make money. The suffering and the risks of the spread of infection caused by such activities are unacceptable. Crime is a threat to the whole of democratic society and must be combated by all means. Successful law enforcement requires early prevention and the commitment of society as a whole. To overcome this problem, a broad range of actions from different actors is required and they have the right tools to be able to act. As has been highlighted in the report, it is a question of the Customs Agency having the possibility of stopping vehicles to search for dogs, of veterinarians being able to report suspicion of the illegal introduction of animals to other authorities and other efforts to curb and combat the organised smuggling of pet animals. Above all, however, it is also a question of continuing cooperation within the EU and of me taking responsibility as a buyer, seeking information and controlling the breeder. The Government has commissioned a special investigator to carry out a comprehensive review of the rules on Customs' powers in control and law enforcement activities, and this will now be reported on 16 May this year. Dog smuggling is illegal in Sweden. Buying or selling a smuggled dog is associated with criminal liability. At the same time, we are seeing a worrying development with increasing smuggling of dogs. It must be fought vigorously. It is important that the authorities cooperate and that all potential animal owners know that buying a smuggled dog is illegal and directly dangerous. Mr President, I would like to Antibiotic resistance is one of today's major challenges. The strong animal protection we have in Sweden makes our animals healthier. Instead of keeping animals healthy in Swedish agriculture, as in some other countries where animals are propped full of antibiotics, through good animal husbandry and preventive measures. The global over-use of antibiotics in animal husbandry is a serious concern that can lead to the spread of multi-resistant bacteria. It is extremely important that we work together in the EU and globally to remove the unnecessary use of antibiotics in the animal industry. This is absolutely crucial if we want antibiotics that work in the future as well. Sweden has been ahead for many years, and already in the 80's we raised the issue of antibiotics. Earlier we were laughed at, I have been told by our former rural minister Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht. But today there is another sound in the bark; now we are learning from Sweden. We showed that it is possible to combine responsible antibiotic use with high yields. That makes us an important role model in the outside world. We have strong collaboration between the state, industry and research, and we shall continue to be a model on this important issue. We will share expertise and resources to contribute to a more responsible use and a reduced need for antibiotics in animal husbandry globally. In 2020, the government decided on an updated Swedish strategy for the work against antibiotic resistance, and Sweden has long worked internationally for the reduction of antibiotic resistance. But there is a need to review and streamline the work. The study on the efficiency and development of Swedish work for responsible and reduced use of antibiotics in animal husbandry globally is now due in July 2022. Hopefully, the government will then be able to take note of well-prepared proposals that we can also take forward. Antibiotic resistance is a growing global threat, and the coronapandemine has also shown the importance of good and healthy animal husbandry. Infections that move between wild animals, domestic animals and humans have the potential to develop into new pandemics. Good animal husbandry and good animal welfare are therefore both an ethical responsibility that we humans have and also the best way we have to keep animals and people healthy.
i-CgXdEvecdpcNqMUdbtjive	Mr President, I would like to For time winning, I only ask for reservation 23 on new technology, digitalisation and artificial technology. Animal welfare issues are an extremely important area. We know that it is a broad area where there are several different issues that we need to process and change in order for animals to have it as well as possible. We have animal welfare that is among the best in the world. We shall be proud of this. But that does not mean that we can sit back and relax. We in Parliament are to ensure that animals avoid unnecessary suffering, and we humans are to take our responsibility and protect animals from the risk of harm. These words pass me on to the important functions of society that contribute to animal welfare. I'm talking about our important veterinarians, but I'd also like to stop at the customs services. Mr President, I would like to All animals kept by humans are subject to animal welfare legislation, which must act preventively. The goal is for the animals to have a good life and be able to behave naturally. The Animal Welfare Act also states that acts involving physical or mental suffering for animals are prohibited. The welfare of animals requires clear and responsible legislation and regulations that regulate protection and prevention. Today, however, individual owners of animals are treated differently depending on where they live or work in the country. One of the County Administrative Board's controls can have a different outcome in the north than it gets in the south. A pregnant dog gets the right care on time in Central Sweden but not in southern Sweden due to the large veterinary shortage that prevails. That is a problem, and we do not have enough effort there. Smuggled puppies, who have been and are on the wallpaper, are also a major problem. Some smugglers are stopped by the Finnish Customs at the Öresund Bridge, while others escape and find other roads into Sweden. Who will suffer in this? Yes, the animals. This legal and care uncertainty is extremely serious. Offences against animals and risks of infection with the introduction of contraband dogs must be prevented through increased penalties. Good access to safe veterinary care must be accompanied by a chain of law that is in place and a more effective control system. It is also important that sufficient capacity is available in the judicial system. If authorities point out shortcomings that may involve crime, there must be the capacity of, for example, customs or the police to deal with this. There is no such thing as the quality of the legislation does not matter. If animals are at risk of harm, we must strengthen it and make adjustments. I would like to go once again into an area that I have talked about several times earlier in this House and which I know others will go into. This is a sad thing to say, namely the smuggling of dogs. Time and again we have had reports of this, not least during the pandemic when everyone wanted to get a dog. When not all breeders had time, the market for smuggled dogs was created, trying to meet the needs of buyers. We have received several reports, repeated reports, in various media channels. I keep watching this, and I see that it keeps coming all the time. This has meant that organised crime around dog breeding has emerged and is also established here in Sweden. Cubs are raised in factories where bitches are forced to mate for constant puppies. You take the puppies from the bitch so they miss out on the connection and don't know if the puppies are okay. Diseases and parasites occur. Rabies, which we have been spared from in Sweden, is not uncommon. The puppies are then sold considerably cheaper with false papers and false identities. One example is startling. In January, two men were convicted of dog smuggling, but they were exonerated from suspicions of animal cruelty. In my world, this is insane and incredible. The men were caught on the Öresund Bridge. Both were convicted of serious smuggling, mainly due to the vaccination status of the puppies. Five of the puppies had been vaccinated against rabies prematurely, and five had not been vaccinated at all. A councillor at Malmö District Court stated to the media that the main reason why the smuggling offence was considered a serious crime was that it is of significant public interest that Sweden remains rabies free. The men were absolved of suspicions of animal cruelty. These puppies were completely emaciated and in really bad condition, which is not uncommon. That would require the arrival of a veterinarian who makes an assessment. Unfortunately, in some cases you have to put the puppies in place because they are so sick and suffering. This is something that I think we need to prioritise. Customs must be given increased powers in order to be able to handle this as much as is needed in Sweden today. The poor condition of the puppies should have been evidence enough of animal cruelty. Mr President, I would like to It is important that Sweden strengthens the laws that are there to protect animals and that we value animals highly. Animals can't express themselves more than, for example, whining or screaming when someone is mean to them. Puppies in bad shape can't even do that. We need to ensure that the law protects the animals smuggled into Sweden. The Customs Agency needs to be strengthened with customs officials in order to catch the criminals who are part of a criminal network and bring animals into Sweden. In addition, we need to strengthen the veterinarians in Sweden so that there is good access to them. When it comes to people's use of antibiotics, there is much to do. In the case of animal husbandry, the prescription of antibiotics varies widely across EU Member States. In Sweden, prescriptions are very restrictive today, while in many other European countries antibiotics can even be bought without prescription. We need to be more careful about this and check that we reduce the use of antibiotics.
i-8LkFo2u2ASDCvXuJDL8hoK	I would like to draw the honourable Member's attention to the fact that the content of court judgments must not be criticised or debated in this House.
i-7yGRxERno2HzzhnpfYPqtV	Mr President, I would like to In a troubled time, it is common for questions about defence, economics, self-sufficiency etc. to be what is on the agenda and what for many feels most topical. At the same time, work continues in the Riksdag, where we deal with all the issues. Today we are debating animal welfare, an issue which affects many people and which is very important not least in agriculture. We in Sweden have high demands on our animal keepers. In so doing, we are also one of the countries in the world with the lowest use of antibiotics in animal production. Of course, it's something we should be proud of. But in many other countries antibiotics are used casually and routinely, not least in animal production. That is where we must stand and show the way, because the high use of antibiotics has led to a situation where it is losing its effect by the bacteria becoming increasingly resistant. We must not end up in a situation where we can no longer treat certain diseases in animals and humans because of mere negligence. Sweden is working in several ways, both nationally and internationally, with the issue, but in order to counteract the development of antibiotic resistance, there is a need for a global consensus and for agreements to be signed on the issue. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, many crimes against animals are committed in our Sweden. At the beginning of the year, we decided in this House that gross animal cruelty would be introduced into the penal code, something the Swedish Democrats have been proposing for ten years. The legislative changes that have been decided have not yet entered into force, but anyone can understand that even if we now tighten the penalties for certain offences against animals, special competence is also needed to deal with all these cases. In order to improve the management of these crimes, we need to establish a special animal welfare code, which brings together all the legal texts relating to animals so that the legislation can be better illustrated. However, we also want the operational work on animal offences to be carried out as legally and effectively as possible. That is why we want to see a national animal protection police with special expertise in this area. Offences against animals occur in various forms. There are those who harm their own or others' pets, but animals are also violated within livestock production. We know that most people are good at taking care of their animals and follow all the laws and regulations we set up to ensure that the animals are as good as possible in our Sweden. But there are also those who falter on animal welfare, because of economic interests, negligence or for purely sadistic reasons. Either way, we have to deal with the problem. Animal welfare controls must be legally secure. It is important that those involved in animal welfare have the relevant competence for the purpose, and personnel involved in animal welfare supervision should have their own experience in animal husbandry. We want to see an investigation on how to improve the control system and at the same time examine the possibility of introducing body cameras or surveillance cameras in livestock farms and slaughterhouses, in order to facilitate and streamline control work. Mr President, I would like to When we talk about animal welfare in this House, unfortunately, we often have to talk about all the horrors that occur against animals. Unfortunately, there are too many points to be touched on. A very topical and urgent subject, which some colleagues have already raised and the other Members will certainly also talk about, is the illegal smuggling of dogs. During the coronapndemine we have seen an increase in demand for pets. With increased demand, criminals have found ways to shoe themselves on people's longing for a dog. But this has a price; it happens at the expense of the dogs. Not infrequently, the smuggled dogs come from puppy factories abroad, where the dogs live under miserable conditions. It is about dogs that are stored in cramped cages, with several dogs in each cage. There have been cases where bitches have had vocal cords cut off to prevent them from barking and exposing the illegal activity. Puppies are often taken far too early from their mothers and are allowed to travel in cramped cages during transport to another country, without walking and even without food and water. The smugglers too often get into Sweden with the dogs, either because they have simply not been stuck in any control or because they have managed to get through with false papers. This can have devastating consequences if dogs, for example, carry rabies, which can also infect people with a fatal outcome. If smuggling fails, you often choose only another route into Sweden, unless the puppies have been killed at the customs office. Customs, of course, discovers some of the puppies that are being smuggled into the country, but far from all. At the same time, it has been increasingly pointed out by customs officials that they find it difficult to get district veterans there because they simply do not have time to come and inspect the puppies and dogs to decide how to handle them. We are therefore in favour of the announcements that we will address to the government that a number of authorities should be given the task of identifying and curbing the organised smuggling of pet animals. It is also a question of us being able to ensure at an early stage that the Customs Agency will continue to have the necessary powers in their work to counter the illegal trade in animals, despite the proposals of the Animal Health Act investigation which could restrict them. Of course, more needs to be done to counter this criminal activity. When the puppies illegally brought into Sweden are to be sold, often at online marketplaces, it can be difficult for a buyer to discern that it is a contraband dog. And if it is discovered, it may be difficult to find out who really is behind the advertisement and is responsible for the sale. Therefore, requirements need to be made for the advertising of dogs so that it can be ensured who is actually the seller, so that when the sale of contraband dogs is detected it can be prosecuted. It has also been reported that veterinarians at Swedish animal clinics who suspect that dogs they treat are contraband dogs feel that they are not able to establish a notification due to confidentiality or due to the EU Data Protection Regulation, GDPR. It is therefore important that we enable veterinarians to report in case of suspicion of illegal introduction of animals and that the government is in favour of an exemption in the GDPR regulation for this purpose. Mr President, I would like to While I am in the veterinary field, I would like to take this opportunity to mention the increase in veterinary costs. Many animal owners feel that veterinary costs are too high. It can be difficult to know whether the high prices for animal care are reasonable, especially in a stressed situation where you need to seek emergency care for your animal. Reference prices would make it easier for those seeking treatment for their animals to compare prices and feel safe with having to pay the right price for the right care. That is why we want information on reference prices for veterinary care to be produced and provided by the authorities. These should also be clearly visible on the price list of each veterinary clinic. Mr President, I would like to I see I've already gone over time, so I'm gonna have to finish up here. However, I must also ask for the approval of reservation 33.
i-MMjwKMAUhJVu9k2J5kXL12	Mr President, I would like to Animal welfare is an important issue. Many of us in the committee are very committed to it, and there is a great deal of consensus on many of these issues in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture. As regards the report we are debating today, one is proud as a centre party when one reads the first page and sees that several of the Center Party's motions are now being approved. They relate, for example, to the possibility for veterinarians to report suspicion of illegal entry and to actions against the organised smuggling of pet animals. Animal welfare issues are important for many different reasons. Above all, we humans have a responsibility for the animals that depend on us, both pets and animals in animal production. Swedish food producers are world leaders in animal health, have restrictive use of antibiotics in animal husbandry and produce food in a climate-smart and environmentally friendly way. However, we see that Swedish farmers cannot always charge for the added value that grazing animals give rise to in the form of open landscapes and enhanced biodiversity. In order to strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish farmers, the regulatory burden in the field of animal welfare should be reduced. There are several aspects to the Animal Welfare Act. Although a new and more modern animal welfare law has now been adopted, there are still challenges that need to be reviewed and improved. It is also a question of dealing with controls and so on. Both farmers and animal welfare inspectors can be exposed and end up in threatening situations, and that is, of course, very unfortunate. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has strict requirements and supervision for animal transport. We're proud of that. However, several cases of unworthy movement of animals within the EU have been revealed. The rules in place in the EU on animal welfare are not respected by all Member States. That is why it is so incredibly important that these controls are carried out and that the EU acquis on animal welfare is complied with. We are tightening up animal welfare legislation, but if it is not followed up, it will be a rather toothless law. It is also a question of improving competition law and the competitiveness of green industries if there is a reasonable level playing field across Europe. EU-wide animal protection needs to be raised to the Swedish level, so that we can all live up to it throughout the European area. This means that we can all trust that food is produced in a dignified way. When it comes to animal transport, we in the Center Party believe that unsafe travel to third countries should be completely prohibited if it is not possible to guarantee safe animal transport. Although animal welfare is much better in Sweden than in the rest of the EU, we know that there are challenges here too and that improvements can be made. The Center Party wants to see more animal welfare programmes, where inter-branch organisations, slaughterhouses, trade chains and producers work together. Mr President, I would like to Many people have, before me in the debate, touched on the problem of the smuggling of pets, especially dogs. This is a crime that has increased during the pandemic. Humanly, it can be understood that those who yearn to buy a dog find it difficult to say no to the little puppy eyes that you meet when you think of taking a puppy home with you. As a private individual, however, one needs to take responsibility and think about how one could be involved in contributing to the illegal trade that is taking place. To make sure that you don't, you can access checklists from Customs and so on. It is a question of ensuring that animals are not subjected to great suffering, as in many cases happens. In addition, the problems linked to rabies that have been raised in the past threaten both animal health and human health in different ways. At the beginning of this week, I had the privilege of visiting a veterinary clinic. In my conversation with the vet Mia, she mentioned that everyone who worked at that animal clinic had thought about vaccinating themselves to protect themselves. They were afraid of suffering from a disease that was not present just a few years ago. It is also a question of raising skills issues. I will not devote my speech to the veterinary shortage, but there are some things that I know all of us in the committee are working on in different ways. The government has set up an investigation. From the opposition parties we highlight the importance of being able to do things even in the short term, without waiting for an investigation to be completed, not least when it comes to the working environment of district scientists. Back to the issue of animal smuggling! It is incredibly important that the knowledge is increased by the relevant staff, for example at the Customs Agency. The authorities also need to ensure that the skills are available at the major border crossings. Cooperation between the Swedish Customs Agency, the Swedish Agriculture Agency, the County Administrative Board and the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Social Insurance Agency needs to be strengthened in order to identify and curb organised smuggling. Like previous speakers who have spoken warmly in favour of the Center Party's proposal, I would like to say that it is important that veterinarians must have more opportunity to report suspicions of illegal entry. Today there are obstacles, such as GDPR, veterinary confidentiality and so on. There is every reason to be a little extra proud today, as we now advocate the approval of these motions by the Center Party. Having said that, Mr President, I would nevertheless like to endorse reservation No 23, which deals with new technology and artificial intelligence. For these tools to become a reality in the future, political decisions that promote them are needed. It is a pity that only five out of eight parties support this reservation, which is that we can make efforts from the political side in different ways to raise the level of innovation. Let me take another example – I see that I have a minute left in my speaking time – and tell you about a visit to the farmer Torbjörn, who uses digital necklaces on his cows to monitor their health development. Since you all know what this is about, I mention rummaging, fertility and periods of oestrus. It is a fantastic technology that has been developed, but there are far more opportunities. It is important to take care of them and make further efforts. Sometimes you need to change regulations. New technical solutions can really change today's way of working. It is important for us on the political side to see what efforts may need to be made.
i-W8vmqFGE8RPeFtGCvjDoB9	Mr President, I would like to We are here for our annual debate on animal welfare issues. This is a report that is particularly important because it so clearly affects individuals who have no voice to make themselves heard with. Instead, it is left to us to speak for them and to be wise enough to make their welfare and woe a priority. In recent years, the pandemic has been with us in everything we have done, as in this committee too. This also applies to issues relating to animal welfare and, perhaps, above all, issues relating to the continued existence or non-being of mink farms. During the pandemic, the corona infection spread among the Danish mink farms. It eventually resulted in a decision to put down all minks and in a historical shutdown. In Sweden, which has a considerably smaller herd than Denmark had then, the infection was also seen spreading between the mink farms. At first, it was uncertain whether there would be a stop in Sweden as well. Finally we landed in a middle way: to keep the crew that existed but not let there be any new breeding in 2021. It was to some extent a profit, but then it has been ruined by the fact that the mink farm is now again allowed and is running in Sweden. The disadvantage of this procedure is also that Sweden has now paid compensation to maintain an activity that very few really want to see continue. Instead, we would have paid compensation for ending once and for all the mink farming and minks'lives in cages. Instead, the government's line has been to starve out mink farmers, which is also partly successful with some now having to close down. The government believes that the market solves the problem, something one can expect from a bourgeois government, but perhaps not in the same way from a Social Democratic one. No matter how bad I feel about keeping animals in cages, it is important that those who today earn their living from this activity are offered a sensible way out. Several countries have decided to stop domestic fur farming. Last time, this March, it was Ireland. In the past, for example, Norway and a further 15 countries around Europe have done so. Poland is also on the way to a phasing-out decision. Should Sweden ultimately remain as a single country in Europe that allows this? I really do not think that would be a good way forward. Other animals that we still keep in cages like this are chickens. The new Animal Welfare Act strengthens the right for animals to move freely and perform behaviours that are important for their welfare. Chickens in cages – in cages. Only there should we understand that this is a system that cannot be maintained, decorated cages or not. There's an animal in a cage, and there's nothing natural about it. Sweden should set an end date for when the cages should be away from the Swedish egg industry. It provides a clear guideline for those who continue to carry out this type of activity and any opportunity for them to change. An absolute majority of the Swedish people also want to see this development, so let us do it. Taking into account the fact that many farms have already moved to free-range systems, the phasing-out of the last cages should be possible in the coming years. The problems of the chicken industry in itself are also widespread, as several revelations have shown in recent years. From pictures from animal halls with thousands of chickens crammed on narrow chipboarded floor surfaces, it is understood that the words are never allowed to be put in the same sentence. Sweden also has a unique requirement for dairy cows to be kept out on pasture during summer. We see this especially this time of year with cow release that you can visit. This is also a factor that is important for Swedish consumers when choosing products in the dairy counter. If it is to be an argument for more animal welfare, I do not know, but it is still an important aspect. The debate has gone in the direction that loose operation indoors can be replacement enough, while research shows that grazing for dairy cows has positive effects on cows' health, and it is also strong natural behaviour. The Left Party shares the view that the situation of our dairy farmers is acute and calls for action. We have therefore also proposed to increase support for pasture land. We believe that weakened animal welfare can never be a sustainable strategy for Swedish agriculture and our food production. Another unsustainable aspect of livestock farming for consumption is the transport of animals. In Sweden, these transports may not exceed eight hours except in the case of a series of exceptions which allow the transports to be as long as twelve hours. Reducing transport time is one of the most important factors in reducing the number of animals that die during transport. Sweden needs to be a strong voice in the EU in order to reduce transport so that it does not exceed four hours within the EU and also develop a national strategy to reduce overall the amount of animal transport. One of the proposals the Left Party has made is to support farm slaughterhouses as well. Animal transport often has a goal, and that is precisely the slaughterhouse. The methods used in slaughterhouses have been the subject of debate over the years. When it comes to carbon dioxide anaesthetic, we know that it causes severe discomfort to pigs. It has been known for 20 years for research, and it really does not have to go on. A first step to get away from this painful stunning method is to set an end year and a date for when the carbon dioxide anaesthetic should be away from the Swedish slaughterhouses. A second step is to urgently add resources to develop alternative stunning methods. As long as the CO2 anaesthetic is permitted and no end date is set, there is no incentive to move away from the relatively cheap anaesthetic with carbon dioxide. It is sad that this time the committee stumbles on the goal line and does not get an announcement to invest further in this research. Mr President, I would like to There has been a lot of talk about dogs, and I intend to do the same. After all, they are ultimately man's best friend. As has been said, dog smuggling is something that has been highlighted during the pandemic, and it is the demand that has been pushing. During the first half of 2021 customs in southern Sweden had found 108 dogs. In 2015, the trade in dogs and also cats in 12 EU Member States was assessed as covering 61 million dogs and 67 million cats. That's horrible! They do not just go to Sweden; it is an EU-wide problem, and the large-scale rearing in puppy factories is just as terrible as we have already heard described by many here. The Customs Agency has mentioned a number of measures that would be needed, such as increased coordination between the Customs Agency and other relevant authorities, but also sharper and tougher legislation and penalties for smuggling. Today, the smuggling of a puppy holds about the same penalty value as a bottle of vodka smuggled in. It's not proportionate. The Left Party believes that there is a need for a clear action plan to address the problem that connects the different parts of society and, for example, remove unnecessary problems such as the fact that authorities cannot share information with each other. The Left Party therefore particularly welcomes the three announcements that now come with total agreement from the committee. That we have a situation with an increased smuggling of dogs but also other animals while we have a veterinary corps that in part feels that they cannot report suspicion of animal smuggling is not sustainable, and it is great that we can now get a clear mission to the government to fix this. In the same way, the Government needs to ensure that the Swedish Customs Agency can continue to stop vehicles in order to search for animals in connection with the work on the Animal Health Investigation's proposal now continuing. Illegal trade in animals is also often strongly associated with organised crime. It also poses a risk of widespread spread of infection among animals and humans, while often inflicting great suffering on the animal. Therefore, the work against animal smuggling must be fundamentally curbed, and it is good that the relevant authorities are now given a mandate to work together to achieve this. In the end, however, this is an international problem and therefore there needs to be cooperation within the EU. The Left Party would have liked to see common requirements for identity marking in the EU and a register linking the countries in order to keep better track of borders. Finally, speaking of international cooperation, I would like to highlight the need for Sweden to work towards the ban on tail hilling that exists within the EU. It is forbidden to hive the tail of animals, but yet it continues throughout Europe. When animal welfare legislation is in place, it also needs to be complied with. The fact that the legislation has been in place for several years while compliance is so low is not sustainable in animal law, and it is important that Sweden push for greater compliance within the EU. With that, Mr President, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 14 and the joint reservation 30.
i-58bcfLLKswzvA7AdjWXb9R	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating animal welfare in this House, and it is always as inspiring to listen to my colleagues. We haven't heard all of them yet, but I know it'll be just as good. There is a lot of knowledge here, and I think everyone who listens will notice that there are many people involved, just as my colleague Ulrika Heie spoke about. I'm in favour of reservation 19, so I've said so. It is important that we have strong and resolute animal welfare in Sweden. As a result, we now have a minimal use of antibiotics in livestock farming. If we look around the EU, we actually use the least antibiotics. If we look at Europe, Iceland and Norway use less. It is above all our Swedish farmers who should have the credit for this. Sometimes you hear politicians say it's about politics. But it is the farmers themselves, so much thanks to all the farmers who may listen to this! It is thanks to your work and your decisions to take a strong stance on, for example, animal stalls and pig boxes that we are currently using so little antibiotics. Many of us know that the high level of antibiotic use is one of the biggest concerns around the world. We know that bacteria become resistant, and it no longer works to cure certain diseases with penicillin. Of course, this is very serious. If we look at other countries, Sweden is really a light in the tunnel. We in the committee were at the beginning of the last parliamentary term in Paris and talked about this. Then I know they had questions for us. How do you do in Sweden? So many countries are starting to look at this, and we think that is very good. But it's going too slow. We wish the EU to push this further. As a previous speaker said, this is also important for the competitiveness of our farmers. Because if we have such laws, it is clear that other European countries must also comply. It is therefore very important that the government push this forward. But of course it is important that we also do so from our friends and colleagues in the European Union. Mr President, I would like to There has been a lot of talk about contraband dogs, and I would also like to mention it. Someone might ask, ‘ Why? Because it's a big worry. Speakers before me have talked about that it is a problem throughout Europe, but there are many such dogs coming to Sweden as well. Many of us have seen the terrible pictures of dogs that are clenched and how badly you treat the dogs. Unfortunately, there is a large market for these dogs in our country. Although we can think that many have understood that you should not buy dogs in this way, unfortunately they do anyway. Everyone knows that if there is money to be earned, there is also a market, and automatically there will be criminal gangs to do this. If you talk to customs and the police, you also hear how it works with puppy factories to bring dogs into our country. We don't know exactly how many people are coming here, but there's a lot of people coming here. And those that customs take are just the top of the big iceberg. For if someone gets caught today, that person is often sent home. That person then tries to get into Sweden in another place. This is of course very bad, and unfortunately it continues. We also know that there is a very high risk of these dogs carrying diseases. That is why we are really appealing for something of what has been proposed. That is why it is so much fun that there is a majority in committee. There are also several announcements on this issue. These include, for example, the possibilities for veterinarians to report suspicion of illegal entry, the possibilities for the Swedish Customs to stop vehicles to search for dogs – which I think is very good that we can find – and measures against organised smuggling of pet dogs. This is very good, Mr President. Now it is only up to the government and the Social Democrats to make proposals in this regard. In the end, it is the Social Democrats who have the power of government. We believe on the Christian Democrats' side that it would of course be easy to quickly come up with proposals put on the table here. Often, if only the will exists, you can do something. You can also look at other proposals from other countries, from the UK and from different EU countries. Of course, it is important that we work together with our European friends here too. Mr President, I would like to Like the LRF, we Christian Democrats also want to review the grazing requirement. There's no one who can believe-- at least I'm thinking-- that the cows have it exactly the same way as in the 80's. Many with me have grown up with Emil in Lönneberga. Many have at least seen on film how Emil goes with his cow down to the barn. It's very cozy in every way. But it was then, but we're alive now. And the stables look completely different now. We therefore think it is very relevant, as the LRF says, to actually review this and that the government is urgently working on the issue.
i-5RNK56SRSVgGQ7cpLgKgry	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 40. Of course, we support all our reservations, but for time winning, I do not agree with the other reservations. As far as animal welfare is concerned, we must highlight all those who have animals and care for their animals. The task of politics is to steer things up and to get to grips with problems when we put it: This is not how we can have it! But we also have it very well because many take care of and take care of their animals – small animals or animals in agriculture. For those of you who are owners of animals and do an amazing job: Thank you very much! I would like to highlight two of the issues that are important today. This is something on which we agree in committee and something on which we do not agree in committee. I want to start with dog smuggling, which is very problematic in so many ways. It leads to great suffering for the animals that are smuggled in disgusting ways. It also leads to problems and risks of rabies, parasites and other infections spreading in the country by the dogs. Moreover, smuggling involves an economic inflow into serious organised crime which is responsible for puppy factories and smuggling operations. These criminals are financed by suffering animals. The Swedish Customs is stopping more and more contraband dogs on the border with Sweden, and that is good. During last year's first six months, approximately 260 dogs were stopped. 280 dogs were stopped throughout the year before. So we see a doubling, if not more, of these dogs. Both the Swedish Customs and the Swedish Agriculture Agency are now warning that the proposal for a new animal health law can make smuggling easier. The new law can prevent vehicles from being stopped in order to search for dogs smuggled into the country. Effective legislation in this regard is crucial to halting this serious organised crime in order to prevent the suffering of individual animals and to maintain the protection of animals from the infection here in Sweden. There are therefore very serious reasons for this. For these reasons, we believe that Swedish animal health legislation needs to combat dog smuggling. Swedish law must not fatten organised crime, suffering for animals and dangerous infection. That is unacceptable. It is therefore important that the Government now continues to work on the preparation of the proposals of the Animal Health Investigation. It must be ensured that the Customs Service continues to have the necessary powers in this respect. Much of this is something on which we agree, which we welcome in the Liberals. It is odd that we should not be able to reach agreement in committee. I wonder if everyone who speaks warmly about animals and animal welfare has visited a mink farm and seen how the animals in these cages live. I find it difficult to understand how one cannot then support the motions that have been raised that mink farming should stop. The Swedish fur industry has declined sharply. From 1988 to 2011, the number of mink farms in Sweden decreased by 90 per cent. After that, half more have disappeared. Today there are about 25 mink farms left. Maybe it doesn't seem very much. But there are still a few hundred thousand minks left in Sweden. All breeding of fox for the fur has ceased. Animal welfare requirements for mink farming have been gradually tightened, which is a good thing. But Sweden is not the most ambitious country in Europe. Criticism from this animal welfare perspective has continued. Among other things, minks, which are water-loving and mobile animals, do not vent their own natural behaviour. The cages are 35 x 80 centimetres in size and 45 centimetres in height. They're not big for an animal that's used to living by water. How can you think it's okay with these cages, which you do if you're not behind the exercise? Repeatedly, it is alerted that minks that are stressed develop stereotyped behaviors. It is claimed that they are bred to live in cages. There's no proof of that. Instead, they walk back and forth, back and forth in this cage. What exactly is a mink? To clarify, it is a water animal that swims, dives and hunts. Does it do it in the cage? No. There it is just the opposite, and they live for about six months in these bars. There are about 25 farms left. A number of countries in Europe have decommissioned the mink industry in recent years. This has been done either through stricter animal welfare rules which have made farming economically unprofitable or through regular bans. Which way is best to go? The Coronapandemin made the Swedish Board of Agriculture decide on a total ban on the rearing of minks in Sweden throughout 2021, given the risk of infection spreading. The Mink's lungs are physiologically similar to yours and mine; that's why raccoon animals are used in research on precisely respiratory viruses. So there is an imminent risk of demining not only for further viruses but that viruses mutate among them. Scientists claim that a mink farm can become a genetic plant for viruses. The fact that not all parties support this is a mystery. This year breeding is allowed again, Mr President, after 2021. However, no new mink farms must be built, and they are becoming smaller and less profitable. The Swedish Board of Agriculture wants more control and a new investigation of the risk of infection. It becomes clear here that the mink farm is still a risk business, so why – why – does the Riksdag not prohibit this today? Thus, during 2021 the mink industry has been temporarily shut down, and the industry now deserves to know what it will be like in the future. You want to bet on this or not? This is where it's decided. We Liberals want to see decommissioning. It can take place either in the same way as the dismantling of fox farms, i.e. through a clearly strengthened animal welfare requirement, or through a regular ban. In both cases, there should of course be a transition period of a number of years. Man has always kept animals – for the sake of food, for the sake of wool, for the sake of skin – but with this comes a responsibility for the welfare of animals. It is problematic that today's mink farming is all about aesthetics. The breeding is about expensive outerwear. To take a stand in favour of phasing out mink farms is not about being against animal husbandry, but about animal welfare. The animals should be free from stress, and they should be allowed to exercise their natural behaviour. To take a stand for this means taking a stand in order for mink farms to have to be dismantled, and that should be the case for those who run the mink farms themselves – especially during the pandemic. This is not about activists or extremists releasing minks and committing criminal acts; it is not for them. It's not for the fur either. It's for the animal. It's for the mink.
i-3n17ahkRMTLfNrrFn1L5NJ	Mr President, I would like to In the committee's report, I read that the committee is proposing five announcements to the government in response to the motion for a resolution on animal welfare. It concerns: The possibility for veterinarians to report suspicion of illegal entry The Swedish Customs' ability to stop vehicles to search for dogs Action against the organised smuggling of pet animals
i-NoYjThMc4jto1iFP8n9iM8	I am very grateful that these announcements are now being made. When it comes to dog smuggling, there has been a lot of talk and very little workshop so far, and there are many different things to do there. I am therefore grateful that this journey is starting to take off now. Putting the whole responsibility on the buyer of dogs does not work, nor do we do in the case of the sale of contraband of other kinds. Since dog smuggling is not permitted, we politicians must ensure that loopholes are closed, that laws need to be improved, that penalties are tightened and that measures are taken so that those who have the task of ensuring that the laws are complied with have sufficient resources to do just that. Here it is about Tullverket, the Swedish Board of Agriculture and the county administrative boards. Mr President, I would like to We in our party aroused a motion on the basis of our animal policy programme, which we worked forward last year. It's a solid program. If what it says were implemented in its entirety, yes, then we would go very far in terms of a better reality for animals – and in the same breath also better for man. We have a good animal welfare law in Sweden, but as has been said several times before, it will not be better for the animals as long as we do not fully implement it. Animals have their own value regardless of the benefit they bring to humans, as is also stated in the preparatory work for the Swedish Animal Welfare Act. Good animal husbandry and welfare are not only about avoiding suffering in the form of fear, pain, disease, but also about giving animals the opportunity for positive experiences and one for their species as full and natural life as possible. One question to ask is whether it is a full and natural life for a chicken to sit her whole life in a cage so small that she cannot even shed her wings. Or is it a full and natural life for a predator like mink to live his whole life in a steel wire cage and never have to slide into the water to fish? I think we know the answer to those questions really. At the same time, the issue of animal welfare is broader than the welfare of the individual animal. We are seeing all over the world the effects of animals being exploited on the basis of short-term economic interests. It is most obvious in the field of antibiotics, where, globally, more antibiotics are still used for healthy animals than for sick people. Antibiotics in a large part of the world's animal husbandry are a routine means of intervention, often used to camouflage poor animal husbandry. An improved regulatory framework to address this problem in the EU has just been introduced, but there is no global regulatory framework to limit the abuse of antibiotics seen in many countries. It is very important that we actively work for it from Sweden's side. It is still possible to make short-term profits by routinely administering antibiotics to animals, which means that the misuse of antibiotics will continue. Therefore, economic instruments must be designed in a way that benefits livestock farmers who invest in improved animal conditions, strengthen their health and thus minimise the use of antibiotics. Swedish animal keepers are in general already there – Swedish animal husbandry uses the least antibiotics throughout the EU – but we as politicians need to take responsibility for responsible animal husbandry also carrying out on the market. Meat from livestock farming where antibiotics are overused contributes to one of mankind's most serious health problems in the future, namely antibiotic resistance, and it must simply be removed from the market. Mr President, I would like to Animal welfare and welfare need to be strengthened worldwide, whether it be pet animals, food industry animals or experimental animals. Several countries, including Sweden, have supported the adoption of a global UN declaration on animal welfare. Sweden should also promote the development of binding minimum rules on animal welfare within the WTO. Animal welfare requirements must enter into trade agreements. We must act on the knowledge we have and take the consequences of it. The Green Party believes that the need for a global agreement to stop the degeneracy that threatens both animal welfare and human health has never been greater than it is now. There will be more pandemics, and the more we work to create a better animal welfare, the fewer pandemics. That is how I think we could sum up the knowledge that exists today. I would like to conclude my speech with a brief consideration. Innumerable times I have – both as a young person and also well up in my early years – heard expressions such as, "Emotional Dravel" and "Animals can't talk" and that I'm not going to disneyficate animals. This has been said when I have told you about the animals I share my everyday life with – what they do, how they feel and so on. I have since studied ethology and animal communication at Linköping University, and I know that a horse is a horse, a human is a human being and a fish is a fish. All species have different needs. Many have similar emotional life. Several are monogamous, live in lifelong relationships, court each other, build nests and raise their offspring. There are many similarities, but there are also differences. A horse walking outside doesn't need a blanket just because I'm cold when I go out. And mice cannot sew dresses and wooden needles, but they can feel and certainly also communicate with other mice, as we can communicate with other people. Most of what I said when I was young has now been researched by inventive scientists managed to lead in evidence. So the more we learn about animals, the wiser they become — right? No, it's not really like that. That we did not manage to lead this in evidence until now has nothing to do with the animals, that the animals did not feel then or that they could not communicate then. It has to do with the fact that we humans had not been able to figure out how they feel, how they feel, how they think, and how they communicate. That's very important for us to remember. It's usually about ourselves and our own shortcomings. I would like to conclude by saying that the animal welfare rules that exist are justified by the need for them, either through proven research findings or through practical experience. Today, too, we know much more about how the animals feel and feel – knowledge that we have chosen not to handle. Although we may be among the best in the world on animal welfare, it does not mean that we are good enough. I would like to thank the members of both the Left Party and the Liberals for their excellent contributions to the debate. And I want to say that I support all our reservations, but for the gain of time, I only ask for reservation 15.
i-TBjnpk991kr8Ui44qwPdiu	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates take their starting point in each individual person and his right to freedom and ability to shape his own life. We believe in each person's power to influence his situation and help others. And we believe that the outcomes will be at their best when people are given their own power over their lives. That principle is guiding for the Moderates. Aid is an important tool, and Sweden, as a rich country, will take responsibility and do what Sweden can to reduce poverty and oppression in the world. But it is important to stress that Swedish contribution to a better world is much greater than Swedish development policy. Swedish companies and up-to-date companies contribute with new technical solutions in healthcare and education and create jobs and growth for people in countries that are traditionally recipients of Swedish aid. Swedish companies contribute with technical solutions and new technologies in, for example, sustainable transport, something that probably does much more for the achievement of Agenda 2030 than an aid project can ever do. In fact, international aid has little impact on economic growth, as research also points out. It is also clear that it is economic growth, trade agreements, tariff elimination and an improved business environment that best creates the conditions for achieving the objectives of aid policy. These are measures which are therefore not classified as aid activities. A moderate development policy will therefore always have the objective of moving from aid to trade and an explicit objective that traditional development aid should be characterised by beneficiary countries standing on their own feet. We see that there is a need for a clear objective that one day aid will not be needed. Some choose to interpret this objective as a negative one. I see it as a principle of honesty. 193 countries have jointly agreed on the objectives of the 2030 Agenda and committed themselves to working together and individually to achieve them. If the aim is now to actually achieve the global sustainability objectives, which I very much hope everyone will sign up to, it must also mean that traditional development aid, as we know it today, has an end. So it is not an unrealistic picture of the end of all the world's problems, but of the irreparable belief that countries' own viability can be strengthened. But then you also have to be honest and principled at that goal. Furthermore, it is important to note that there are extensive activities to help people in need and oppression, in addition to the aid efforts made and financed through the tax bill. One example is Amnesty International, which is doing a great and important work for human rights, whose activities are based entirely on membership fees and gifts. Another is Doctors Without Borders, who carry out extensive humanitarian work, almost exclusively with their own resources. Many companies also choose to invest large amounts of money in development work in the areas where they operate. There we have, for example, H & M, who runs the H & M Foundation. The idea of stewardship – that we care about each other, want to take care of each other and leave us a better place than the one we've been given – is central to the Moderates. Our faith in people is also about our willingness to do good and help one another. It is positive that people and companies want to contribute to a better world. This should also be facilitated, for example, by reducing taxes and modernising non-profit rules. Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 1. Mr President, I would like to Swedish aid today amounts to 1% of the total. It is an objective set by the United Nations in the 1960s, which was then revised to 0.7% of GDP. Yet Sweden stands at 1 percent. The Moderates want to make a move here. In addition to the absurdity that Sweden spends more on aid than Canada, the expenditure target has proved to be a brake for important projects that could have made a big difference but which have been removed because they were too cost-effective. Cost-effectiveness should never be seen as an obstacle. It is a dishonest and irresponsible way of dealing with taxpayers' money. We want to see a four-year financial framework so that aid can be given more long-term and effective priority, just as we do with other areas of expenditure that require a long-term perspective. We need to get away from this pay-out press. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has increased needs at home. Then the aid line must also be able to be set against other areas of expenditure in the budget. The fact that a country needs to re-prioritise resources is nothing strange but something that is expected when situations change. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to say a few words about Russia and Ukraine. There is no doubt that Putin's illegal and senseless war has already reaped many innocent lives. Many millions are on the run, and people are executed on the streets. Sometimes I have a hard time grasping what's actually happening. I and many with me did not think, perhaps something naive, that our generation would experience this. An invasion of a democratic country in Europe is part of the history books. After the Berlin Wall was demolished, we entered into a belief that countries became peaceful and people kind. Now it's obvious we've been blind. February 24, 2022, will forever be the day when the postwar period ended. The formal stage that we are now going through will determine how the world development of the next decades will take place. The choices we make now and the decisions we make will have consequences for many generations. Sweden will support Ukraine in all the ways we can. But, Mr President, aid is a foreign policy tool. That's why it's supposed to be used like that. The Moderates believe that it is right and proper that the aid that is managed and financed by the Swedish State is not only good for the recipients but also in Swedish interest. It should therefore be more focused on countries that are strategically important for Sweden and thematic areas where Sweden has clear interests. This, we believe, should apply entirely regardless of whether or not it is classified under international regulations as aid. One example of an effort that should be seen by most as aid in Swedish interests is to support the democracy movement in Russia. Russia, however, is not a country where OECD-DAC measures can be classified as aid. We want Sweden to be free to do what Sweden itself thinks is good, right and right, regardless of whether or not it is classified as aid according to the OECD. It is clear to us that Russia's democrats need all the help they can get. Today, there is a hard fight for democracy, and then Sweden must not back down with reference to international regulations. In all situations, Sweden must be able to stand up for democracy and human rights.
i-Eqm8VM73XqXug6siS3Xnzg	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to endorse our reservation 16, which deals with the importance of ensuring that aid does not favour corruption and thus undermines part of its main objective, namely to promote the development of the rule of law in the countries receiving Swedish aid. Much that we are debating in these times concerns the situation in Ukraine. This also applies to this aid debate. Ukraine is an internationally recognised state and a member of the UN. Russia's attack is therefore a violation of the UN Charter and of international law. The UN General Assembly voted on a resolution against Russia's aggression at the turn of February/March. 141 out of 193 Member States supported the resolution, which shows that the Russian regime is wrong in claiming that resistance to the invasion would come only from Western Europe and the United States. Much more has the UN been unable to do because Russia is a member of the Security Council and has been able to stop the issue there. The consequences of the Ukraine crisis will be great for Sweden's aid. If the Russian regime itself does not replace everything it has destroyed, Ukraine will need the help of the peoples of Europe to put Ukraine back on its feet. The country has been destroyed on a scale that we in Europe have not seen since the Second World War. Ukraine's former Minister of Finance, Natalie Jaresko, estimated the other day that the cost of reconstruction could be a trillion euros. That's 10,000 billion dollars. According to Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde, Sweden has not yet made any commitments. On the other hand, President Zelenskyj has proposed that Sweden help rebuild one of the most ruined cities, the city of Mykola ïv, which lies between Crimea and Odessa. We assume that all promises made by the Swedish side will be given in as broad a political agreement as possible. To these enormous sums of reconstruction comes the cost of all refugees who have left Ukraine. The Swedish Immigration Service's forecast for Sweden is currently only 80 000 people by the end of the year, but uncertainty is on the other hand several hundred per cent. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats are, as you know, critical of Sweden's immigration policy for many years. We believe that immigration has been far greater than Sweden has been able to assimilate in its population. The consequences have been very clear, not least in the riots that have hit Sweden in recent weeks. We want a policy to ensure that people remain, as far as possible, in their neighbourhoods and be able to return when the current crisis has eased. However, in the case of Ukraine it is different. The neighbourhood is Europe, and we are in the neighbourhood. Although we are not Ukraine's closest geographical or cultural neighbour, this is our Europe, and we must accept a reasonable proportion of the refugees. In this context, it is worth noting that Poland, which has had so much to endure in the past for its critical attitude to the EU's immigration policy, is now, in fact, being roused in Europe for its willingness to help a neighbouring country. The EU applies a special framework for refugees from Ukraine: the mass refugee directive. For our reception to work well this time, we must follow it. It clearly states that the fugitives should have a valid passport or ID. As you know, the figure that comes to Sweden as refugees without passport or ID is usually about 80%. We urge the government to keep this in order, so that Sweden does not end up in a situation like 2015, when disproportionately many came to Sweden because Sweden did not make sufficient demands for identification. This should not be a problem in the case of Ukraine. Mr President, I would like to In the spring budget, the government allocates 9.8 billion to the reception of refugees from Ukraine. The government intends, in accordance with the OECD guidelines, to take a large part of this money from the aid budget. We in the Swedish Democrats support this – not as a general principle, but in the present case Ukraine. The amount should be used to help refugees from Ukraine but also to support Ukraine's defence and its reconstruction. Perhaps the tragic events in Ukraine can bring the good news that we are reviewing our aid policy. An essential part of aid should be to provide emergency aid in cases such as war or earthquakes, often through UN organisations such as the World Food Programme or the UNHCR. We note that the government does not intend to reduce this part of the aid – that is, emergency aid – although money is now being redeployed to Ukraine. We'll make the same assessment there as the government. In addition to support via the UN, and sometimes via the EU, Sweden can choose to enter into closer cooperation with individual aid countries. Beneficiaries of such Swedish aid should clearly demonstrate that they respect the principles of the rule of law and the rights of women and various minorities, including the rights and security of Christians. In the case of countries where we have no reason to trust the government on such important issues, aid should be limited to basic humanitarian aid, mainly through the UN. As far as democracy is concerned, the main means of exerting pressure should be to demand that the law govern – not the despots. It does not matter if a country pretends to be democratic if its leaders can order opposition leaders to be sentenced to prison for arbitrary crimes and to receive arbitrarily elected sentences. I think you understand which countries in our neighbourhood fit that description. The rule of law is a prerequisite for democracy to exist in reality. Mr President, I would like to Long before Sweden was a democracy, we in Sweden were proud to be a rule of law. In Fänrik Ståls saganer, Johan Ludvig Runeberg describes how Savolax and Karelian County Governor Wibelius refuse to allow the Russian commander to use the Swedish soldiers' wives as hostages for their husbands to lay down their weapons and go home again. Wibelius must have put his hand on Svea's law and stated that the law can punish a person who commits crime but not his loved one and his wife. The Russian commander von Buxhoevden fell to little and cancelled the action; this should be a historical fact. Neither Russia nor Sweden were democracies in 1809. The difference was that in Sweden the law applied to the rulers; that was not the case in Russia. My point is – perhaps somewhat far-fetched – that if we want to promote democracy, we must first and foremost demand equality before the law. We should also demand this from those who receive Swedish aid. Law must take precedence over power. Where these conditions are not met, we in Sweden should be very restrictive with bilateral aid, and we should make great demands on countries with which we are entering into closer cooperation. Lessons can also be learned from Afghanistan. Sweden's largest recipient has been Afghanistan for many years. For 20 years, the country received as much as 14 billion of Swedish taxpayers' money. Several analyses have subsequently indicated that aid made the former regime so corrupt that the population's loss of confidence in the facilitated return of the Taliban. We spent 20 billion but contributed to a disaster. In Sweden we must learn from this. There must not be recipient countries where Swedish aid actually threatens stability by fertilising corruption. Mr President, I would like to There is no unlimited tax money. We have many, and more and more, deprived areas here at home – roads, railways, law enforcement, pensions, health care and care are just a few. Sweden will continue to be part of international development cooperation, but we do not have to run ahead in the way we have been doing for many years. Our ability to influence the generosity of other donor countries may actually increase if we are in a cluster together with other donor countries. Sweden's aid must be effective. We should contribute to fewer international organisations and funds. We should divide recipient countries between donor countries, so that each donor country's skills are exploited as well as possible. For example, among Swedish specialities, there is much talk about planting more trees to prevent desertification, protecting groundwater and storing carbon dioxide. Here Sweden has a great deal of expertise. Similarly, large parts of the world need fossil-free electricity, and even there we have great competence. More of the aid needs to go to creating infrastructure such as access to electricity and roads if poor countries are to become more than just suppliers of simple raw materials that other countries can process and make money from. That is why we want more effective aid. We are in favour of all our reservations, but, as I said, for time-winning, I am only in favour of reservation 16.
i-LSQRSNovKfDwmxbEbNsMWh	Mr President, I would like to I do not know how to describe in eight minutes the needs of the world right now and all that Sweden needs to do together with like-minded countries, friends, allies and the rest of the free world in order to meet these needs. But we'll have to give it a try. That is exactly what we are debating today. In eight minutes, I and my colleagues will be able to describe how the Swedish contribution to development policy and sustainable development in the world can be strengthened. Like many others, I feel it is necessary to start with Russia's war of aggression in Ukraine and the effects of the immoral and illegal attack, for they are great. I am very proud of the contribution and assistance that Sweden has been able to make to the people of Ukraine, financially, humanitarianly and also militarily. But it's important that we don't think we're done now. Every day we have to ask ourselves how we can support more: how can we alleviate the need, and how can we strengthen those who are currently fighting for their freedom and for the ideals that we in Sweden and the whole of free Europe hold highest? I also believe that it is our responsibility to say to those who are fighting that the day of victory is won and they can lay down their weapons and return to your ordinary lives, we shall also be there to help them rebuild and build a better Ukraine – a Ukraine that takes its rightful place among Europe's free countries on the same terms as the rest of our continent. The need for a new Marshall Plan has been mentioned in this House by center parties, as well as by leading German politicians, for example. I want to reiterate my conviction that this is exactly what we need to see. We need a situation in which we agree together to support the Ukrainian people in concert and in cooperation to rebuild their country. But, Mr President, it is not the case that the needs of the Ukrainian people remain. As we look out over the world, we see, unfortunately, that the needs are greater than for a very long time. The war is contributing to a startling food crisis at a time when we already have millions of people living on the starvation line, not least on the Horn of Africa. It affects a world that is already faltering after the coronapandemy and its consequences, where hundreds of millions of people risk slipping back into poverty because the economy has stood still, because trade has stopped and because it has not been able to do what I believe is the simple desire of most people: to contribute every day to building a better life for themselves, their family and their local community. Mr President, I would like to It is important that we keep an eye on post-pandemic reconstruction in the same way that we must focus on post-war reconstruction. Nor is it the only conflict that is ravaging the world right now. From Afghanistan to Yemen and the Horn of Africa, people live with war, oppression and abuse. Needs are greater than in a very long time. I don't think it's news that I really don't like just talking about the extent of Swedish aid. I do not think that the 1% target is something that deserves to be debated in all eternity, but what matters is what we do with the money. Unfortunately, however, we are a situation in which we cannot help talking about this, because we have parties in the Swedish Parliament who want to cut back heavily on aid while the world's needs are greater than for a very long time. Unfortunately, we also have a government that, despite the fact that the needs are greater than in the record year for settlements, in 2015, indicates that it wants to reduce Swedish aid by up to a fifth and use the money for settlements. This is not unlawful – it is fully permitted under Dac's regulations – but one might wonder if it is not extremely unwise at this point. I would appeal to those who are listening to this debate: consider whether it is reasonable for us to remove a fifth of Sweden's financial contribution to peace, freedom and stability in the world in a situation where the need for this support is greater than for a very long time! Keep those bills back! I know that politics are priorities, but that does not always mean that we have to make the toughest priorities and that it is they who have the greatest needs to pay when resources are needed in many places. I believe that we can also support the Ukrainian people and those who are fleeing without making historically large bills on aid. Having said that, I would like to take the few minutes I have to also describe what the Center Party wants the Swedish development policy to be. And note that I am not just saying that aid policy is being implemented. Pure humanitarian aid is an important element, but it is also about the means we set aside to contribute, together with industry, civil society and private forces, to sustainable development. It is much larger than 1 percent, and if we use it wisely it could be many times larger than 1 percent of Sweden's bni. Look at what we manage to do with the warranty business! Look at what we manage to do in climate projects from the Swedish side when we hook arms with others! There we multiply every aid crown we put in, and we get development results – something that actually creates better societies and better lives for those with whom we interact. This, Mr President, is exactly what Swedish aid and development policy should be. From the Center Party we want to focus on the areas where we can make the most difference. It won't always be easy. As I said, the needs are great and wide. But we must be able to say what we are contributing most and what it is that no one else is willing to mention. This is something we could do, for example, by developing feminist foreign policy. Where do we have the projects where we contribute most to greater equality and to giving women more power and better living conditions? We should focus more on democracy and the rule of law, because we know that these two things go hand in hand. We also know that they are a prerequisite for greater equality, for sustainable growth and for building sustainable societies socially, economically and ecologically. We also need to focus on how we actually lift people out of poverty. Right now we are seeing a huge trend of negative poverty development. We must return to the pre-pandemic situation where free trade and increased economic freedom helped lift people out of poverty simply because they built better lives. We must do everything we can to reinforce the positive trend in the same way that we need to do with the track of democracy. We see an authoritarian trend in the world that is also linked to Russia's war in Ukraine, with Russia's aggressive foreign policy and with China's increased and usually negative influence in the world. There, Sweden must be able to hook arms with other free countries in order to bring about a new wave of democratisation. We also want to strengthen the focus on bilateral aid. All too often, we have gradually strengthened multilateral aid. We've let someone else take care of our money instead of doing it themselves. There's a lot more I'd like to say. However, I would like to make two points concerning this particular report before I conclude. The first is aid in Afghanistan. We believe that this should obviously be part of the broad review of Sweden's Afghanistan policy. It concerns both the military peace-keeping operation and the aid and all the other contacts we have had with Afghanistan. It is a whole that is connected, and they must be evaluated jointly. The second is that I very briefly support our reservation 10 under paragraph 2, which relates precisely to the improvements, efficiency improvements and increases in ambition that we want to see in Swedish development policy.
i-JWEMDSuVqWwWq2d285ogjX	Mr President, I would like to I'm in favour of reservation number 11. Although aid alone is not enough to bring about a just world in which all people are given human rights, aid is extremely important in order to achieve the objectives of Agenda 2030. It is also our duty as a country that has partly built its wealth at the expense of other countries to support the development of low and middle-income countries towards more just and prosperous countries such as Sweden. Even before the pandemic we saw how countries began to move in an increasingly conservative, patriarchal and authoritarian direction and how people got increasingly difficult to have their human rights met. After a period of improvement in the world, the number of poor and hungry began to increase as well as the number of refugees with everything that a life on the run means in the form of reduced income, poor health, fewer children in education and more girls who are married away. All this was reinforced during the pandemic, and we have received countless reports on how people's rights and freedoms were restricted, how more women and girls were subjected to violence and sexual abuse, how income was greatly reduced and how access to school and care deteriorated. This happened in all countries, but it hit the poorest people much harder. Since Russia attacked Ukraine, the situation has worsened even more. The people of Ukraine have been horribly affected by bombings, shootings and sexual violence as weapons. At the same time, both countries are major exporters of certain raw materials, which will, among other things, lead to food crises in Africa and the Middle East. On top of that, we have climate change that is causing deterioration in the world, and the deterioration will escalate at a rapid rate if we do not take seriously the climate crisis. Mr President, I would like to Aid is important and makes a difference. Every time during the almost five years I have been a Member of Parliament and debated aid, I have said that Sweden is good at aid. This has also been confirmed every time I have met other countries' parliaments and organisations and people who have received our assistance. It has also been confirmed by various studies, such as OECD-Dac 2019. In every debate, I have also said that I am proud to support the dedicating at least 1% of Bni to a just world where everyone has their human rights met. At the same time, I have, on every occasion, highlighted, among other things, the importance of additional funding for climate aid being budgeted in accordance with the Paris Agreement. In addition, the government in conflict cases must allow Agenda 2030 to weigh more heavily than using aid to, for example, prevent refugees from moving from Turkey to EU countries or demand that Afghanistan receive them The Migration Agency has not given a residence permit. I have also highlighted the importance of seeing all aid from a feminist perspective and that at least 10% of aid should go to sexual and reproductive health and rights, both in humanitarian aid and in development aid. Not least, I have also called for Sweden to work towards removing wordings in OECD-DAC's regulations that allow aid money to be used for debt relief, foreign students at universities in donor countries and refugee reception. Unfortunately, the government has not heeded this, and now we are here with the government's decision on shamefully high bills. Sweden will be the OECD country that takes the largest share of development aid at the cost of refugee reception. Soon, therefore, the largest recipient country for development aid from Sweden – Sweden! This is happening despite the fact that we in Sweden have said that aid will go to the world's poorest countries and despite the fact that we have agreed in international agreements that aid should be based on the needs and priorities of the beneficiaries, that we have a mutual responsibility for implementation and results and, not least, that aid should be transparent. Both we in the Left Party and civil society organisations have for many years criticised the government's lack of transparency in relation to precisely the settlements for refugee reception. And now we see that we have been right in our criticism: The government has gone from calculating the cost in the autumn budget to SEK 61 000 per person in the reception system to SEK 121 000. In addition, since 2015, the government has always forecasted the number of refugees higher than it has since actually become. This happens at a time when the need for a just, equal and equal world is greater than for a long time. This is happening at a time when our solidarity is most needed. Mr President, I would like to For us in the Left Party, it is obvious that we will receive refugees from Ukraine, and just as we left-wing parties have always set up concretely for refugees who come to Sweden, we will do so for those who come from Ukraine. We believe that it is unsolidaric and distasteful to take several billions from previously announced grants when the government provides tax deductions so that people with money do not have to pay the full price to get their Armani shirts washed or get the toilet flushed in the summer house – especially when the Finance Minister himself has established that the Swedish economy is resilient thanks to strong public finances. These settlements will have devastating consequences for the most needy in the world but also for Sweden's reputation in the world of aid. So from being a country to be trusted, we will break a lot of agreements and we will legitimise the fact that other countries are also reducing their aid. Mr President, I would like to Today I find it more difficult to be proud of Swedish development policy.
i-VoHPhmtpEDUxTYBm9HG6Sq	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask you to accept reservation 12 in paragraph 2. Sweden should have generous and effective assistance. The Christian Democrats stand up for the 1% target. Sweden should also work to ensure that other countries raise their levels of aid. After two years of pandemic, the world has a situation where development has slowed down for 20 years. More people are starving, more underage girls have been taken out of school, married away and given birth, more countries have used the pandemic to make serious restrictions on civil liberties. Added to this are the effects of Russia's unjust attack war in Ukraine. In addition to the great humanitarian needs that arise in the wake of the war, Ukraine is one of the world's largest food producers, and the war will lead to a significant reduction in the supply of grain and food oil. We have already seen prices rise here in Sweden. Worse still is the situation in Yemen where the UN Food Programme was forced to suspend food aid to 8 million people. The fact that the Social Democratic Government has decided in this situation that one fifth of the aid will be used in Sweden is quite the wrong signal as to what international solidarity means. Moreover, when the cuts are to be made during the current financial year, there is no possibility to reallocate in order to mitigate the negative consequences. Aid organisations describe how the cuts will exacerbate the humanitarian disasters in Ukraine, Yemen, Syria and other countries. It will also affect support for civil society organisations, human rights defenders and environmentalists. All of this risks making an uncertain world even more uncertain and driving even more people on the run because of hunger, but also because of the dwindling democratic space that will result if our support suddenly fails. To add to all this by means of a letter of regulation to Sida, so that we cannot even ask the question for a ruling in Parliament's Chamber, is, frankly, cowardly by the Social Democratic Government. Mr President, I would like to New thinking is needed in aid policy. Authorities and organisations need to be strengthened in order to maintain a high level of quality in monitoring aid efforts. The world's needs are great, and funds should not be lost because of poor control, poor transparency or corruption. Sweden and the rest of the world must make a greater contribution to helping people escape. In many cases temporary refugee camps turn into long-term housing where there are major humanitarian needs. Sweden must contribute to new ways of meeting people's distress and vulnerability. Children must also be entitled to education in refugee camps. Water, food and sanitation must not be lacking. Refugees need to be given the opportunity to integrate into local communities through education and work. No one should be forced to be a refugee generation after generation. Democracy is in decline. Around the world, civil society, opposition politicians, journalists and lawyers are being pushed back. The scope for human rights is being reduced and this risks leading to an even more uncertain world. Support for these groups needs to be strengthened. Mr President, I would like to Swedish development work must also take greater account of the fact that most of the world's population sees themselves as believers. In many countries, religious leaders enjoy the greatest confidence in the public. Religion can be a positive factor for development but also an obstacle. It is therefore necessary that Swedish administrators at both embassies and the aid authority have knowledge and understanding of the role of religion in societies where secularisation has not gone as far as in Sweden. Then one can even take advantage of the influence of religious leaders to bring about changes. For example, the PMU in Africa, which works with parish leaders to strengthen the role of women, and the organisation that involved Muslim leaders in Afghanistan to urge men to allow their pregnant wife to go to controls at maternal care during pregnancy and to ensure that you have clean, boiled water at hand at home and only use new, unused razor blades to cut the umbilical cord. In this way maternal and child mortality could be reduced. The Christian Democrats want a greater share of aid to be conveyed through civil society. The budget level of the so-called CSO allocation should at least follow developments, moreover, but unfortunately civil society's share in Swedish aid has decreased in relation to other sectors. That has to change. Sweden has a long tradition of work for sexual and reproductive health and rights, SRHR, regardless of government. SRHR is an area where Sweden has added value that helps to achieve the global goals. Efforts for SRHR should be strengthened to combat, for example, forced and child marriages. The right of girls and women to education and health must be one of the highest priorities in Swedish development policy. Swedish aid needs to go more than before to strengthen the judiciary's institutions throughout the entire legal chain: the police, the judiciary and the penitentiary. This can be done, for example, through the development of new prisons to promote well-functioning penitentiary services with humane conditions and staff trained in respect of human rights. The tool can also be used effectively to combat corruption. It is urgent to support the Palestinian civilian population, but Sweden must make stronger demands on the Palestinian leadership on a bilateral basis and through the EU. The serious violations of human rights must stop. The Christian Democrats want to make aid conditional on the Palestinian Authority. Continued generous aid does not help the peace process, but rather helps to cement the conflict. Sweden, together with the EU and other international actors, will work for democracy and human rights in the Palestinian territories. This promotes the possibility of a peaceful two-state solution. Climate and greenhouse gas emissions are one of the greatest challenges of our time. Climate aid is an investment in the future. The population of low-income countries is hardest hit by hurricanes, floods and droughts. Strong measures are needed to ensure food security and to stop the deserts from spreading. Sustainable food production with a focus on small-scaleness can be a success key. Finally, Mr President, there must be clearer demands on those who accept aid. A state in which democratic development is going in the wrong direction should have no aid. Nor should organisations that do not stand up for democratic values and human rights. Then aid needs to be directed to other organisations, as has been done in Afghanistan, in order to alleviate the consequences for the civilian population. The government must take responsibility for the entire Swedish aid chain, whether the aid is channelled through the EU, UN agencies or civil society organisations. In all aid activities, careful controls and follow-up are needed to combat abuse of power and corruption. Ultimately, it is about the legitimacy of aid and respect for taxpayers' money.
i-7LKGyHU1akVBmZLj5ALcRp	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister Anders Ygeman, Minister Anna Hallberg, Minister for Economic Affairs Karl-Petter-Petter Thorwaldsson and Minister Khashayar Farmanbar. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. The Government Anders Ygeman answers both general policy questions and questions within its own area of responsibility.
i-M5K2vPRvKpdn4YsxMRN4jr	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by saying that on Sunday the tax on petrol and diesel will be reduced by 1 crown and 80 cents. This is the first part of three of the proposal that the Moderates made to bring down the price at pump by SEK 5 per litre. This government has said from the outset that it is impossible and that it does not want to do anything of this. On point after point, it has simply had to give in because it has been shown that it is perfectly possible to do so. Those of you who listen to the debate: wait until Sunday to refuel! Having said that, there is a clear majority in the Swedish parliament that has said very clearly to the government that part two and part three of the proposal will also be implemented so that we come down with SEK 5 per litre. Madam President, I would like My question to Minister Ygeman is simply: has the government submitted an application to the European Commission to reduce the tax on petrol and diesel below the minimum level of the Energy Taxation Directive?
i-C9u6LCE7ajyAgK5Fud1C6t	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Edward Riedl, for the question! We have been constructive both with the opposition in Parliament and with the EU. We have tried to hold discussions with the EU and have been turned down by a greater tax reduction. There is simply no support for the Moderate idea among the EU Member States. In fact, the answer to the question goes to you. Will the Swedish people receive support on time, or will it wait for more impossible proposals from the Moderates?
i-X9zwTNs5D4TBj4BTwZmeb2	Madam President, I would like Now it may be that the ministers do not talk to each other. On Monday, the European Commission sent a request to the EU Member States to submit an application to reduce the tax on petrol, diesel, gas and others to fall below the minimum level of the Energy Taxation Directive. It may be that it is a lack of knowledge on the part of the Government that makes him not know about this. On this point too, this government will be wrong. It is a pity that you are opposed to good politics.
i-VNfAFm79YHCpZBLJDWpH73	Madam President, I would like I guess we'll see what's going to happen. One thing's for sure. We are on the side of Swedish consumers when it blows in the outside world, when Putin drives up prices and when the Moderates come up with unrealistic and ill-considered proposals.
i-FVq9HSPHxU2Rb3TP7YaBby	Madam President, I would like On April 15-17, Sweden was shaken by the Koran riots. At least 104 police officers were injured in riots involving young men, older uncles, but also women and children. In an interview with Expressen, Anders Ygeman is asked if there are any cultural differences to bridge in connection with the riots. The Government then replied that this is not the case and that it is not the background to this. On the contrary, I believe that this is the ultimate proof that a large group of people do not understand how to behave in Sweden, a failure to integrate. Therefore, my questions to Anders Ygeman are as follows: Is the Government serious when he says that cultural differences have nothing to do with riots? Since when is it a part of the Swedish culture that mothers take children to riot to throw stones at the police, scream Islamist war cry and set fire to police cars?
i-M5F29Bz4tyawuUhYkGB8j2	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Pontus Andersson, for the question! Of course, burning police cars is not part of any culture. It is not part of the Swedish, the German, the American, the Nigerian or whatever culture you would like to list. It's criminal activity. It's to be prosecuted. The perpetrators shall be prosecuted regardless of their ethnic background and their skin colour. That is the simple message from the government. We should not do what the Swedish Democrats want to do by punishing those who have behaved, attended school and trained to become a doctor or teacher and contribute to the Swedish household.
i-Ae7Uf4piFSGN1MpBQfjiDb	Madam President, I would like It is quite clear to me that the government has failed, and the Koran riots are just another proof of this. If you want to live in Sweden, you should not just do the right thing. You should also adapt to our way of life and accept our laws and rules. The Social Democrats let these people into Sweden. The Social Democrats financed their lives in Sweden. When will the Minister for Migration ensure that these perpetrators of violence are expelled from Sweden?
i-81wGfFNGbDGmWusjuCkXrr	Madam President, I would like This is probably the difference between the Social Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. You want to give crime a color, a religion. The other crime you are not talking about in the speaker's seat. We've tightened up 70 sentences. We have invested SEK 12 billion more in the police. I have recently put forward proposals at Parliament's table that will lead to considerably more expulsions due to crimes by those who are not domiciled in Sweden.
i-M61DkDWzp9K9qYeKrqhpEg	Madam President, I would like Electricity supply is central to all communities, even Gotland. We need a new power cable. In practice, we have had to stop the supply of electricity to new establishments since 2007. We were promised that by the previous government in 2009, but Swedish power grid withdrew that promise in 2017. Now we from the Center Party managed to negotiate it in the regulation letter for 2020. This means that there is now an online investigation that is working on. It is extremely central for us to move forward with the climate change on Gotland, for us to be able to cope with an electricity supply with quality on Gotland and for Cementa to be able to change in time. My questions are quite clear: are we getting any clearer information? Do we get a control station along the way, or are we gonna wait another year?
i-AaiaUC52ZMALQa25qvcqzv	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Thomsson, for the question! As Lars Thomsson said, the discussion about a network cable to Gotland has been going on for a long time. The assessment we have received is that another link is needed by around 2030 and that the situation is now stable. An investigation is under way, announced on 23 February, to find the best solutions to meet the growing need. It is both about replacing old cables, whose technical and economic lifetime is estimated at 2035, and about looking at a possible new cable. The work is carried out together with Vattenfall and Svenska Kraftnät. At present, I cannot give Lars Thomsson a clearer answer than we have to wait for the investigation and see what it comes up with on the way forward. But one thing I can assure Lars Thomsson with: We are very keen to ensure that the green transition and electrification continue in society.
i-FZmf1riBreXRcfCK3wyG2c	Madam President, I would like It's a huge time pressure. The climate window is closing by 2030. Cementa is the second or third largest emission point in Sweden, and they want to rebuild and reset their production by 2030. This means that we need to be told that there will be a cable – not about the technical design, but about it becoming a cable. That message really needs to come quickly, and I hope the Government can help us by saying that it will be a cable.
i-Q9ux9KKzoqg5jnzZe6hr63	Madam President, I would like Lars Thomsson and I have the same ambition. I understand that he would like me to answer yes to the question. I would like to do the same. The investigation I mentioned, the online inquiry, will be completed in Q4 2022, i.e. this year. A dialogue of interests is planned, and it will be interesting to follow how the work will proceed. But I repeat: the ambition we share. We will ensure that Gotland has enough electricity. It is important for both climate change and security policy, but also for our common future.
i-58AhysA6TX1TY2eKEXQHNX	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Anders Ygeman. We all agree that the riots during the Easter weekend were terrible in many different ways. Those responsible shall be prosecuted. I would also like to highlight how high-ranking politicians go about the affairs of right-wing extremism and increase hatred, threats and violence against Muslims as a group and create divisions in society. We hear of collective punishment, and some want to expel entire families to those involved. Another wonders why the police didn't want to shoot hard. These statements have diluted an enormous amount of hatred and threats against all Muslims in the country.
i-HLLUFoeeP9nUd2G2Scczy1	Madam President, I would like The government has made a number of efforts to combat racism, violations, threats and hatred. We have improved the security investments in our congregations, whether Jewish, Christian or Muslim. It is only to be noted that Paludan and his followers are increasing the fragmentation and polarization of society. The only ones who have anything to gain from it are the right-wing extremists, who are fed by it, and the Islamists, who are nourished by it. It is the two outermost poles that reinforce each other and that sacrifice large parts of the public. This is particularly true of those living in the vulnerable areas. They are the victims of the senseless violence that we saw in the riots in Easter and which we must in every way distance ourselves from, strike down and prosecute.
i-3PcVhyMBMFw98bS6iRUnK5	Madam President and the Government. Of course Sweden works against racism. But the UN has been criticising Sweden for Islamophobia in the country for many years. It is therefore important that we act, especially in view of the fact that it is high-ranking politicians who go out and speak in this way. It affects all Muslims. There are a few hundred people involved in the riots, and they will be prosecuted. But all the other Muslims who live in this country should not be punished for it. And that is what we see when high-ranking politicians go out and speak that way. That is not acceptable.
i-QMbE7hpqZWqutmpAzgA95b	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Momodou Malcolm Jallow, for the question! Although I can sympathise with what Momodou Malcolm Jallow expresses, political debate from those you do not like will be met by other political debate. I do not believe that this is an area of further legislation, but it is a question of taking the debate with the political opponents you do not like and meeting them and winning the debate. However, we will ensure that everyone, regardless of their religion, can feel at home in Sweden and work with that religion here.
i-C3b75izwA3XTvUcP1MsRbh	Madam President, I would like In the budget complements made by the Riksdag, the Christian Democrats received the national health services. This means, in simple terms, the creation of a website where patients and carers can see where there is spare capacity in the country. We also send money to travel expenses for the patient so that you do not have to spend money yourself or have to be rich in order to get to the care. On Monday, the government announced how to implement this. It became an agreement with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions that contains no website but only fluffy words and unprecise statements. The money decided by the Riksdag should therefore not go to patients who receive care.
i-XfP2XV7raWgzm56QpSfQzP	Madam President, I would like In the section dealing with websites and such things, I would like to refer the question further to the responsible Minister of State, because then we are at a level of detail which unfortunately goes beyond that which applies to General Question Time. However, in the overall question of what we do to ensure that care goes to those who need it and that we should have sufficient health care resources, the answer is that we have provided many billions of SEK to improve healthcare in Sweden. We see how several health authorities and regions even have surpluses in the post-pandemic budgets. I can also say that the agreement that the government has signed with SKR must also include the Christian Democrats because you have representation in SKR, both in the council and in the board.
i-8H8abwDTMbFdopkJKFC4GH	Madam President, I would like It is the Riksdag that calls the Government to account for how to implement budget decisions – not the Swedish Municipalities and Regions, which is an association. The Parliament has requested the establishment of a national health care agency. That it's in the form of a website, I still thought the government could handle. We are therefore unable to use spare capacity in the country. In addition, the Government has stated in the agreement that it should not carry out the travel allowance for patients this year without returning to it next year. This year, therefore, the government expects only rich people to be able to seek treatment elsewhere. Why is the government doing this?
i-5KWeEYCXJVxpojwt3HizDj	Madam President, I would like I will leave it to the President to inform Members of the working arrangements for Question Time.
i-M4mYhL68BSyW4hpPzmVFgF	As I mentioned at the outset, these are horizontal issues of a general political nature or relating to a subject that falls within the remit of the Ministers of State.
i-D948RRP8FRTj1q6bvZZsi6	Madam President, I would like I, too, address my question to Minister for Integration Anders Ygeman. It is not only the case that long-term unemployment in Sweden has stuck with over 180 000 people, of whom the lion's share is born abroad and many women born abroad, but we also see that segregation is increasing in the country. Both the Swedish Defence University and the Swedish Security Service recently confirmed the image that extremism and radicalisation are also increasing in our society. Earlier today, the government presented eight new assignments on segregation to a number of authorities. My question to the government is: what results and what effect do you see before you? This is not the first time that the government has tackled these challenges and problems, and despite that, unfortunately, developments are going in the wrong direction.
i-Eca4PwfXnLU4coQvv7UxAM	Madam President, I would like The mandates given by the government today were given on the grounds that the bourgeois budget won the approval of the Riksdag and that the Delegation against segregation, the authority responsible for working against segregation, was thereby abolished. However, they had developed an important statistical tool to measure the impact of various measures at the district level if they have a positive or negative impact on segregation. In order to save this tool from Parliament's closure, we commissioned eight authorities to use the tool to analyse the effects on segregation. I believe that this may be an important contribution to the debate on segregation. If segregation increases in some districts, Roger Haddad can attack both the mayor and the government for it. Conversely, if segregation decreases, we can learn from what measures have actually been successful. Even though long-term unemployment is increasing, unemployment among people born abroad is falling.
i-VTffQneaez4SWDjD7MYjBU	Madam President, I would like Social development in Sweden is going in the wrong direction, whether we are looking at shootings, crime, segregation or extremism. In the case of vulnerable areas, these have increased during this government's time from 55 to 61 areas. This is nothing but a failure of Swedish integration policy. That is why I asked, Madam President, whether the government, with today's announcement, believes it can achieve any other real results. We have had delegations, but it has still not been effective.
i-8r67q6Se1ZwgaxYYuSWF9Z	Madam President, I would like An important result is a fall in unemployment among foreign-born people. That must be an unequivocally good message. The fact that the police are detailing their statistics to identify more areas is also good if they are serious about attacking segregation. However, I believe, like Roger Haddad, that much more needs to be done to break the segregation. Today we have presented a number of measures to do just that. I welcome Mr Haddad in that discussion.
i-VqRHPpL9hhWJoQ73XqXEAS	Madam President, I would like There is only one climate party in this Parliament. Yesterday, the Green Party voted as the only party against lowering the price of what is currently destroying our planet: the fossil fuels that Sweden continues to buy from Putin's Russia. This happened only days after the World Wildlife Fund presented a report which shows that we would already need to reduce emissions by 20% this year in order to achieve a fair climate transition in line with the objectives of the Paris Agreement. The Government has an obligation under the Climate Act to meet emission reductions. What measures does the government plan to take to compensate for the slaughter of climate policy, or possibly pause, that the government and parliament have now decided?
i-5qLNYSi2PyJPA6pRiGpawE	Madam President, I would like You have to be careful with the words. In fact, emissions in Sweden are not increasing; they are decreasing. They're decreasing pretty dramatically. I think the Green Party has an important part to play in this. But another important part is the big shift we see in the car park. Sweden is the country in Europe where most people choose to buy an electric car and free themselves from fossil dependence. Other major reasons are the reductions in the heating sector, that we have an industrial revolution where the world's first carbon-free steel is produced in Sweden and that the world's largest battery factory is built in Skellefteå. We will present further measures, because we and the Green Party have the same goal: Swedish emissions will be reduced, the Climate Act will be followed and Sweden will continue to be the example we are in the rest of the world. We have been voted on a number of times as the country with the best climate policy in the world.
i-MHgr6zGzuL7tkc4TZQ9geZ	Madam President, I would like These are incredibly important measures that we, together with the Social Democrats, have put in place. One of the most important, according to the Climate Policy Council, is the reduction obligation. Now the government and parliament are saying: No, this is what we are going to pause. No, we're going to lower the price of fossil fuels. Instead, it could have supported households in other ways – for example, as the Green Party has proposed, with reduced food VAT or with direct support for them in rural areas. That would have been a much better way forward.
i-MtbQfPRynATP9Ew5V9zdkq	Madam President, I would like We can be inconspicuous about the way, but I also think that we should be a little careful about the words here too. We do not actually pause the reduction obligation; we pause the calculation of the reduction obligation. We do this to keep Sweden's consumers less damaged by Putin's warfare and less damaged by the price of oil. I see before me that we will see a continued revolution of the Swedish car fleet – more electricity, more biofuels and lower emissions.
i-KXB7bJks5cu5MNAe97UHBr	Madam President, I would like The other day, a woman called to talk about pensions. She was due to retire in a year or two, a bit after her 65th birthday. She was very worried about how she would manage financially after a working life with relatively low pay and also a few years of severe illness that made her pension less high. This woman is not alone. Almost half of the female pensioners in our country have some kind of guarantee pension because the income pension is simply not enough. We can't have this. It is unreasonable that people should not be able to afford Christmas gifts for their grandchildren or go with the pensioner's organisation on the summer trip. It is unreasonable to have to worry this way when you retire.
i-Lxb6JD5CNU13UsRbH1w9pv	Madam President, I would like This, if implemented, will give an average of SEK 760 per month for Swedish pensioners, who have worked hard for a full career – up to SEK 1 000 in some cases. I know that many of these women are now waiting for the message from the Riksdag: Will I receive this money? Will I be able to afford to go on vacation and do this? That is why the parliamentary parties are guilty of the answer. Will the Moderates vote for this, or will pensions be kept at too low a level? Will the Swedish Democrats vote in favour of this? They have claimed to be on the side of pensioners in the election campaign after the election movement. Now there is a sharp proposal on the table of the Riksdag. It is in the pensioners' wallet that the answer will be given.
i-67ACBgRRAVhqzFZqQd9Xk5	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking you for your reply. As the Government says, the guarantee supplement will mean a significant improvement for a great many pensioners and their finances in the short term. But then longer-term measures are also needed for more people to have better pensions. I therefore wonder how the government wants to secure higher income pensions in the future as well.
i-7JaRKhYmPKeP1PrRUn5zT9	Madam President, I would like I thank the questioner for the question. Sweden has one of the world's best pension systems. But it also has a serious deficiency: too many pensioners receive too little pension. In a welfare country like Sweden, you should not be dependent on private pension insurance to get food on the table or a little gold edge on your life as you get older. That is why pension contributions need to be increased and future pensions raised. In Sweden you should be able to trust that if you work your whole life you should have a good pension when you retire.
i-38DipK4ZmonjN7wpbSpTe6	Madam President, I would like I see that Minister Thorwaldsson is ready. I think he knows we're going to share the same question. It's about the mining industry, one of the industries that built our country big. We've been mining ore and producing metals for over a thousand years. At most we had 3,000 mines in Sweden. Now we only have 12 left, and they're all iron ore mines. Never in the 21st century has there been so little interest in searching for metals and minerals in Sweden. In 2021, 109 applications for mining explorations were received, and this is a clear downward trend. One explanation, of course, is the difficult regulatory framework and the long lead times we have. I therefore put the question to the Minister for Economic Affairs: what do we do to shorten lead times?
i-W9HcJqghhq7YVPmrwiLrVf	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm, for the question! We share the same passion for opening new mines in Sweden, and one of the problems that helps us to open up too few is that it takes too long from prospecting until they open. The government has noticed this since before and set up an investigation that will provide answers in October on how to shorten the permit process. We have also given assignments to our county boards and our courts to review how it should go faster from applying to start a mine until it starts. I must nevertheless say that the information we have received from LKAB makes this a nice week for Swedish mining industry. The mineral supply has been secured to 2060 with about twice as much iron ore as it has broken ever since it started in the 1800s and also in new deposits – perhaps it can solve the issue with the whole of Europe's need for phosphorus and rare earth metals. So it is a proud minister responsible for mines standing here today.
i-14Bf596aktauV8pbyp4v9Q	Madam President, I would like Sweden, like the rest of the world, is very dependent on innovation-critical metals in order for us to be fossil-free by 2030. As Minister Ygeman described earlier, we have started the construction of the large battery factory in Skellefteå, which is a positive sign. But right now we are buying innovation-critical metals from Congo and China. That is not acceptable, Minister.
i-31PBmEgTn3ovBaQ7jZgXrY	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the supplementary question, Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm! No, that's not acceptable. The whole of Europe depends far too much on mineral purchases from Russia, China and Congo, not least from the so-called rare earth metals. I therefore believe that this message that came from LKAB the day before yesterday will be a good one for the whole of Europe. In fact, the European Union has this as one of the most important priorities. I am sure we will be able to do a lot with Swedish mines to solve a major social problem in the future.
i-Pg8p3zegZDdzWfJrRX8PJr	Madam President, I would like Recently, the government presented a proposal to abolish the municipal veto in the establishment of wind power. It is a proposal that now does not seem to go through in the Riksdag and where the Swedish Democrats decide. At the same time, we have a situation where it is forbidden to build new nuclear power in 287 of the country's 290 municipalities. Now there are actors who want to build new nuclear power and who have an interest from companies and municipalities in building up up to 15 new small reactors. We see that the state-owned company Vattenfall is developing new nuclear power abroad instead of in Sweden and only this week announced that it believes that the legislation should be reviewed for where to build new nuclear power in Sweden, as the Swedish Democrats have proposed for a long time. Now we have research in Sweden and we have companies that want to build, and then, Madam President, my question to the government and Minister Farmanbar is why the government so crampedly resists in terms of there being more equal competition between the power teams.
i-FfEiTXuLqdZyEbcf3mZMbf	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mattias Bäckström Johansson, for the question! The government is tech-optimistic. We are neutral and work according to the best interests of consumers, i.e. both our industry and our electricity consumers. We know that small modular reactors will not have a positive effect on electricity prices in Sweden in the short term. Today, despite the rise in prices, we have one of the world's and Europe's lowest electricity prices. We have this because we have invested in profitable forms of energy and because the market has invested in profitable forms of energy. I will remind Mattias Bäckström Johansson that, while we are standing here, there are currently applications for 350 terawatt hours of electricity, which is equivalent to two and a half times more than the whole of Sweden consumes, only in offshore wind power. Despite what we have heard in the media, there are zero applications for new nuclear power in Sweden despite the fact that it has been possible for ten years and despite the fact that there are three sites with advanced transmission cables, without municipal veto and with full opportunity to apply.
i-KvUB6FobsxXnvog4SXVvQM	Madam President, I would like There is also a municipal veto on nuclear installations, as the Government should know. If Sweden is to succeed in electrification, we cannot close the door to any fossil-free alternative. The question is why the government is so afraid to allow new nuclear power to be built where electricity is most needed and allow all fossil-free alternatives to exist. Now we can see that the UK is going forward with regulatory approval by 2024, and there are actors who want to get this in place by 2030. Why, then, does the government want to close the door to the various sources of electricity that we will need where we must also have planned power generation in the future?
i-SpMs6yUTjWDMYzbTyfjWMw	Madam President, I would like Where the electricity is needed, says Mattias Bäckström Johansson. It is needed here in southern Sweden where there are three sites with forward transmission cables. The three sites in particular are not covered by the municipal veto. There it is quite possible to build, but there are zero applications, because it is not profitable. Then you can wish for it to be built somewhere else — as if you think someone would say yes to a cute little reactor in the backyard when you say no to wind turbines. It won't solve problems, but does someone want to build: Go ahead, there are three sites!
i-iUB4NNAFMjHC21DQhQJAX	Madam President, I would like I'm a proud Göingebo. My municipality of residence Östra Göinge was one of the municipalities that welcomed and received most refugees in 2015. We took a huge responsibility and did an extremely large job to solve the situation for all those who sought protection in Sweden. But the reception also has a backside and major challenges. The challenges may be greater than many actually understand. Now we are facing a new refugee situation in Sweden. Of course, Sweden should be an open arms for people fleeing Ukraine, but we must not repeat the 2015 mistake regarding large refugee homes in small municipalities. The government today expresses a desire for an equal distribution throughout the country and for municipalities that previously took on a great responsibility not to have to take equal responsibility now. Unfortunately, the signals are the opposite. Out in the municipalities, especially in my municipality Östra Göinge, we receive signals about requests from the Migration Agency. Therefore, Madam President, my question goes to Minister Ygeman: Can the Government guarantee that small municipalities like Östra Göinge Municipality will not find accommodation again?
i-MJzZn3ewJ9nuGdzrPxicSC	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Sofia Nilsson, for the question! My answer is yes. Small municipalities should not have to take disproportionate responsibility this time. That is why we have commissioned the Finnish Immigration Service to distribute housing evenly across the country when they procure. Therefore, the Finnish Immigration Service will only procure in one month's time. This is why the government is putting a new law on Parliament's table shortly – it is out for consultation now with a very short consultation period of just three weeks – where the goal is for refugees to be distributed evenly across the country. The Act will take effect on 1 July, and then there will also be a change between the Migration Agency's accommodations that have been procured so far and the accommodations that the municipalities produce. In this way, we will have a more even distribution across the country. It is as Sofia Nilsson says that Europe will be able to do this, all the countries of Europe must be helped together, and if Sweden is to do this, all of Sweden's municipalities must be helped together.
i-X6dkbAunZeRnnM4AbCcube	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I am really glad that the government has taken this seriously and listened to this. But I would like to repeat my question: where is the government's plan? Because the signals are actually the opposite right now. We receive inquiries to the facilities that were previously large accommodations. Now there are once again requests from the Migration Agency if you can consider starting up again.
i-6UQfFZEnw2EGuZA3aPc5aB	Madam President, I would like The government has presented the plan. It includes the mission to the Migration Agency to distribute it evenly across the country. It contains new legislation to ensure that all municipalities in the country are helped. I hope, of course, that all parties in this House will support that legislation. As I said: Even when it comes to the accommodations that the Migration Board has procured so far, it is a month's notice period, so they can be terminated quickly.
i-MqMSXXrExLMTYZuN3rQTYK	Madam President, I would like More and more countries are moving in a conservative, patriarchal and authoritarian direction, and fewer and fewer people are having their human rights met. Russia's attack on Ukraine has exacerbated the situation even more. One way to support people in crisis is aid, and Sweden, by being a reliable donor in the long term, has helped to protect the most vulnerable. At this point, the government is choosing to present huge estimates of development aid. Many civil society organisations and multilateral organisations have turned to me and asked whether the government is aware of the distasteful nature of the accounts. I cannot answer for the government, therefore, Madam President, I would like to ask Minister Ygeman whether the government understands what these settlements will mean for the world's most vulnerable and whether it is realised that Sweden will lose its reputation as a reliable donor when many agreements are to be broken.
i-WaB23tCyoUm1WQdvinuUzL	Madam President, I would like I am proud of Swedish aid. I am proud that Swedish aid is increasing, not decreasing. I am also proud that it provides Sweden with an opportunity to assist the people fleeing Russian aggression in Ukraine. I think the vast majority of people understand that it costs money if you want to help people escape. We need to help them when they're on the run. This is true when they come to Sweden, when they come to the neighbourhood and when they flee in Ukraine. For me, it is natural for us to use the money we have set aside for aid to assist those fleeing the war in Ukraine. They need our assistance.
i-39k9FmtJ1aiDkuPWKdDarD	Madam President, I would like It is worrying that international solidarity, which is an important part of the labour movement, is so easily excluded when, according to the Minister for Finance, Swedish finance is strong. I wonder why the world's most vulnerable should pay when we in Sweden make tax deductions to people with high income so that they do not have to pay the full price to get their Armani shirts washed.
i-4yzHZpHuUXYGiXAyUj4iGA	Madam President, I would like International solidarity must also include those affected by the war in Ukraine. Our economy is good. That is why we are increasing aid; we are not lowering it. But we are using aid to assist those who have suffered from Putin's warfare in Ukraine. I think we should be proud of this aid and not take the approach expressed by Yasmine Posio here.
i-BdDkTL5tippj4VhD1Zq1Ex	Madam President, I would like Today, at least 660 000 Swedes live worldwide. You live, work and study there. Some of the people who have got a job abroad form a family there. It may be a family that includes a third country party. When they then want to move back to Sweden, they encounter problems. There are regulatory problems that can separate you from your children. We know that there has been separation from one's children for up to two years. We politicians must take this seriously and put it right. My question to Anders Ygeman therefore concerns the following. We in the Christian Democrats have two solutions that we see as possible. One is that it makes a difference whether the person who comes to Sweden is a relative of a Swedish citizen and therefore may apply for a permit here in Sweden. The second is that priority is given to dealing with cases concerning foreign Swedes. What does the Minister think of this?
i-MHDqv9HKGXDpD3QGjhUHVT	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Eklind, for the question. Let me first say that I share the picture of the problem description. Like many others, foreign Swedes have been affected by too slow processing times. The processing times have been too long at the Migration Agency for quite a long time. This is the reason why we have given the agency the task of prioritising shorter processing times in the regulatory letter. Madam President, I would like One should also be fair and say that the war in Ukraine and that we have had the worst refugee situation in Europe since the Second World War have not made it easier for the Migration Agency to shorten its processing times. This applies regardless of how one chooses to divide the processing areas. Unfortunately, this also applies to areas other than foreign Swedes. I look forward to our being able in future to give more happy news to foreign Swedes that the processing times are actually being shortened.
i-EUmodgSAosRYHwSBzMaern	Madam President, I would like I certainly share the Minister's view that what has happened in recent months must of course be taken into account. But I had two suggestions. One proposal was that if you are a relative of a Swedish citizen you should be able to apply for a permit when you come to Sweden. The main rule is that you do it before you come to Sweden. That part has nothing to do with the Ukraine situation. I hope the Minister agrees with me on that. We must realise that we will have an increasingly international labour market. That is why we need to remedy this.
i-NrtgjAyFMTcST3WsG5fHpg	Madam President, I would like I share Mr Eklind's view that this needs to be addressed. The proposal he makes would mean a change of law and would run counter to the practice we have in the Aliens Act. That would be unfortunate. The main track must be to invest the resources to reduce the processing times at the Migration Agency and ensure that they have the right resources so that all interested groups have a reasonable processing time.
i-MvByRUrMr5uP8ujuWd1mDj	Madam President, I would like My question is also addressed to Minister Anders Ygeman. I would like to raise an issue that has been topical recently, namely Islamophobia. In my hometown of Malmö, we have produced a report that shows that almost all hate and threats online are directed at Muslims and people from the Middle East. According to the report, almost 70 percent of hate commentaries on social media are directed against Muslims. In the past, we have been able to read in a report that there is at least one attack a week on mosques in Sweden. In addition to this, I face many testimonies. Women in particular are being mocked and attacked because they wear a veil.
i-WT5SQBKHJnxeMnWyh8AXya	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mubarik Mohamed Abdirahman, for the question! It is, of course, important that society is strongly opposed to xenophobia, xenophobia and hate and threats online, in reality and in all forms of attacks. Together with the Crime Prevention Council, we have produced a study on Islamophobia. The agency has developed support to overcome this. In 2022, before the summer, we will develop specific action programmes against various forms of racism, including Islamophobia, in order to further strengthen our work against xenophobia and racism, which we are, of course, united against.
i-H4WjGiNxr2WMaEWScyJdyn	Madam President, I would like I know the government does a lot of things, but I want to tell you that in my hometown of Malmö we have 180 different nationalities and that there are over 150 different languages. For us, diversity is a strength. At the same time, there are right-wing forces that want to divide society into a we and them. I hope that the government can do even more to protect our minorities.
i-QGzDzzQGrM6pzZHBB7V73q	Madam President, I would like Of course we will, but unfortunately it is not only right-wing extremists who want to so split and split up in Swedish society. There are also militant left-wing extremists and Islamists. We must take action against all those who want to so split and split between people and increase contradictions and polarisation in Sweden. We must strike hard at those who want to use hatred, threats and violence as part of their political activities.
i-9mbKkooFCE6PWRKdmFAoxe	Madam President, I would like I have an urgent question that does not get enough space in the debate. In the light of the serious situation in Europe, it is more important than ever for industry that intellectual property assets can be protected and exploited. As much as 90 per cent of the company's value is currently in these assets. The EU's industrial strategy of 2020 has as one of its main points the intellectual property action plan, i.e. an action plan for intellectual property assets. This point, and also the wording of the government's industrial strategy, lacks intellectual property rights. Our neighbouring country Finland has a national intellectual property strategy for a long time, which means that work at EU level is well connected home and can be monitored nationally. Denmark now also has a plan, an intellectual property strategy, and it is launched. Therefore, I ask my question to Minister Karl-Petter-Petter Thorwaldsson : When does the Swedish strategy come about?
i-Sn66gT5YiBQUxzBGJQvN9w	Madam President, I would like I thank Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson for a very important question. It is true that Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson says that it is thanks to our strong innovation policy in Sweden that so many new inventions and new discoveries are made by our creative industry. Therefore, the risk of copying and theft is indeed much greater for innovative companies than for others. I participated last week in a major conference on intellectual property that the agency works with in Sweden, and there is reason to come back to follow up on compliance with the law and that intellectual property becomes a more important issue for Swedish society. If you have invented and put all your time and soul into starting a business based on an idea, and then see it stolen by a competitor who is just copying, it may not make you start a new business or use your best thinking ability to get the best ideas out. Intellectual property is really important, and we must strengthen our work for the future.
i-Mxb9HrkNW44fzZDiFQtXGx	Madam President, I would like The Energy Performance of Buildings Directive and the Government's 2050 vision are that all buildings should be zero emission buildings by 2050. In our sparsely populated area, the normal renovation costs of the house often go beyond the value of the market. It becomes even more difficult to get the calculation together when a renovation means that the house will become a zero emission house and a regular renovation is not enough. Renovating all houses and farms in Sweden to zero emission houses within 28 years requires huge investments, if not many houses are to be demolished. Does the government have any plans, Minister Khashayar Farmanbar, for how it will be profitable to renovate buildings in sparsely populated areas? Or is the intention that the houses should be demolished before the 28 years have passed?
i-NukbycP2Roaowg2HoxDBga	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question from Mikael Eskilandersson. The regulation is currently being discussed and negotiated in the European Union. We'll see where the final results end up. Sweden's position is that there must be great flexibility in implementation. It is about flexibility in how funding is done, and it is about flexibility in the timeframe and, finally, it is about flexibility in which buildings can or cannot be covered. For example, buildings of cultural historical values may not want to be included in this at all. Before the final product itself is in place, it is difficult to say exactly what the next stage of funding should be. But I think we can agree on one thing, namely that there will be a need for much greater flexibility than some countries in southern Europe want in the implementation of each Member State.
i-F6HJDXNJYgmvVbEVzELj79	Madam President, I would like In 2014, when the terror cult Daish attacked Kobane in western Kurdistan and Syria, it was the Kurdish liberation fighters in YPG and YPJ who made sure to fight them. In Shingal, it was also the Kurdish forces who protected the Yazid people. This struggle they waged not only for the Kurdish people but for democracy and justice throughout the world. We have expressed our pride and gratitude for what the Kurdish forces did. Right now, the same liberation fighters are being attacked by the Turkish government's fighter planes. People are murdered and killed day by day.
i-Rc3oDsx7eMdbz9Z7CM1HwF	Madam President, I would like I thank Daniel Riazat for the question. Unfortunately, this is not a new phenomenon. Throughout history, Sweden has, and still does, stood up for peace, freedom and democracy, for every people's right to freedom, for every country's right to freedom. Of course, we reject armed attacks wherever they occur in the world, and we will continue to do so.
i-YRnHJHXC7odcuUiKJ1zaa8	Madam President, I would like My question also goes to Minister Ygeman. The government has recently presented several proposals to address the increasing fuel prices, such as fuel compensation and an improved temporary housing allowance for families with children. These are measures that, since they are decided in Parliament, can be put in place quite quickly. But many live in areas where you are completely dependent on the car to get to and from work. The current travel allowance has remained still for a long time.
i-9GGgQEXySoa2zRfrxGuXh8	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Mrs Ingela Nylund Watz for this question. The description is, of course, quite correct. Many people in our elongated country have a long way to and from work and high costs of transporting to and from work. It is therefore important that we can, on the one hand, redeploy the travel allowance system and, on the other hand, strengthen the travel allowance. Such a proposal will be presented by the government very shortly.
i-HZ3zpPWxFAnXNWrs5LQXky	Madam President, I would like Just over a year ago, the intensive year was launched, at a cost of about SEK 100 million. A year later, we can see that this has become another child of integration policy sorrow. There are no training places to learn Swedish and a profession. In addition, only 2 out of over 800 participants have received a so-called mentor, which has been a main focus. This follows a pattern. A certain number of SEK 100 million is invested in a particular project. The activities are rarely well thought out or appropriate. Very few get any actual jobs in the end. Rather, the aim seems to be to give the ministers something to talk about in the media. I would therefore like to ask whether Anders Ygeman can tell the House how many of those in the first intensive year who have so far received a job without support, that is, a non-subsidised job.
i-N8j37uMgH3AEmdad1Pc16T	Madam President, I would like It'll be a little ironic with Ludvig Aspling's irony. If he thinks that the role of the whole aid is that the ministers should be allowed to talk about it, it seems exceptionally foolish to raise that particular issue in this House so that the Council of State can once again talk about the support. But, of course, I thank Ludvig Aspling for that opportunity. The answer to Ludvig Aspling's question is that I do not know because this falls under Minister Ekström. But what I can say is that we have a good evaluation of the various actions that are being made. Some will be successful, and some will be less successful. One result we see from the government's policy is that more and more people with foreign background go to work. More and more children with foreign background are seeing their parents go to work. On the other hand, too few of the long-term unemployed succeed in entering the labour market, and we need to make greater efforts there.
i-8JvF6kwwMqYBBE2WHy1gDj	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to take this opportunity to draw attention to the fact that today is Worker's Memorial Day, when we remember all the workers who lost their lives. Our demand must be that no one should die from their work. Now to my question. The light comes from the north, you'd say, but it's Ludvika who lights the lamp. At Dalarna's largest private workplace Hitachi Energy, thousands of people are working to enable green transition through world-leading energy transfer. A few weeks ago I had to practice there, and then I was involved in building a valve that should be at sea outside Germany. Hitachi is now expanding with 500 new jobs in Ludvika and is newly established in Smedjebacken. In Borlänge we see that Kvarnsveden paper mill instead becomes Northvolt with 1,000 new jobs. Uses that have been painted as down and ugly are now allowed to contribute. How does the Minister for Economic Affairs view this development for the industry in Sweden?
i-9vrHeGRVLSD3LjL8hR7YQV	Madam President, I would like Sometimes you would really like to have 15 minutes to tell the answer, but you only have one minute. It is clear that the large industrial establishment that takes place mainly in northern Sweden but that spreads faster and faster to the south gives new hope to people around the country. I was in Sollefteå municipality yesterday. I participated in the discussion when they presented an idea to create 100 new jobs to make aviation fuels – 10 per cent of Sweden's aviation fuels will be produced there in the future. For the first time in decades, a major investment is being made in new jobs. The hope it gives the citizens there is seen in everyone you meet. We saw the pictures from the Northvolt information meeting this week, which filled the entire Galaxy – 800 people were there to see the information about the start-up. We will take advantage of the hope this green revolution offers for the whole of Sweden so that the industry can continue to grow and give jobs to people all over the country. That's great.
i-WRMXxpcWusXsAMT8KEvvP9	Madam President, I would like The mass refugee directive has meant that the refugees from Ukraine have been registered quite quickly and then had the opportunity to get a job. However, many have reported that it takes time to get a coordination number, which is necessary to get started with jobs and get a bank account.
i-692P834NKD8CnJqJ4aJhHr	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Elsemarie Bjellqvist, for the question. It should be said that many Ukrainians who have come here have also received coordination numbers. But today there are two separate processes when you arrive. First you have to go to the Finnish Immigration Service, and then you have to go to the Swedish Tax Agency. The idea is that this process should now be coordinated so that when applying for protection under the so-called mass refugee directive, or temporal protection directive as it is called in English, you will automatically get a coordination number. With this measure, it will be even faster for Ukrainians seeking protection in Sweden to make themselves available to the labour market. I believe that it will be a good and important measure to bring more Ukrainians into employment.
i-E4TNkp4ym1XN1ztXuf85o1	Madam President, I would like Our parliamentary debates may rarely be particularly sexy to watch, but when you listen to the debate on Swedish aid, you can see that there is too much S&M in Swedish politics. What one might think about most of all is the long-term perspective. When we talk about aid and development, it is clear that much is about getting a policy that creates a long-term positive development that lifts people out of poverty and lifts people into freedom and ensures that we meet the sustainability challenges ahead. If you look at some of these challenges, you can see that both the Social Democrats and the Moderates fail to pursue an aid policy that is just sustainable. In the debate today, we have heard that the government is opting for a radical reduction in aid. Moreover, the Social Democratic Government is reducing aid most in those areas that are perhaps the most important for achieving sustainable development in the long term. What is being reduced most is, by the way, precisely sustainable development. After all, all aid is in some sense about sustainable development, but the part of it that is actually aimed at sustainable development is reduced by almost 50%. Then we continue: what we want to reduce the second most is the aid that goes to human rights, to democracy and to uphold the principles of the rule of law. That, too, is almost 50 percent. In third place, the aid that goes through Swedish organisations in civil society, i.e. the organisations that are professionals in aid – the organisations that are often the best at actually doing what the aid is for in reality. It reduces the government's third most on. I would say that is not a sustainable development policy, Madam President. In fact, an aid policy should aim to ensure that, in the long term, we do not need aid because there is peace and freedom throughout the world and because all people have been lifted out of poverty. It is a very long way from then, but if we want to achieve it, we must ensure that we have respect for the principles of the rule of law, that we have democracy and that we are committed to sustainable development. This is the only way to ensure that people are lifted out of poverty in the long term and that all the other aid objectives are actually met. That is why the Liberals have always prioritised and continue to prioritise democracy aid. Madam President, I would like I think almost everyone is up to this. I think all parties really want us not to need any aid in the world. Of course, it would be better if there were no problems to be resolved, but we all understand that this will not happen tomorrow, in the next financial year or for the foreseeable future. That is why the Moderates' idea of aid policy is not sustainable either. Their focus is not on strengthening democratic aid, and their focus is not on ensuring that we get more sustainable development or on strengthening the civil society organisations that handle much of the aid that actually works. Their development policy is about promoting their zero vision for aid. Their development policy is about ensuring that we do not meet the 1% target, but rather that we have a 0.7% target. If we talk in the very long term, I think, of course, that all parties are in favour of the idea that the best thing would be if we had a world where aid was not needed. But here and now it is absolutely not sustainable in the long term to try to reduce aid in this way. It is not a sustainable policy. Madam President, I would like I also believe that many people support the Moderate idea. So they say we should have 0.7 instead of 1% – while the Liberals are in favour of the 1% target, that is, we should give at least 1% in aid – but the Moderates also add that they can do that by 0.7% because they are so effective. But no one is against efficiency, Madam President. No one is against the effectiveness of aid. That's what everyone's for. There is no conflict line here; it is a false conflict line they are trying to paint. On the contrary, it goes without saying that at least 1% should go to aid – and that it should be used effectively, so that we get as much as possible for the aid money. Madam President, I would like As far as long-termism is concerned, it is trade, transparency, the free movement of people, goods and services and capital throughout the world, and the building of democracy that will bring people into freedom tomorrow, the day after tomorrow and in the future. Here and now, however, we have not achieved all these objectives, and that is why generous aid is needed to help and ensure that people can have decent lives and sustainable development. There has, of course, been a lot of debate on aid settlements. Liberals are, in principle, opposed to the way in which settlements are carried out today. After all, we have a regulatory framework for this, OECD-Dac; I am sure everyone who listens to this debate knows that. We believe that these rules must be fundamentally changed, because there are far too many things to count off on aid that should not be counted off. However, there are other things that should be included in the aid, such as democratic aid to countries that are not poor – Russia has been mentioned here in the debate, as an example, and there are other examples as well. So what is to be counted as aid or not needs to be redefined, and the rules need to be re-established. The rules must be tightened so that it is not possible to do the same amount of counting for the things we are debating here today. That is the policy of the Liberals in this area. Madam President, I would like As I said, we want to maintain the 1% target until the OECD-Dac rules have been re-established, and indeed after that. However, in addition to redoing the rules, we in the Liberals would like to see additional aid in a few areas, which may be worth mentioning here. Ukraine has been mentioned in the debate, and there we have come forward with a proposal to use Sweden's emergency credit. For those of you who listen to the debate: In Sweden, we have a EUR 40 billion emergency credit that can be used in various forms of crisis. Liberals have said that we could take 10 out of these 40 billion and use it as additional support to Ukraine. So this is beyond the aid budget, and it can be used in different ways. One way could be the kind of aid Ukraine needs. Another such thing is the climate. We have spoken very little about the climate today in this aid debate. It's a little strange, I think. After all, the climate is the greatest threat of our time to people's freedom – the greatest threat to people's freedom. So it is in our years of life here on earth. We will need assistance to offset the changes that climate change entails in people's lives, but also to ensure that climate change is reduced. There, the Liberals have proposed that the money from what is a little sloppyly referred to as climate tariffs at EU level, CBAM, Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism, should go to additional climate aid, in full. It is precisely about us not building a structure that means protectionism and should not build a structure that means less trade and openness in the world, that creates long-term sustainability. Instead, it is a question of having a structure that ensures that climate change is paired with additional aid. Madam President, I would like I would like to remind those who are watching that there is too much S and M in Swedish politics. And I would like to endorse our reservation 6. For the gain of time, I do not support our other reservations, but of course we are all behind them.
i-MvQt2SiPUwR2tB2BvpXX8z	Madam President, I would like When the Liberals choose to talk a lot about Moderate politics, I can of course do nothing but go up and face certain parts. Joar Forssell talks about how it's more important for the Moderates to promote a zero vision. This is not the case at all; it is a matter of fundamental importance to us: what objectives do we actually intend to achieve? We have set a zero vision, if we are to call it that, in very many other areas as well. And it's to be very clear where we want to be going. If we move away from the big hump in the aid debate today, the 1% target, it is actually about what goals we want to achieve. For us, it is incredibly important that we actually point out that this is where we want to reach. Therefore, we will stand firm to keep it to ourselves and nothing else. That is what this is all about. Then Joar Forssell talks about efficiency and the one-percent target not being in contradiction with each other, but it has turned out that it does so in some areas, when employees at Sida feel pressure to generate large payouts instead of using tools, such as the guarantee instrument. The Swedish National Audit Office has stated this in its report. Let us discuss a large aid budget instead of falling into the trap of the paying press! That is why the 1% target is such an important part of the development debate for the Moderates.
i-KZwG8cH9K3uCd4X1ZuMcve	Madam President, I would like But the Moderates do not want to discuss a large aid budget. The Moderates want to discuss a reduction in the aid budget. It is like the foundation of Moderate policy in this area. Mr Storckenfeldt talks about the need to focus on the target. Yes, but everyone agrees. Everyone agrees that we would like to have a world where people live in peace and freedom, where everyone lives in wealth and where there is prosperity and prosperity wherever you travel. But that is not the reality. That is not the reality. And as long as the reality is not there, we need to discuss how we make aid better, not how we make aid less. We need to make aid more effective – I fully agree. And one such thing – and here I am also critical of the government and the Social Democrats – is that I think it is effective to let aid go through civil society, our civil society organisations. Because they are good at ensuring that the money is well spent. It is not the case that the needs are so small in the world that aid must only be spent on unnecessary projects because there is no good money to spend on aid. On the contrary, aid needs in the world are enormous. Then you cannot answer that by reducing aid. Then we must respond with an offensive aid policy, which also gives priority to what is most important. I think that we should prioritise democracy, human rights and the principles of the rule of law and let civil society be a major and important part of this and not lose out on sustainable development, as I said in my speech. But, Madam President, I would like to know how the Moderates think it is easier to achieve prosperity on earth by lowering aid. I find that very strange.
i-AvPheU2DN1kZa4jWjHEouN	Madam President, I would like Politics is a priority – we all know that. And here the Moderates have made a different priority. That's it. We see that we have to go to 0.7% of bni instead. We have made a different priority, quite simply. We see that we have very great needs here in Sweden as well. It is also a question of being able to set the category of expenditure against the category of expenditure, and we have done so here. Joar Forssell talks about reality and efficiency. Then it is also a question of actually being able to use other tools. Having a large aid budget and being more effective are not being set against each other. But we see that, as the system is built up today, not all the means at our disposal are being used to achieve the objectives that we want to achieve. The Moderates prioritise democracy, human rights, SRHR issues and global health. These are some of the areas that are absolutely the highest priority of ours. Here we see that Sweden's aid needs to be focused in a completely different way than before, so that we actually achieve the goals that we want and can achieve in the areas that we are good at and that we have historically been good at.
i-Smat3nimsnviE3ZhYFZGnM	Madam President, I would like The argument from the Moderates is a little strange, I think. Like all parties, the Moderates are committed to the effectiveness of aid. And the Moderates agree, like all parties, that we would rather have a world where aid is not needed because people already live in prosperity, freedom and peace. Then the Moderates say that the aid does not work perfectly today. In fact, I also believe that everyone is up to it. I believe that everyone – all parties and probably all citizens – is in favour of the fact that aid is not working perfectly today. But then you should deliver suggestions on how to make sure that the system works better, not suggestions on how to cut back. If you agree on the first two points, that is to say that we need aid because the world has not reached the goals we have set ourselves and because we do not have a sustainable world, we need to continue to have generous aid from Sweden. But of course there are problems, and of course there are things to be addressed. We need to be more effective. We have proposals for that on the part of the Liberals. Our answer is not that we should cut down because something doesn't work. We do not do that in any other policy area either, to be honest. The Moderates do not say this: We see that the school results are not perfect throughout the country. That's why we're cutting down schools all over the country. We can see that the medical system is not working. That's why we're gonna cut down on medical care all over the country. This may also be the case with the defense. The fact that we are not good enough to defend our country, I think many people are up to it, but the answer is not that we should therefore cut back on defence. The answer is that we should make sure that health care works better, that the school works better and that we get a better defence policy. We agree on NATO membership. But of course it should also be so that the aid will work better and become more effective. We're all up to that. But the Moderates are trying to paint this false conflict because you are not interested in talking about how the aid will be better. One is not interested in this, because in reality the most important core of Moderate policy is that aid should be reduced. And I'm sorry about that.
i-7sGxSxUnMRQBsyZDBspyi6	Madam President, I would like Today I am the second last in my last debate on Swedish aid. I am grateful to be able to stand here and comment on the world in which we find ourselves. I've just come back after a 30-hour trip, one-way. Maybe the road wasn't that simple, by the way. On the way there, a young girl explained that it no longer takes five hours from Lviv to Kiev by train, but it takes many more hours. The trains and, above all, the rails have been bombed to pieces. Once in Kiev, one of my childhood friends met up. We only had 20 minutes before the curfew came into effect. Then came the night and the air alarms. In Ukraine, I met ministers and colleagues of us – various members of various committees. I'll get back to that. The 2020s have made it difficult for us to look back to take an approach and look forward. At first we were struck by a pandemic that was more extensive than any of us could think, and when we thought it had calmed down, 2022 was the year we woke up on 24 February with a new world order. So far, it is difficult to see all the consequences of Russia's vile attack war in Ukraine, but one thing we can see right now is that food production in both Ukraine and Russia will be affected. As a result, those who are hungry today will become even more hungry. Even more people will starve, not only in Ukraine and Russia, but also in Africa and the Middle East. This, in turn, will contribute to even more wars and conflicts in the world. Had I continued to be active in the post-election government policy, I would have chosen to keep a close eye on Africa and the Middle East and the developments that are taking place there in the wake of both the pandemic and the war. Madam President, I would like Let's take a little look back at what the world looks like now that we've almost cut off a quarter of the century. An increasing proportion of the world's poor live in conflict zones. At the beginning of 2020, the OECD estimated that three quarters of the world's people living in extreme poverty live in conflict-affected or fragile states. We know that freedom of expression has declined in all regions of the world since the mid-00s. Freedom on the Internet is also decreasing, as political leaders are using this opportunity to monitor people and spread propaganda. Authoritarian regimes are strengthening their grip on the media, and the number of countries that are safe for journalists to work in is decreasing. Every year since 2006, more countries have gone backwards in their democratic development compared to the number of countries that have become more democratic. We also see how civil society becomes more difficult to operate, especially those organisations and people who work for gender equality, trade union issues, LGBTI issues, the environment and land rights. The pandemic made an already serious humanitarian situation more difficult. Now more than ever, we need cooperation, both multilaterally and between Sweden and other countries, in aid. We also need aid that is smart and effective. From a Swedish perspective, we will ensure that every penny of tax is used correctly; there are probably no major political differences between the parties here today. We can also feel reasonably confident that Swedish aid is of a good standard. It was assessed as late as 2019 by OECD-Dac, which concluded that it is of very good quality. In fact, it's world class. Madam President, I would like We stand up for humanitarian and long-term development aid, which contributes to greater equality, reduced hunger, reduced hunger, reduced corruption and fewer conflicts. It also increases trade union rights, supports democracy development and contributes to a more sustainable, stable and secure world. In this way, we also contribute to a better and safer Sweden. Madam President, I would like Speaking of security, let me return to Borodjanka, Makariv, Butja, and Irpin. I have walked around there with councillors and met the front soldiers who were involved in fighting back the Russian attack and survivors of the civilian population. My name is Magnusson, told me a man. Isn't it unusual for a Ukrainian to be named Magnusson? He said that his grandfather was an ethnic Swede who belonged to an ethnic Swedish minority outside St. Petersburg, or Leningrad, and was executed in one of Stalin's purges. The Magnusson I met told me that his apartment was completely destroyed, that his mother had been burned alive in one of the Russian attacks and that his daughter had stopped talking because she was in shock. She was shocked because she had had to hide in the bathroom while the Russian troops established a fire position in the living room. So her home became a scene of battle. The conversation ended with him saying that they now had to flee – perhaps to Sweden. Maybe it was their family's destiny to end up here. From another house in Makariv, dead bodies are still being dug out. Ivan lost his entire apartment, and not only that – the entire five-storey building was completely extended. This was in Irpin. We were walking around in the ashes on the fifth floor. The roof was not left in what was once his living room and library. There he had once had 1,500 books. Of this, only ashes and pieces of rock remained. But he also said that he was happy that the whole family had survived. Ivan goes back to Irpin twice a week to feed stray dogs and cats, who have also been victims of the war. He's kidding all the time. It's something you meet all over Ukraine – humor is part of the resistance and resistance struggle in the country. Along the Butja front, soldiers came forward and told of how they defeated the invasion forces. In the burned-out tanks you could still see traces of everything that the Russians have plundered. The commander made a couple of Soviet jokes with a Ukrainian dispute. Then he asked me, "Do you know what SKR is?" I told him I knew it and asked him how he knew what SKR is. He said they'd love to, once they've won the war, continue to cooperate with SKR. They have had aid projects in the past. He said it's great with the Swedish communiqué. It's great to move power down, because it reduces corruption. He said that these joint projects and the Swedish aid must continue after the victory. They say that Sweden has been an incredibly good friend of Ukraine, and they mention both current government and former bourgeois governments. Ministers and civilians as well as MEPs – in principle all – highlighted the Swedish model of decentralisation. What was also highlighted by everyone was the need for more weapons to face the threat of the Russian offensive currently under way. Everyone in the Kiev region is relieved that they could fight back the Russian attack, but everyone also has a stomachache when they think about the situation in Mariupol. As I said, this is my last development policy debate – I hope. I would like to express my thanks to the parliamentary administration, to the staff of the committee and, not least, to the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, who has the good taste of coming from Borås. I would also like to thank all my colleagues in the committee, although some certainly prefer to be called colleagues. We have always had good debates with each other, and we have always had good talks. I would particularly like to thank the chairman of the committee. Kenneth G Forslund is a politician we need but not always deserve. He is calm and methodical and usually has great patience with personalities like me. I also think that he is handling the committee very well when various proposals are made. He also respects the opposition in a good way, which makes us all grow. Madam President, I would like Finally, the President of Estonia once said that his political goal is for Estonia to become a normal and boring Nordic country. Let this be even our vision! Step by step we try from all the different parties, with our different starting points, to do what we think is right for Sweden and the world.
i-UmgTVt7CRcdairMwbvDmBr	Madam President, I would like I thank Anders Österberg for the account of his trip to Ukraine today. It feels like everything is going backwards in the world, although we who work with development issues know that very good things are achieved thanks to aid. Moreover, without aid, everything would have looked even worse. In the wake of the pandemic, poverty and hunger increase as well as men's violence against women. Fewer children go to school, especially girls. Democratic rights are declining in many countries. Climate change hits harder every year. This terrible development is increasing since Putin started his war of aggression against Ukraine. Since the government announced that they will use the aid line to fund the reception of refugees, I have been overwhelmed by e-mails, telephone calls and messages on social media from civil society organisations, aid organisations and committed citizens. We know how badly the weakest in the world will suffer if we withdraw 20% of the aid, which would have gone to them, but now instead goes back to the Swedish cash register – a cash register that pays for people with summer cottages not to go to them to flush in the toilet and that pays for the companies to earn a large amount of money on low teacher density and joy certificates. Madam President, I would like A person working in a global humanitarian organisation asked me if the government and the Social Democrats are not aware of what the major reduction in aid to countries in need will mean. I cannot answer for the Social Democrats but simply ask Mr Österberg: do the Social Democrats understand what this reduction will mean?
i-WmSwtVt2XA65NgvDbHxSER	Madam President, I would like Then I understand that Yasmine Posio is happy to live in a country where we have had a social democratic-led government since 2014 and where, thanks to good finances and good economy, the aid budget has increased by 15.7 billion since 2014. This year the aid framework increased by SEK 5 billion. Now we are forced, because of a disgusting Russian attack war, to make certain calculations. However, as many others have asked for, we are setting a ceiling for these bills of about SEK 9 billion, which is very important. Hopefully, the Russian attack will be fought back and Ukraine will win the war. In this way, we will not have to use this money either. I would also like to point out that it goes without saying that we are protecting the most vulnerable and the poorest countries. That is why Africa, for example, remains among the priority areas. That is also why aid to Ukraine and Eastern Europe continues to be provided. Butja has been one of the worst areas. One local councillor told us that about 70 percent of the civilians killed there had been shot at close range with gunshots in the head. This woman, who had given birth to two twins, buried her husband on Friday. She asked: Will Sweden be able to give priority to receiving more refugees? Can I escape to Sweden? What's your answer to her, Yasmine Posio? How does the Left Party want to finance the reception of refugees?
i-EeoqgU4cN9v26xCqqrJZTM	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Anders Österberg for his reply, although it is worrying that international solidarity, which is an important part of the labour movement, is so easily ironed out despite the fact that according to the Minister for Finance the Swedish finances are strong. I pointed out in my previous speech that there can be a lot of tax deductions for people with high incomes, for example, so that they do not have to wash their Armani shirts themselves. So there are other ways of financing the reception of refugees. We believe that this reception of refugees is self-evident on the part of the Left Party. We have always stood up concretely for refugees who have come to Sweden, and we are doing so even now for those who come from Ukraine. Now it is not only the calculations for the reception of refugees that are being criticised, but also the lack of transparency. We now see that we have been right in our criticism. The government has gone from calculating the cost per person in the reception system to SEK 61 000 to now suddenly calculating it to SEK 121 000. In addition, since 2015, the government has always forecasted the number of refugees higher than it actually will be. This happens at a time when the world's need for a just, equal and equal world is greater than it has been for a long time. It happens at a time when international solidarity is most needed, just as Anders Österberg highlighted in his response to me, and when the needs are also in place in Ukraine. Madam President, I would like I and the civil society organisations are wondering with me what will be done to improve transparency, so that we do not have so great discrepancies in costs and so that we do not have to break agreements concluded with countries and aid organisations.
i-7VJtYg5biauD1jbANEfRDj	Madam President, I would like I put a question to the left-wing Member. I didn't hear an answer. How does the Left Party want to finance the increasing reception of refugees? I heard you want to find alternative sources to finance it, but not who. What the Social Democratic Government is doing is following a regulatory framework that is fully in line with OECD-Dac. I would add that I hope that this will not have to be used. I share Yasmine Posios's analysis that we need to be a strong Swedish voice in the world. We differ in that I claim that we still are – thanks to the fact that we have a good Swedish economy that makes Swedish aid grow in SEK and the long term. We still stand by the 1% target, which is also very important to do, especially now that aid is being called into question from many quarters. This is temporary. We hope it will pass, and I think it will. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank Yasmine Posio for her great commitment to people here in Sweden and in the world.
i-CS1mQUMD5CiFBxPE87ojZn	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by doing one of the most annoying things you might have to do as a Member of Parliament, namely to say that I have been wrong. This relates precisely to the payments from the aid. I have argued – not in this House, but, for example, in a debate with Olle Thorell – that during the last parliamentary term the government communicated to Parliament that it had an agreement to limit aid and have a ceiling of 8%. It's not true. It's something I'd had to do. I was wrong and will not claim it again. That's it. The patch is torn off! So to the point, which also relates to the precise statements of aid that have been announced! There are historically large estimates of up to one fifth of the Swedish aid budget, Madam President. This is happening in a situation where it is not only the war in Ukraine that demands Swedish solidarity with vulnerable people and with those who suffer from war, conflict, distress and oppression, but where we also see that aid is needed in the rest of the world. We have a startling food crisis. We have enormous needs after the pandemic. Hundreds of millions risk slipping back into poverty. We have ongoing conflicts in Afghanistan, Yemen and the Horn of Africa. One could imagine that it is extremely difficult to say that we are now going to take away money. I think most of us feel that although aid cannot do everything, it is precisely in this situation that it is most needed. In this situation, it is chosen to make large bills on the part of the government. It is also the case that, proportionally, this affects bilateral aid more than anything else. For several years, the government has given financial priority to multilateral aid. That is where the major elements of growth have taken place. It is now the case that savings are affecting precisely the bilateral Swedish aid and the organisations that work to build Swedish values in the world. Here I want straight answers from the government. How do you look at this? How has it been established that this is precisely the priority to be made? Why does it need to be such a big bill? Why don't you hold back at this point?
i-VBhonLGQkaDGw8oLoQXwf2	Madam President, I would like Magnus Ek says he admits he was wrong. It is not uncommon for the opposition to be wrong, at least we think as a government party. It also belongs to a democracy. You think we're wrong sometimes, and we think you're wrong sometimes. That is also why we do not always agree. With regard to the settlements of aid, the ambition is that the most vulnerable people should not be significantly affected. At the same time as this happens, we must also be able to support and pay for the thousands of women and children who are currently fleeing Ukraine. We are following the OECD-DAC regulatory framework that exists.
i-GQ7q36vgWeXVTmVg5kNt8W	Madam President, I would like Here's a thought error. It's not like Dac says we have to make these bills. You have to do them. We have agreed and compromised on the possibility of making such accounts. There is a reasonableness in that in certain situations, for example when we receive groups that will root themselves in Sweden, work and send money back to their local communities via transfers. It is indirectly very effective aid. However, I am not so sure that we are in that situation, but we have to deal with a situation in which, of course, we should welcome Ukrainian refugees. We have a historically broad consensus on this in Parliament; no one disagrees. What this conflict is about is whether we have to finance it through aid. And must we at this point, before we are sure how many people come to Sweden, raise the money? Even if the settlements are not realised, you have to start saving now. Aid organisations may cancel projects. Those who work with Swedish aid at Sida and our other aid authorities can pull the handbrake. Projects that we have announced we want to be part of will not happen. What Anders Österberg did in the last shift was to paint at best a rather mean straw man. The conflict does not apply if we are to show solidarity with Ukrainian refugees, because there we agree. What the conflict is about is whether we need to make historically large settlements. I know you get it, but the question is whether you should be in a situation where the needs are historically great around the world. Let me stress that we must listen to those who are working on this, and bilateral aid is particularly hard hit. It is good to protect humanitarian aid, but when it comes to the example of Anders Österberg who has cooperated with his Swedish colleagues in SKR, it is precisely that type of project, although in other countries, that is cancelled. Why do we have to make such large bills?
i-6gqzsTdzx5otzBe4Lh7qTK	Madam President, I would like The aid framework has increased by SEK 5 billion due to the good Swedish economy. We have managed the pandemic perfectly well, and the companies work even better. The government has announced that these 5 billion will make further investments in health, climate and humanitarian aid and increase the geographical allocations. Humanitarian aid will remain, but the rest will have to be postponed a little. According to the OECD-DAC regulatory framework, you can count off 4 billion, and we choose to comply with this agreed regulatory framework. This allows us both to receive thousands of women, children and men from Ukraine and to remain one of the largest donors in the world. It is Sweden, Norway and the Netherlands, I think, that reach the 1% target, and Sweden continues to do so. In addition, five countries reach the 0.7 % target. I share Magnus Ek's basic idea that it is very important to stand up for the 1% target. Let us continue to do so. This is only temporary. It'll be better later.
i-4rQZiPwktqd3Gbt67nG1VF	Madam President, I would like We live in an increasingly dangerous time. Russia's invasion of Ukraine causes the security situation to deteriorate dramatically in our neighbourhood. The European security regime is in question. A democracy in Europe has been invaded by an authoritarian state that seeks to deprive it of its right to freedom and self-determination. There are strong suspicions of serious war crimes, including rapes and mass killings of civilians. Putin's warfare has also already resulted in millions of people being forced into flight, either within Ukraine's borders or to neighbouring countries, including Sweden. We now see even more clearly that the EU's dependence on Russian oil and gas is an environmental problem, but above all a security policy problem. We need to change our energy policy. It is renewable in terms of safety and environmental sustainability. We simply cannot continue to depend on authoritarian states and continue to pump money into Putin's war fund. The war in Ukraine also has other major consequences in a very unstable and vulnerable world. We see fuel prices and food prices rising, and now there are protests in countries such as Yemen and Sudan where people are already suffering on the verge of starvation. We are in danger of a global famine, which will also affect countries that are already hard hit by conflicts, poverty and climate change. In such a world, where democracy is also increasingly threatened and curtailed, more global solidarity is needed, not less. The Green Party is therefore proposing an increase in aid to 1.25% of GDP. We need a safer world, and we need to help each other. In addition, we say no to the government's accounts. We believe that the counting of aid should be minimised, and during our time in government with the Social Democrats we limited this. Unfortunately, however, it now seems to be completely blown away. Sweden will continue to pursue a feminist foreign policy that focuses on women's rights, political participation, economic empowerment, influence in peace work, freedom from violence and the right to reproductive health. Respect for women's and girls' rights and opportunities needs to be increased. More women should be involved in making the most important decisions. Sweden has and will continue to play a leading role in solving the global climate crisis. We do this by living up to our own climate promises and reaching zero emissions by 2035, but also by helping other countries to cope with climate change. Sweden will help countries protect sensitive areas against the exploitation of oil and fossil gas and promote a global ban on fossil fuel subsidies. Sweden's aid should be sustainable, strengthen democracy and equip communities to reduce poverty and vulnerability. It will meet the climate challenge, counter corruption and push for peace and stability in the world in line with the global sustainability goals of Agenda 2030. Sweden should maintain at least 1% in aid, and in this difficult situation it should be increased. It is time to take a step forward in this difficult time, not a step back. I support all the reservations expressed by the Green Party, but I call for the approval of reservation 14.
i-RognoqY1VtvH9YB61VfFg4	Madam President, I would like Today we were told that the Green Party wants to increase aid to 1.25% of the UK. We also heard that in today's speech. It was odd that there wasn't much to see without sneaking it out. So this is an increase of several billions, 13 to be precise. It gives a total of well over 60 billion. Instead, we want to prioritise Sweden's already huge aid and focus aid where it is most needed and do the most good, solve corruption problems, hook arms with other actors and think a little more innovatively. But before I jump to any conclusions, I ask Janine Alm Ericson: How does the Green Party intend to finance these 13 billion? Where's the money going to be taken?
i-2D6CQC8Q7MCAkzXUEncznf	Madam President, I would like There were quite a few findings about what Swedish aid looks like, and that is exactly where we need to be. Swedish aid is world-class. It strengthens countries and people and provides both communities and individuals with help and greater resilience. In an article where news is brought out, it is not possible to reason as in a whole debate or in a series of seminars. But we see urgent increased needs. If you look up any newspaper any day, you can see that international cooperation to help and support is constantly increasing. Like the Moderates, we are in the process of writing our follow-up motion to the government's budget bill, so I will have to answer for a few days. What the government will cut back on is precisely long-term development cooperation. It is good that there is still humanitarian aid, but it is a very expensive aid. It's the very last straw to make people just survive. We want to be involved in building strong, resilient societies, and then long-term cooperation is desperately needed. Sweden has an extremely strong economy. We see that there are resources to take off. There are re-priorities to be made, but above all there is an economic space. I can understand that this can be difficult to understand for the Moderates, who just want space to lower taxes. What is your response to the great needs of the world?
i-YPgtBF9FgFBfuTRM2jj4ZH	Madam President, I would like The Green Party has previously made it clear that it is behind, among other things, a contingency tax, i.e. that the financing of a strengthened defence should come from an increased tax. The Moderates consider this unreasonable. I think many people out there, who may be watching the debate now, already feel: no more taxes. Sweden already has among the world's highest tax burdens, with the world's highest marginal taxes. Companies are already on their knees after a long pandemic of restrictions and now electricity prices, which for many have quadrupled. Gas and diesel prices affect anyone who does not have access to the metro. I look forward to it once we have an answer to the question of how to finance the 13 billion. I think it is an important answer, and it is important that the voters receive it. I very much hope that it is not intended that the increase in aid will take place through the tax bill.
i-Pfr29RMy4GDxYApHm6Bwxf	Madam President, I would like I note that Helena Storckenfeldt does not answer my question and does not talk about the ambitions of aid, which she herself requested from me, but rather it became a tax debate. I find that deeply unworthy. Sweden is a rich country. We are mostly five-in-top, but sometimes we sink down to somewhere between five and ten, basically in all international indices. We are nowhere near having a difficulty like the one we now see in many places in the world. The question is, who is it that the Moderates want to betray? Who should not be given the opportunity for a better world? What part of Agenda 2030 is it that the Moderates do not want to be fulfilled? I know it will have to be a rhetorical question because this is my closing line. I very much hope that the Moderates will return with the answer to that question, for this is a shame.
i-PrPCvSbB48dmJYqpEpVBqB	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating a report dealing with a wide range of issues in the field of social services and matters closely related to it. In recent years, social services have been characterised by an increasing mission, with more people needing help during part of their lives. At the same time, staff shortages have become acute in several areas, affecting both continuity and quality. If social services are allowed to deteriorate due to a shortage of staff and financial resources as the mission increases, there will be a lack of welfare. People have a good right to expect social services to fulfil their mission as an ultimate safety net and to provide support and assistance to those who fail. Madam President, I would like Social services and their employees perform a more important and difficult job than they receive recognition for. To further strengthen the position, competence and authority of the profession in this work is therefore an important political task. Support and supervision, as well as opportunities for specialist and further training, strengthen the skills of the social care staff and the second part of the social services. A long-term investment is needed to strengthen skills. Following proposals from us and other parties during the parliamentary year 2020/21, an announcement has been given to the government about competence requirements in social services. The government should urgently come back to this and add measures to support the social secretaries. In support of vulnerable children, social services and the social secretary have a crucial role to play. Their tasks include making difficult and intervening decisions that can be life-changing for the individual child. Experience, continuity and trust are important prerequisites for this work. The government should therefore work to ensure that the social services are an attractive employer offering competitive conditions so that they can recruit and retain social secretaries. Social secretaries and representatives involved in legal proceedings concerning children should be well acquainted with children's needs and behaviour. This is particularly important when professionals should talk directly to the child, especially if the child is a victim of crime. In order to strengthen the child perspective, the government should review how a specific education can be set up for social services personnel involved in legal proceedings involving children. That is why, Madam President, on behalf of the Christian Democrats, I would like to call for the approval of reservation number 8. Madam President, I would like The Social Affairs Committee's report proposes three announcements. The Christian Democrats support all of these. After exercising, among other things, from us, there is a proposal for an announcement, an invitation, from the Riksdag to the Government to review the possibilities of offering coordinator support and a permanent government contact to families and other relatives of children with disabilities. For families who need help and support in different ways because their children have a disability, very many government contacts are common. These are contacts that they themselves most often need to coordinate and where there is too often no continuity of contacts. Therefore, it is important to get to coordinator support and a permanent authority contact for families who are in this situation. I am therefore pleased with the proposed announcement. The committee also has an appeal to the government on another very important issue. The state's responsibility for those living in different institutions is extensive. There are, unfortunately, historical examples of the state's grave failure to live up to this responsibility. Perhaps the most obvious example is the Odontological Experimental Activities of the Medical Board at Vipeholm Hospital in the mid 1900s. The committee notes that the Historical Museum at Lund University has launched a multi-annual research project on care at Vipeholm, with the intention of clarifying the reasons behind the increased death rates that were there in the early 1940s. The committee is, of course, very positive about these scientific efforts, and we share the hope expressed by the Minister for Social Affairs when she was called to account in this House on 23 March this year that this research will be followed by other projects that may shed light on the activities of other institutions. However, it seems to the committee that it is possible for the state to take a more active responsibility in order to get work done to examine how the activities of various state institutions were carried out in the 20th century and to clarify matters of mismanagement and abuse. Such work can contribute to greater transparency and awareness of this problematic part of the past and thus also contribute to the non-repetition of something similar in the future. It can also provide a comprehensive basis for further work on questions about how the state relates to historically committed wrongs. Consequently, according to a unanimous committee, the government should consider whether and, if so, how the state can act in order to have a review of the way in which the activities of various state institutions were conducted in the 20th century, with a view to clarifying the issue of mismanagement and abuse. The basis for the committee's unanimous opinion is the motion for a resolution by the Christian Democrats and the Liberals. I am pleased with all three proposals for announcements from the committee.
i-8thWi8QCydqwAGXbcFoano	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the work of social services. First of all, I would like to endorse reservation number 27. I would like to begin my speech by telling a story. It's about Nils growing up in a family where Mom Johanna is mentally ill and Dad Ben drinks too much. Dad Ben gets aggressive when he's drunk and beats Johanna. This causes Nils to worry at night and wet his pants. In preschool Nils is perceived as restless, and he goes after other children. The staff at preschool still assume their responsibilities and report their concerns. Social services, which are heavily burdened, meet Mother Johanna, who clearly declares that the family does not need help. However, the meeting contributes to an improvement in the family for a short period of time. Years pass. Ben continues to abuse Johanna, who is becoming more and more unscrupulous. Nils is allowed to take care of himself but also does not want to be at home during all these constant fights. The school sees the problems only in high school, deploys additional resources and makes reports of concern. Reluctantly, the family receives contributions from social services, but the problems in the family persist. Madam President, I would like Mom Johanna doesn't dare tell you about the violence in the family. She's afraid of losing the kids. Instead, Nils becomes the local criminal gang involved in theft and drugs. When Nils is 16 years old, he is an established criminal and has been in a youth home on two different occasions. Nils has then returned to the suburbs where the gang is waiting. We don't know what's going on with Mom Johanna. Madam President, I would like What do I want to say about this story? Well, that we can recognize the problems quite early and that the efforts are being made too late despite the fact that the signals have already been seen in preschool. The result of inadequate early intervention is that it costs a great deal more, both human and economic, when we need to take coercive measures late in life. Children and families in need of support shall not be subjected to arbitrary action. Social work should also be based on proven experience. Madam President, I would like It is therefore important that the investigation into a new social services law is clear that preventive work and systematic monitoring must be prioritised and based on evidence. In Nils' case, a systematic follow-up of the concerns that still came in during the journey would probably have led to the introduction of previous measures into the family. With the right evidence-based methods in the preventive work, social services would also have had a greater opportunity to provide Johanna with support and relief in parenthood. Above all, it would have been easier for Mom Johanna to tell about her and the children's vulnerability if there had been a build-up of trust between Johanna and social services. Madam President, I would like When we raise the requirements, which we need to do, the staff of the social services need to have a high level of competence and are continuously offered further training. In 2014, therefore, a requirement was introduced to be a socionomist in order to carry out certain tasks in the field of social services. To support the municipalities to raise staffing and competence, the government has made special efforts. The years 2016 – 2019 SEK 210 million was invested annually for increased staffing and SEK 40 million to raise skills. Madam President, I would like It is positive that the municipalities have worked more actively with the issue. However, in 2019 half of the municipalities still felt that they had difficulty meeting the skills requirements. In contact with trade union representatives in social services, there is much talk about the workload and vulnerability of the profession. Many new graduates do not have enough of their training and have to deal with difficult issues without support and guidance. Here, the municipalities have a great responsibility to create decent working conditions. However, there is also a need for adequate education of higher education institutions and universities in the field of social work. Madam President, I would like Interaction between different functions and authorities is crucial to ensure a high level of protection for children and young people at risk. Right now, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare and the Swedish National Agency for Education have a mission to strengthen collaboration between pupil health, child and youth psychiatry and social services. The work is very much about building a whole around children who are in need of input from several actors. Cooperation between the authorities is ongoing. However, to be able to have fixed structures at work requires a change in legislation regarding confidentiality and organisation. Cooperation should be for the benefit of the individual, and then different organisations and different confidentiality rules should not be an obstacle. In the story of Nils, greater cooperation between school and social services would have created a better safety net around Nils. Madam President, I would like Men's violence against women goes on all the time, every day and every night, and society's efforts must be twisted up to stop both physical and psychological violence. We men have a great and crucial role to play in standing up for these vulnerable women, doing what we can and not standing silently and accepting the situation. It is positive that the report contains many motions on how to strengthen this work. In this year's budget, the Government has also provided significant financial support to municipalities and women's shelters to improve the quality and knowledge of this important area. Madam President, I would like In a forthcoming bill, the government strengthens the child perspective for children who accompany violent guardians to sheltered housing. Children's needs for school, health care and access to their own social services officers must be met. For Nils and Johanna in the story, an early move to sheltered housing might have changed everything. To avoid living with violence and harassment would have helped Johanna to cope with being a mother and perhaps gave Nils an opportunity to concentrate on the school. Madam President, I would like All in all, I would like to say that those who work in social services are extremely important welfare workers, just like teachers, health professionals and everyone else who works in welfare. However, social services staff are all too often left without clear guidelines and support at work. I would therefore like to point out that the social services of municipalities need to be highlighted and discussed more, just as we are doing here today. The Government has seen the needs of the welfare sector and has provided historically increased state subsidies to the municipalities. This gives municipalities an opportunity to increase staffing and thereby reduce the high workload of social services. It is also by having enough well-trained social workers that we are getting better at prevention. What happened in Nils' family should not have to happen if we are prepared to work preventively – a tt do what we know costs a little more in the start but saves the more at the end.
i-Ac5dtbLAik3ewUWgi4m78F	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Mr President, for your speech. I very much share the honourable Member's view that there is so much more to be done in early action. This requires everyone in school, social services and civil society to be there. There are so many shortcomings and we should do better. Is it the honourable Member's view that this term of office has had the energy and power to influence and ensure that social services have gained better opportunities? Has it been driven by the government to help social services employees, social secretaries, to improve working conditions and the situation in terms of skills provision, opportunities for further training and, not least, to be able to work without needing protection? It's about not having to ask for a protected identity because you work as a social security secretary. This is the situation today for many social secretaries. They enter the profession and need to change their lives and those of their family in order to continue working. What has happened for quite a number of years, perhaps 15 to 20 years, is a development that is not positive. We need social services for many more missions, and the social secretaries are right in the middle of this. They're getting a tougher situation. I would like to say that the government has not had energy on this issue. What has happened in the social care of children and young people has been forced by the opposition from the government. If we look at the other part concerning the social secretaries: Does the honourable Member think that the government has had power and energy and has done important things for the social secretaries this parliamentary term?
i-Ft5nAmtAmCW67fpMbXzDP2	Mr President, I am sorry, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. This is the first time I have been in the speaker's chair when the President-in-Office of the Council is chairing the sitting. I talked about the competence and quality of social services, Acko Ankarberg Johansson, and I just said in my speech that we partly last term of office and partly this term of office have contributed funds from the government to strengthen the quality of social work. It is also a question of being able to increase staffing. We have also made demands since 2014 to be the lowest socionomist. It is a foundation, I think, which still places demands on the municipalities. Then there is a great responsibility, Mr President-in-Office, which it is important that the municipalities take on. I said in my speech that we have now provided quite a lot of money in welfare billions to go to municipalities and regions, and it is, of course, the municipalities that have the competence to ensure that the funds are used properly. I have a lot of contact with the municipalities and social services, and I see that there are investments being made. But as Acko Ankarberg Johansson also says, the workload has become much greater in recent years. I believe that we all, both the government, the opposition in parliament and the municipalities, have a responsibility to pursue these issues. And the municipalities will do their work. Nevertheless, I think that we have had discussions in this House that are taking the matter forward, and there have been many interesting proposals that we are working on in the government. Not least in the opposition, you have pushed this issue well, so I think we are doing a good job together.
i-6ibhkzATRB6JxMJwMmngKD	Mr. Old President! For me, too, this is the first time I have spoken through the President of the Age, so we have to fight a little so that we really say the right thing. I am grateful for the honourable Member's reply, and we agree that we have done a great deal from the committee. These are announcements, and we have good discussions. It is a very competent committee, which is involved in the issues. But my question was: what has the government done this term of office? You can't just watch and see things get worse and worse. The social secretaries are currently in a very vulnerable situation. We have also been able to see that social services are being used to influence Sweden's security, which is a very serious issue. The social secretaries are in the middle of all this. Every day, they will ensure that they provide support and assistance to people who need them while at the same time being subjected to pressure with threats and violence that affect them personally. I do not think the government has done enough – far from it. I am fully aware that the municipalities are responsible for social services. That is how it should be; we agree on that. But if it is not enough and there are shortcomings, a government must step in. Otherwise, we wouldn't have to have a government. In that case, we could only have one finance department to send out our tax money, and then the municipalities would have to solve the rest. We still have departments responsible for different things. We have a Minister of Social Affairs. I assume, then, that we will also look at the problems and shortcomings that exist and see what we can do from the national level to support and ensure that things actually get better. I lack government action on social services, skills provision and the situation of social secretaries. And it's serious. I would rather appeal to the Member, who is still a member of the Government Party, to do what you can. We all need to do that, but not least you Social Democrats need to increase the pressure so that the government carries out at least what Parliament has said.
i-SaJpLdkHChJAGLM3tS6xTk	Mr. Age President and Acko Ankarberg Johansson! I said earlier at the turn of the line that resources have been spent both during the previous term of office and during this term of office. We can agree on that. Of course, if that is enough, you can always question it. There is always more money that can be provided to provide the opportunity for a better job; that is how it is in all activities. But we have thus provided funds under social democratic rule. It would be interesting if Acko Ankarberg Johansson could tell us how much the bourgeois government has contributed to social services during previous terms of office. Then we can always agree that more needs to be done and that we need to provide more funds. But I'm quite clear that the skills are out in the business as well to change it. The support we can give is, of course, through legislation, and that is what we are working on quite hard in committee together. After all, we have a bill coming up now, and there will certainly be more proposals to improve the situation and the regulatory framework for social services. I therefore hope that this will be an improvement. But, as I said, it would also be interesting to hear what the bourgeois government did during the previous term of office. We didn't get an answer to that.
i-DWyvgHkQJZFZytjyTWZw2y	Mr. Old President! This is the last more comprehensive debate we have this parliamentary term on the so important issues of social services. This makes it necessary today to look back a little on the years that have passed since the last elections. What has happened nationally when it comes to social services? The short answer is: far too little. Neither the previous S-MP government nor the current purely social democratic government have shown any further momentum. On the contrary, there have been few proposals and initiatives from the government. Only a few propositions have landed at Parliament's table. And the proposals that have come have been meagre, very meagre. I can take the government proposal Language requirement – participation in adult education in Swedish for immigrants (sfi) for the right to subsistence support, as an example. This bill, which we discussed last year, added to the Social Services Act that, if necessary, the individual should, as a basic rule, participate in Swedish for immigrants in order to be able to receive income support. The egg did not really mean much more than that the existing practice was codified by law. We Moderates firmly believe that it is not at all enough to require people to participate in the SFI in order to be entitled to subsistence support. The demands for effort and performance are also needed for people who have immigrated to Sweden to quickly learn decent Swedish and thus get the most important key into the Swedish labour market and to become an integral part of Swedish society. Mr. Old President! With 1.3 million Swedes who are currently not self-sufficient and with long-term unemployment the highest ever, the need for a restored work line is acute. It needs to pay better to work. A premium ceiling is needed to ensure that contributions cannot be stacked on each other to the mild degree that you actually lose from taking a job. Measures are also needed – as the Moderates are proposing in the report we are debating – to ensure that support for livelihoods, i.e. social assistance in the community, does not undermine the driving forces of work. In reservation 20, we propose to Moderates, together with the Christian Democrats, that new arrivals who receive start-up compensation should not also be entitled to supplementary support. What is also needed in general is more restrictive rules on supply aid and, not least, clear requirements. That is why, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to endorse Amendment No 15, which firstly proposes a more restrictive and uniform management of supply aid across the country. Municipalities should not be able to deviate fundamentally from the national norm for financial assistance. Secondly, the reservation contains proposals for an amendment to the Social Services Act so that it becomes clear that those who receive subsistence support and who are fit for work should be obliged to be at the disposal of the labour market throughout the country. The passive social democrats' contribution line must be replaced by an active working line. Mr. Old President! The Parliament, in clear contrast to the government, has been particularly active and proactive during its term of office in matters relating to social services. This applies not least to issues relating to socially vulnerable children. We Moderates took a so-called committee initiative early in their term of office to strengthen the protection of children cared for under the law with special provisions on the care of young people, LVU. When the government did not put forward any sharp legislative proposals despite the fact that the final report from the Investigation on Forced Care for Children and Young People came back in 2015, the Moderates acted and gathered a majority here in the Riksdag for legislative changes that strengthen the protection of placed children. The work continues, Mr. Old President, with lex Little Heart in order to ensure that what happened to four-year-old Esmeralda will not happen again. Esmeralda, the girl who was called, Little Heart, was found dead just ten months after she returned to her biological parents. The best interests of the individual child must outweigh the rights of biological parents to their child. We Moderates will not give us until Swedish legislation guarantees that the best interests of the individual child are always put first. In a few weeks' time, Mr President-in-Office, we will return to lex Lilla's heart in a special report and debate. I now highlight it most as an example of how the Riksdag has taken responsibility and shown leadership in the absence of it from the government. What sums up this parliamentary term is that the parliament has run the government ahead of it. I mentioned earlier that the government submitted only a few individual proposals to Parliament regarding the work of social services and the Social Services Act. On the other hand, Parliament's announcements, i.e. strong appeals to the government, have been numerous. In connection with last year's report on social services, for example, we made a total of twelve announcements to the government about, among other things, skills requirements for social services staff, evidence-based methods of social services child surveys, and measures to improve the education and health of children placed on the ground. Today, Mr President, the committee is proposing three more announcements to the government, announcements already well described by my colleague Acko Ankarberg Johansson from the Christian Democrats, which are therefore about the neglect and abuse of Vipeholm and other state institutions, about children in shelter and about coordination support and permanent contact with the authorities for relatives. Family members of children with disabilities are currently pulling a very large load. By offering coordinator support and a permanent government contact, we believe that the life of relatives of children with disabilities could be somewhat easier. Finally, Mr. Age President, I would like to thank the social services staff around Sweden's 290 municipalities for the fantastic efforts you are making. You work hard, all year round, to prevent social problems and to support and help people who for a wide variety of reasons are in need of community support and help. You deserve and need better conditions, including in the form of a new Social Services Act. It will not happen this parliamentary term, not with this government, but in 136 days Sweden can have a new government – a government with the power and ability to get Sweden in order.
i-NQL7G6t8Fw7Sge4EbYvKdw	Mr. Old President! Now, in the Social Affairs Committee, we have once again entered the Chamber. It almost feels like we're more here than in our committee room these days. The Social Affairs Committee is energetic, Mr. Age President. Today, we are proposing three more announcements to the government which this time concern the work of social services. We Swedish democrats have been running one of these announcements since 2012, namely that parents with a disabled child should be entitled to coordinator support and a permanent government contact. We know that parents of children with disabilities are more at risk of worse physical and mental health than other parents. Parents spend an unnecessary amount of time on administration vis-à-vis different authorities. This problem has also not been reduced as the government has completely failed to create the conditions for the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to handle not least the nursing allowance and the additional cost compensation in a satisfactory manner. Many families have had to wait unnecessarily long for decisions, and many families have also received reduced support – something that Minister Shekarabi has claimed for me in this House was not the intention. After all, we still have the same problem. Here we also see that parental responsibility has come to play a major role in assessing the right to compensation. Both the authority and various organisations consider and have stated that parental responsibility is difficult to understand. Not least this breakdown further strengthens the need for support in the form of a person who can simply act as the spider in the net. It would increase security and relieve parents from the extensive administration that is largely their responsibility today, while at the same time providing work, parental role and other everyday things. It is the opinion of the Swedish Democrats that parents of children with disabilities should have the support of society so that everyday life works and so that they also have room for energy and wellbeing in an already tough everyday life. The project that has been done with coordinator support via NKA means that we should be permanent and implemented in all municipalities in the country. It should not be voluntary, but everyone should have the right to receive support. It is therefore particularly pleasing that today, together with the Christian Democrats, we have gained a majority on this issue in committee and can therefore propose this important announcement to the government. This report, Mr President-in-Office, also includes a number of important issues. I want to take this opportunity to talk about the situation of children living on sheltered accommodations. The government has had two mandates to ensure children's safety and follow-up on sheltered housing, i.e. to strengthen children's perspective. Yet we do not yet see anything concrete. Time goes by and on. Sure, we know there's work beyond the corner, but this is urgent. In today's report, the committee proposes a further announcement to the government as to how urgent we feel about this. The committee did the same last year. The Swedish Democrats want to see that if a child comes with his or her parent to a sheltered accommodation, a decision on the child should also be made. Here the law needs to be amended so that the housing effort for children is also regulated in the Social Services Act. As the child does not have a decision of his/her own, follow-up cannot be done either during or after the stay. There are also no requirements for documentation, implementation plans or risk and safety assessments. It is therefore entirely up to the staff of the sheltered accommodations to meet the needs of the children, as the lack of decisions means that the accommodations have no mission at all around the children. This means that some accommodations meet the needs of children and others do not. This, in our view, is an enormous shortcoming. Furthermore, in this report we are expressing the need to certify the country's protected accommodation in order to maintain a certain quality and competence. We also believe that there should be a national register of sheltered housing in Sweden, like what we have said when it comes to family homes. Mr. Old President! Much needs to be done when it comes to sheltered accommodations. I know that work is in progress, but I can't help but be highly critical. I am also presenting this in many debates, and it can be said again. How can it be that a party that has been in power unnecessarily many years over and over again actually fails so much, especially when it comes to real and important social problems in order to strengthen and protect the country's women – in a government that is also feminist? How can we have this vulnerability among the country's social security secretary? How can we have so many poor women? How can we have such a large proportion of women in the middle of life with mental illness? How can we have deficiencies in maternity care? How can we have an increasing group of women seeking shelter? How can we have a breakdown in the situation of parents of children with disabilities, where assistance is withdrawn and support is lacking? How can we have girls who are exposed to genital mutilation? How can Sweden lack support and protection for women who fall victim to prostitution? How can we have shortcomings in skills development in social services, which is a women-dominated occupational group? I often ask myself these questions, Mr. Old President. I also ask myself how we in Sweden can have such inadequate support from society to all those who are victims of relationship violence. We know that most of the domestic violence is done by the man against the woman. Why is it that women who are trapped in destructive conditions do not get the help and support that should be self-evident but are faced with ignorance and obstacles? We want to see a Sweden that extends on this issue. We want us to have a national plan for how society best supports and is the safety net that is needed and demanded. Mr. Old President! Many women testify to a tough journey and a lifelong struggle to get a daily life in freedom. Society as a whole needs to gain an increased understanding and knowledge of violence in close relationships. No one should be faced with the sight that what you have experienced was not so dangerous. We need to actively work towards a zero vision on this issue. There should be a basis and a plan that clearly points out the division of responsibilities, governance and coordination between social services, psychiatry, care and any non-profit organisations. There is simply a need for a solid web that captures the vulnerable and potential children. Particular attention should be paid to the methodological and structured provision of the necessary support and assistance to children. We cannot accept more women being murdered because the safety net does not exist. This issue extends across several policy areas – I am well aware of that – but not least ours where social services are an important part of it. This issue is dealt with in a simplistic way in this report and therefore cannot be called for, but I would like to support our Amendment No 28 on the issue of the development of a national register of shelters and their certification. I would like to endorse that.
i-4EjRGoG5Fvcvqkz11brNfj	Mr. Old President! Social Services are doing an incredibly important job. That has been emphasised by previous speakers here in the speaker's chair, and I fully agree. Very good work is done in social services, but it could be even better. It could be more uniform throughout the country if we had clear and uniform methods based on research. It could provide clearer decisions and clearer explanations for families who sometimes find it difficult to understand the reasons for social services decisions. I would also like to see more tools to be able to introduce some kind of intermediate obligation when volunteering is not there all the way out but when it is not about the need for such strong measures as taking care of someone. That's something I'd like to see more of. We also need to gain more knowledge and exchange of experience so that we learn from each other and constantly get better. Here there should be much more structured cooperation between different activities that work to protect our citizens in society. It is about women's shelters, about social services, about caregivers and about contacts between different activities in municipalities. Mr. Old President! There are very many who have responsibility for different parts in this area that we are talking about. There are many different authorities – MFoF, the National Board of Health and Welfare, IVO, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the social services in municipalities, schools and courts – who work with the same kind of issues. I think that is one of the reasons why it is sometimes flawed. We're not good enough at working together and being clear with each other about what's going on. That is my reason why I want to see much more clarity in how we work and how we exchange information with each other. Mr. Old President! There is work going on, but I agree with previous speakers that much more could be done. There are a lot of investigations and studies, but it's not as much a workshop. What I understand is on the table now is that the Swedish Agency for Medical and Social Assessment has been commissioned to compile the scientific data available and used in the social services in their investigation methods when it comes to children and young people. I very much hope that it provides a good basis and that it is scientific methods that are used and that, if it is not, we will ensure that it actually makes a difference and we will have good risk assessments that ensure that children do not get hurt. It is my driving force in this work. I sincerely hope that this will not be a product that just ends up on a table so that there will be no workshop. There are far too many children who suffer violence for one reason or another. Women suffer from violence. Men suffer violence. Here we also need to make sure that we work with several things at the same time. We must protect those who are victims of violence, but we must also ensure that we support those who actually use violence so that that person stops using violence. Otherwise, violence will never go away. IVO has the task of supervising our authorities. They usually do that well, but they also need to improve. And when they do, they must also be able to gather good examples where you have good methods and then teach to others so that it will be good everywhere. Children in sheltered housing must be allowed to be themselves. Children are never anyone's property, nor in a sheltered home. Therefore, children must have their own focus in the protected accommodation so that we protect both the person who needs to protect the accommodation and the child. Mr. Old President! I will now turn to another subject that does not directly concern social services – yes, it does, because otherwise it would not be in this report – and it is about international adoptions. This is a question that I experienced when I entered the Riksdag in 2018 was not so high up on the government's agenda. I noticed that there were concerns– it was not only me, but I have a colleague, a left-wing partyist, who also drew attention to this quite early – and irregularities in connection with international adoptions that had taken place in the past. I started asking questions to the government: What do we do? How are we gonna make sure this doesn't happen again? How can we support these people who have actually had their childhood stolen? My experience was that the government was not so very present but thought: No, we can't do anything, because we are waiting for an investigation in another country and can't do anything at individual level. But things have started to happen, and I hope this will be good. Because today there is actually more organised individual support, at project level, for people who are internationally adopted. There are proposals from the National Board of Health and Welfare that came just recently to make this permanent. The National Board of Health and Welfare also proposes to develop parental education and permanent support for those who are adopted to seek their own origin. Last autumn there was also a announcement that the government will investigate and clarify how we have been involved in possible irregularities in other countries to see how we have acted and what we can learn for the future. I sincerely hope that the government is able to make a workshop out of that result, because we cannot risk more children getting into irregularities. Mr. Old President! I support all the motions we have raised in the past and so on, but I am in favour of reservation 8 and I apologise for exceeding my speaking time a little.
i-PVWPQEV99fjjeaYZrSJR5j	Mr. Old President! I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Left Party's reservation 3. In early 2018, before this term of office began, SVT News noted suspected irregularities in adoptions from Chile during the 1970s and 1980s. However, the news passed quite quickly and disappeared from news headlines and television broadcasts. But there were still those who had questions and concerns, those who suspected that things had not gone right and those who had already searched for a long time. They had been looking for parents, siblings and children. For many it was not an easy task to pick up the threads in their adoptions. Falsified documents and distorted identities made it difficult. Language can also be an obstacle to the work of various documents and authorities in the country of origin. In Chile, for example, all investigation work is done in Spanish and all documents are in Spanish. What has been discovered in Chile is not only serious because of the suffering suffered by children, biological parents and adoptive parents, but also against the Convention on the Rights of the Child and children's right of origin. Mr. Old President! In Sweden there was at first no investigation about the international adoptions. We in the Left Party put forward proposals for an investigation but at first got no response. But we continued to pursue the issues of international adoptions, as the Center Party, among other things, has done well. When DN made a large and award-winning series of articles about the illegal adoptions in early 2021, the question got new momentum in the media, and the Riksdag decided during the spring of the same year on an investigation of the international adoptions to Sweden, which I am very happy about. The investigation should focus not only on adoptions from Chile but on all international adoptions. Alarm signals have come about adoptions from other countries too, although Chile as its country of origin has so far been the only one to investigate the situation. There, the authorities investigate over 600 cases of adoptions to Sweden. This is part of raising the issue, bringing redress to the victims and providing help and support on the part of society. We have a responsibility for how this has happened and for the people who have come here or have been affected by the adoptions. Mr. Old President! In 2020, the Government commissioned the Swedish Agency for Family Law and Parental Support, MFoF, to carry out a pilot project on support for adopted people in connection with the search for origin. MFoF had to use SEK 2 million in 2020 for the implementation of the assignment. That's good. The support is needed. The government has then slightly increased the funding for this support, and MFoF will continue with the support in 2022 – 2023. There is also a project with call support during the same period. That's good. But we can do more. Today there are around 60 000 internationally adopted in Sweden, according to MFoF. International adoptions started to take off in the 1960s, but they were also in the past and have continued to date. Most were adopted in the 1970s and 1980s when, at most, 1,776 persons were adopted in one year. This means that today in Sweden there are people who are adopted from other countries of all ages, from young children to pensioners. We therefore need to look at adoptions from a lifelong perspective. Those who are adopted are adopted their whole lives with everything that that means. Different stages of life have different trials, and it is important that those who so need be able to receive adequate support based on their life situation. Several studies have found an over-representation of mental ill health and social problems in the country's adults abroad. In addition, the suicide risk is higher in adopted than in the average population. These are problems that need to be taken seriously. Mr. Old President! Today, municipalities are responsible for preparing and investigating the suitability of applicants for adoption. It is also the municipalities that are responsible for following up adopted in their families. There will be many principals, and an investigation from Statskontoret in 2021, The organisation of international adoption activities, shows a lack of quality and equivalence. A few weeks ago, the National Board of Health and Welfare released a report on community support for the adopted. According to an overall analysis and assessment, the healthcare and support measures offered to adopted and their adoptive parents do not meet the needs that exist. The survey shows that adopted persons may have needs throughout their lives that can be derived from adoption. Needs may require special attention, and children and parents may need adoption-specific support. Research has shown that post-adoption support in those areas that are adoption-specific produces positive results and has linked unmet support needs to a worse outcome. The National Board of Health and Welfare reports a list of things that need to be developed, including developing a model for PAS, post adoption service. Mr. Old President! The revelations about illegal adoptions show what problematic situations adopted and relatives may face, and where there may be a need for special support and expertise beyond what I have already talked about. Adoption is a thorough and major process for all involved, and it is important that there is proper support and competence to meet these people throughout their lives. We need to develop how a state centre can be designed and function in order to provide lifelong support to adopted people. We have a responsibility to do that.
i-38Whzq6VLsTieqSTszA7rU	Mr. Old President! Today we are debating the work of social services. It is an incredibly important authority for all the children and young people who are exposed to relatives but also for guardians who for various reasons find it difficult to handle the most important task in life, namely to give their children a safe and trusting childhood. When discussing the work of social services today, it is incredibly important to highlight the situation of social security officers. Just before the terrible war in Ukraine, there was a huge campaign of influence against social services. Powers outside Sweden but definitely also in Sweden wanted to give a picture of the social services kidnapping children and selling children to people who use them sexually. It was a terrible campaign of hatred and intimidation which is also a threat to our entire democracy. We have also been able to take note of descriptions from social security officers who tell us how they have already felt threatened in their professional activities before this campaign. They have felt fear of making important and decisive decisions. During the terrible events of Easter, we could see children who, even with guardians, were out hating and threatening the police. They threw stones and behaved in a terrible way. This, too, is a threat to our entire democracy. I have worked with social services for many years. We were responsible for a national support phone aimed at government officials who had come into contact with children and young people who were exposed to honour-related violence and repression. There too, Mr President, we were told that there was a fear of making decisive decisions. They did not feel the support they wanted from managers at the local level. Unfortunately, the support they wanted from politicians was not felt either. Rather, many times they had to fight for both the right and the opportunity to make decisions that would give children and young people the freedom, security, support and protection that they are entitled to and need. For this reason, we in the Liberals believe that knowledge alone is not enough. Knowledge is extremely important. We've been talking about education. Absolutely. Every social security secretary will receive the training they need in order to do their important work. In some situations, however, one must also have a sustained structure that enables one to feel confidently that one can carry out one's vital work. Liberals therefore believe that there should be a national support structure. Local self-government is a matter of course here. This is based on social and social councils at the local level, Mr. Old President, who are asking for help. We can see this when we take part of municipalities' experiences of the gang crime that is spreading. There is a recruitment of children. A gang criminal, who had many children on his conscience, called them child soldiers. If social development is combined with the anxiety and fear that people can feel in their professional practice, the Liberals believe that this is necessary. The report also addresses the importance of setting up a national centre for missing children. When I read Försäkringskassan's report, I became even more convinced of the importance of that measure. The report states that there are 10 000 school children missing in Sweden – 10 000 children that we do not know where they are, 10 000 children that no one is looking for, 10 000 children who cannot answer where they actually are. I am not saying that all these children are in an extremely vulnerable situation and have been subjected to child marriage or genital mutilation. But I know we don't know. And that makes me deeply concerned. I often think about what happens to these children, and I think more often about why there is not a greater activity among politicians about finding out. If I had been the responsible minister, it would have been one of the first things I would have seen to follow up. Here it was about the money of welfare. I'm starting from the children, the children who are our future. The national support phone has received calls that relate to 495 children and have been identified for a few years as children who have been removed from the country. Then it is important to remember, Mr. Age President, that these are children whose parents have sought support and protection in Sweden to escape war, oppression and vulnerability. When children come here, they want to enjoy their fundamental rights and freedoms which they see other children have and which our legislation says every child should have access to. When they enjoy these rights, it will be a punishment to take the children back to their home countries and dump them there in their loneliness. I won't give up. I am going to seek support from other politicians to ensure that we really get to grips with these issues in a sufficient way. To stand and say that it is important to work for all children's right to freedom is quite simple. But it is only when we take the necessary measures that it really makes a difference. There is another frightening issue that I have been pursuing since I entered the Riksdag and which I have got Morgan Johansson to take into an investigation. Today, children's Swedish citizenship can be revoked if they have dual citizenship. I've met children who have been taken out of the country. At the same time, the guardian has pressed a button and suspended their Swedish citizenship. Then it is not as simple as the children, when they come back here, can only be entered again, but then the children can apply for asylum in the country from which they were taken out. With regard to the vital task of social services – each individual social secretary – we have a duty to ensure that they have the right conditions to do their job so that every child will feel secure to live a life in Sweden free from all forms of oppression and violence.
i-JKnjWgaecJZnLxYkDyKmng	Mr. Old President! Of course, I support all our requests, but in order to gain time, I only support reservation 10, which deals with better tools and skills in social services. Today, there are some laws and regulations that govern the work of social services but that can actually counteract the work against honour-related violence and oppression. Examples of this are the reunification standard, i.e. the standard that a family in conflict should primarily be reunited, as well as the rule that parents should always be contacted when reporting concerns. We believe that it should be considered how we can strengthen social services' opportunities to combat honour-related violence and oppression and how social services' competence in how to work with honor-related matters can be strengthened. Mr. Old President! We in the Green Party have for a long time been pushing for the Convention on the Rights of the Child to become Swedish law. Now we are there, and it becomes clearer that children are individuals of their own with their own rights. But it is not so simple that just because the Convention on the Rights of the Child has become Swedish law, all children's rights are beginning to be satisfied. Now remains the long journey to ensure that everyone who meets children, everyone who works with children, but also we who make decisions about children ensure that children's rights are implemented in all parts of our society, and in this case throughout the social services. I would also like to take this opportunity to highlight the importance of having a high level of confidence in social services as a child and that it should feel natural to turn there. We will come back to this issue when we debate and decide on the lex Little Heart. Mr. Old President! Much remains to be done to improve the life situation of people with disabilities. One example that concerns the Social Services Act is our suggestion that you as an individual should be able to contribute to calling for a coordinated individual plan, a so-called SIP. Today, if you need help and support from both the region and the municipality, you can wait until any actor acts and calls all concerned together. We also think that family members, if the individual does not mind, could contribute to calling a SIP. It increases the individual's own power, influence and participation. We need to do a lot today, but we also need to deal with our history. Individuals and relatives have been affected by the policies taken during the 20th century against people with disabilities, and the abuses it has caused have caused many traumas. It is a history of forced sterilisation, incapacitation and unfair discrimination. Institutional care is a dark chapter in our history where violence, mismanagement and medical experiments occurred. I understand that if you have been personally affected, you would like to forget these terrible abuses and move on. But we as a society have a duty to remember and ensure that history is not repeated. I believe that a large part of the policy that has been conducted in many ways has been made invisible. But the policies carried out also echo into the present and how we sometimes view people with disabilities and also how we build our society with constant separate solutions rather than doing right from the start. But if history does not become known and if restoration is not given, how should we as a society learn from our history? This announcement is therefore very important. In this context, I hope that the situation of people with disabilities throughout the ages will be highlighted in a uniform way. A commission of truth, a vindication, an apology and a lesson in the future are most urgent. Mr. Old President! I can also say that this is my last debate in this House. I would like to extend my warm thanks to the chairman and vice-chairman of the committee, the whole committee, the secretariat and the secretarial staff of the House. I will carry this experience with me for the rest of my life.
i-AFfppyLYBrQTTveSaPraCg	Mr President-in-Office of the Council and Mr Fransson. I just want to return my thanks. Thank you very much, Margareta Fransson, for working in our committee. We have had the pleasure of meeting several environmental partners in committee. Like the others, you have contributed many experiences that are important in our joint work. We have different political opinions, we break them against each other and sometimes we find common denominators. A warm thank you for the work you have done! Maybe you'll come back, what do I know? Good luck in everything that comes your way in the future!
i-QkjJgiBSUB8gXw8ZhSYmhG	Mr. Old President! I take this opportunity to reply, because I have not had many such occasions in this House. I would like to say that when I come in for a very short period of time, it is very important to meet with a warm-hearted President who is contributing and helping. You feel welcome and you don't have to pedal so much.
i-F4rtEHEU68o34FosRhMimw	Mr. Old President! Gandhi said that every society should be judged by how it treats its most vulnerable. This became a core evaluation that set the direction for our common welfare – for our Sweden. I will only talk about the announcement proposed in paragraph 5, the neglect and abuse of state institutions, Mr President-in-Office. Sweden has not always been there for all its citizens, although we may live in that faith. Even today, very close in history, there are citizens who have been treated very badly. Sometimes they have been mistreated because they served as a means for the collective's good, sometimes it has been said to be for their own good or for the good of their loved ones. Mr. Old President! Institutional care is a part of Sweden's history that is rarely told. To this day, the story is silenced and not taken seriously. Now it is time for the state to acknowledge all the people affected for what it has done and to dig deep into its heart for the whole truth behind what happened and why it is reflected right into our day. The victims, their relatives and relatives need redress and recognition, but they may need to be listened to above all. In our country, as long as we can remember, we have lived in the belief that the strong should not push down the weak. They should not plunder the weak or obtain advantages at the expense of others. Nevertheless, some people became a means to the goal of the majority of the population, Mr. President of the Age. Some were not considered to fit in. Others were considered inferior. They experienced the real backside and shadow side of the folk home. It is about forced sterilisations, lobotomies, forced intervention and medical experiments – in short, a view of humanity that is terrible and which we are rejecting today. But it is also reflected in today's view of people, Mr. President of the Age. These are undesirable people who were then removed and placed in institutions, and yes, you recognise the vibes of what is happening today. A clear example of the human vision that existed in Sweden not so long ago is the experiments carried out at the hospital Vipeholm in Lund. Vipeholm opened in 1935 and closed in 1982. At its peak, there was room for over 1,000 patients. Today, the inmates were to be called people with intellectual disabilities, but then they were called deranged, illiterate idiots and hard - to - handle. They were considered to be a burden to society. These people were to be locked in and hidden away, and they could be used as experimental animals– they felt and experienced nothing. Mr. Old President! It is important to remember this in our time and for the future, not only the abuses themselves, but also that they were considered justified because they were considered to benefit the majority. The institutions were considered to be for the benefit of the individual. We shall remember this in honor of the victims and their loved ones, and we shall remember it in order to avoid making similar mistakes. That is why this Commission of Truth is needed, Mr President-in-Office, and it must be followed by an official apology from the State for the abuses that took place at the Vipeholm institution and similar institutions. Mr. Old President! May it never happen again.
i-UqMHZTwUQkAxtBV4vb1deS	Mr. Old President! I'm just going to make a correction when I called for the wrong reservation earlier. I'm in favour of reservation number 22.
i-AwUYHp4wWmFkTaZVn3dtig	Mr. Old President! I am very pleased that in this report the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media states that the state must speed up the pace and ambition of reconciliation with the Sami people. The committee believes that the state must speed up the return of Sami remains, and in order to do so, we urgently need to examine the legal, financial and practical conditions for this to happen. A coherent regulatory framework and a process that works for the identification and recovery of Sami objects and remains must be created. It should be said that a great deal has been done and that a great deal is being done, but the pace and ambition must be increased. Sweden should be an international example in this area. Mr. Old President! There is some political exploding power on the issues of cultural heritage. The handling of Sami remains is an example of this, but there are many more. When nations and nation states were once to be built, it was important to be able to show a long story, preferably a glorious one, and from a cultural heritage – myths, museums, monuments and stories – they tried to create a cohesion in the new nation-building. Of course, in the story of the new nation, there were also, as in all stories, both inner and outer enemies. It is important to remember this: Nations as we know them are a fairly new phenomenon, and a nation is actually a fictional thing. The issue of a cultural cannon for strengthening cohesion has repeatedly emerged in the debate on cultural heritage policy, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Personally, I have a rather dedramatized view of the great thing. It is clear that there are some works that are particularly important for us to understand what it is to be human and for us to understand what one has previously thought it is to be human. There are also some works that are particularly important for us to understand how one has thought about the Swedish and how we now think about what is Swedish. For my part, I think it's pretty good to get guidance when I try to strengthen my own education, but I don't like the idea that a government-sponsored cannon – whether it's literature, film, art or architecture – is used to shape my thoughts. There are two diametrically different ways of looking at the question of cannon: either you see it as a tool for the individual's personal education, development and growth, or you see it as the state's way of trying to shape citizens' minds right. As a liberal, it is obvious to me to dismiss that from the top, but it is just as obvious to like the bottom-up perspective – the individual bottom-up perspective that is also in the cannon debate. A cannon should not be the tools of the state, it should be the tools of the individual. In the same way, I look at the entire cultural heritage: Museums are not there to learn how to think. They are not the tools of the state to make me think right, but they are there to make me know more, to think better and to understand a little more. The political explosive power that exists on cultural heritage issues is, of course, also visible in conflicts – not least in military conflicts, as we now see in Ukraine after Russia's attack. But we have seen similar trends around the world, where religious and worldly heritage is destroyed for political reasons after being saved in generation after generation. Mr. Old President! Finally, through centuries the Jewish people have repeatedly suffered from anti-Semitic attitudes. Anti-Semitism occurs in many different parts of society and takes many different forms. The prejudices and enemy images of Jews rooted in Swedish and European tradition, which have had such disastrous consequences in recent European history, persist. At the same time, we have many Swedes who come from countries where anti-Semitism is government sanctioned by state-controlled media, schools and religious institutions. No matter where anti-Semitism comes from and where it is found in society, it means that many people are exposed and their freedom is restricted. We have a particular responsibility to combat anti-Semitic attitudes. We all have; it is a responsibility that lies with each and every one of us. There is a need for increased awareness of how anti-Semitism in Sweden is expressed today. In Malmö, a recent survey has been carried out showing that anti-Semitic attitudes among the city's inhabitants make their mark on the existence of Malmö's Jewish population. Among other things, Jewish students avoid attending certain schools. A similar survey should be carried out throughout Sweden. Nor should schools avoid discussing anti-Semitism because the subject is considered sensitive. Against this background, I and the Liberals want the government to initiate a national survey of the existence of anti-Semitic attitudes. Mr. Old President! With this, I would like to vote in favour of reservation 11.
i-KkXsiB7g3fRCLsSQw1eLGX	Mr. Old President, you and your audience! Today we are debating the Culture Committee's report 2021/22:KRU6. The report contains 116 requests in motions from the general period of exercise during this Parliamentary session. I would like to begin by supporting reservation 1, but for the gain of time I do not support it. I call for the other reservations to be rejected and for the proposal contained in the report to be approved. Mr. Old President! I would like to begin my speech by touching on the situation in Ukraine. We are in a time that we could not imagine just a few months ago. There is one clear before 24 February and one clear after 24 February. It is a date that we will never forget. Europe is at war. Russia has invaded the democratic country of Ukraine, and we receive daily information about terrible events taking place in Ukraine. War against a democratic country is indefensible, and to see how civilians are affected is unbearable. We know that civilian targets have been bombed – children's hospitals with pregnant women, retirement homes and civilian accommodation. We also know that civilians are being denied security; it is war crimes that we must distance ourselves from. People – civilians, men, women, children and the elderly – should not have to starve to death because they are not allowed to leave the place where they are. They should not have to be raped, shot or killed. Mr. Old President! Today we are debating cultural heritage. In addition to the human suffering in Ukraine, Russia's invasion also poses a serious threat to Ukraine's cultural heritage. This means, among other things, UNESCO, and the UN organisation is now working with the Ukrainian Government to rapidly mark buildings and objects. Cultural workers present in Ukraine testify that the Russian military is showing less and less consideration for cultural buildings. Museums, theatres, libraries and churches have been severely affected by attacks by Russian forces since the war broke out. The historical museum in Tjernihiv, with several works by the artist Marija Prymatjenko, was completely destroyed at the beginning of the invasion. Monasteries and churches were also destroyed, such as the Cathedral of Charkiv, which has barely been restored since Russia's last destruction almost 100 years ago. The cathedral was restored in 2009, but now it is once again destroyed. Unfortunately, targeting a country's cultural heritage is common in arming conflicts, and we often see it. It's about psychological warfare – sabotage and undermining a ethnic group or a national identity. Cultural objects are important to the people who live in a country. Cultural heritage is part of identity and history. That is what unites a people and a country. Cultural heritage is something that unites. The deliberate destruction of a cultural heritage is a war crime. When the UN agency UNESCO and the Ukrainian government are now trying to protect Ukraine's cultural heritage, it is largely a question of being able to demand responsibility from Russia later on. It is about being able to gather information and data to have as much information as possible when the issue of war crimes becomes relevant and is to be resolved. Ukraine and Russia have both signed the Hague Convention, which is about protecting culture and property in armed conflict. The judgment of history will be heavy on Vladimir Putin and the political leadership in Russia. They bear ultimate responsibility for the war, for the war crimes, for the attacks on Ukrainian civilians and for the destruction of cultural heritage. One day they will also be responsible for their war crimes and forced to assume their responsibilities. Mr. Old President! Speaking of the Social Democrats' reservation, the question of the repatriation of Sami human remains and religious objects is incredibly important. It shall continue to be promoted through legally secure, transparent and effective processes in cooperation between the parties concerned. Legal conditions exist today within the framework of existing regulations, as we could see at the repatriation in Lycksele 2019, which was the largest repatriation ever done in Sweden. After that, there have been further repatriations, including to Ájtte, the so-called vensk a fäll- och s amemuse et i Jokkmokk. On 10-11 May this year there will be a conference on repatriation at the Swedish mountain and Sami Museum Ájtte in Jokkmokk. The conference is held in consultation with Sametinget and Riksantikvariebetet. The conclusions of the conference will be part of the basis for future repatriation processes. To investigate the legal conditions for the identification and return of Sami objects and remains would be to interfere with an already ongoing process. We Social Democrats believe that the processes of repatriation should take place within the framework of Sami self-determination and in close dialogue with the Sameting, not through an investigation requested by the Riksdag and prepared by the government. There is already an ongoing dialogue between the government and the Sameting on the issue of repatriation. In addition, it is important to safeguard the independent role of museums vis-à-vis the government and the principle of arm's length. It would be inappropriate for the government to set up an investigation to analyse and suggest how museums should work with specific objects. In recent years there have been a number of major reforms in indigenous policy. An important reform is the order of consultation on matters concerning Sami interests. This means that Sami representatives should be involved in all matters of Sami interest, such as the management of cultural heritage. The consultation system came into force on 1 March this year and is therefore a completely new order. On 3 November 2021, which is also a very recent one, we decided to introduce a Truth and Reconciliation Commission which, among other things, has the task of producing proposals for action for reconciliation in the future. It includes repatriation as a very important part. We therefore believe that the proposal for an investigation contains important initiatives that have already been taken for a strengthened indigenous policy.
i-Kd11TLpkTbmFpvhu8r1UAS	Mr. Old President! During burning wars in our neighbourhood, they are now doing their best and their utmost to save, protect and hide the Ukrainian cultural heritage. It is both sad and terrible that a large part of their cultural heritage will never be shown up again as a result of destruction and theft. More needs to be done to save cultural heritage. Our countries have many stories that unite us. Mr. Old President! The Swedish Democrats have highlighted the importance of a rich and vibrant cultural heritage for several mandates. In these there is our history with stories from previous generations. We can gain a better understanding of how we have developed and of today's traditions, customs and practices. That is why we in our budget have several initiatives linked to making our cultural heritage visible, not least by digitising it. This is where the government needs to step up its pace. During this term of office, there has not been a single effort linked to cultural heritage. It is clear that the next government that occupies Rosenbad cannot be a social-democratic or environmental-partisan one. There is no commitment or knowledge from their side to our cultural heritage. Mr. Old President! Our intangible cultural heritage tells us about our traditions, what we eat and eat and how we used to. At the Institute for Languages and People's Memories, we can access a list of our living cultural heritage. When I read through it, I found some of my most personal favorites, namely the spit cake, the well-known high guard, the right of public access and, of course, coffee. Mr. Old President! We have exercised to strengthen the work of the Institute for Languages and People's Memories. There's a reservation, number 14, which I'd like to endorse. The report deals with issues that are close to our party's heart. We have a total of five reservations, most of all parties. We have debated and exercised the whole of this parliamentary term on more support for cultural heritage. We are the party that spends by far the most money and which has the most elaborate policy in the field of cultural heritage. Recently, it has been discovered that the county boards do not have contingency plans for how to protect their cultural heritage. The emergency plan has given priority to food supply and shelters. One might think that is a good priority, but we will do what we can to ensure that cultural heritage is included as a matter of urgency. We know from experience that war can break out when you least expect it. Then you have to have a plan for what is to be protected and in what order. If we don't have anything left to tell you about our story, what are we? While I am concerned with the protection and care of our cultural heritage, I can say that we have been exercising to increase the rate of digitisation, not least for our museums, which handle a large part of our cultural heritage, but also for our archives, libraries and more. For us, it is not just about protecting it for generations to come. For us, it is also, and above all, about showing it to more people. Our cultural heritage is our common heritage. It's not supposed to be hidden away in a warehouse or a basement. It will be presented to all of us. Mr. Old President! I hope that the next government will give priority to our common treasure: our cultural heritage.
i-BjoF4TvSBt8b5MhMjN1oZ1	Mr. Old President! I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 10, although of course I support all the reservations expressed by the Center Party. Mr. Old President! Our cultural heritage can mean both security and pride. Older generations will tell younger generations. Cultural heritage can be in the small and the large. I thought I'd start with the little thing: our pastures. Our pastures, despite their relatively small size, are very important, among other things, for the conservation of biodiversity, valuable nature and building and cultural environments, and not least for the protection of endangered livestock breeds. A pasture requires a sustainable way of living and in its own way a circular economy in practice. Fäbodarna is well visited and therefore important for the tourism industry. Fäbodbrukarna is an entrepreneur who needs good conditions for profitability in order to be able to operate. Then there are a number of rules that need to be adapted more for small businesses processing food. Increasing knowledge about farm farming, facilitating generational transitions, providing better opportunities to prevent and protect oneself from predatory attacks on animals and providing conditions for increased profitability through better support and conditions are ways of promoting the preservation of cultural heritage. A comprehensive plan of action should therefore be drawn up to safeguard a living farm. How, then, can you learn about cultural heritage? In my municipality of Tierp we have plenty of good utility communities that are well worth visiting. There is good cooperation between the municipality's primary schools and the non-profit association life. The pupils in the primary schools of the municipality are given a kind of cultural heritage guarantee, you might say. Once a school year, students get to visit the mills and learn about life and the iron handling that was relevant to our use earlier. In Söderfors we still have a mill that is in full swing. The background is drawn from the curriculum, and the initiative is initiated by culture and leisure in Tierp municipality. Together with the associations at the various farms and local associations, a plan has been drawn up for students to see that what they read about in the history books is actually around the corner. This is a practical example of how children learn about their surroundings and their surroundings and in this case pass on their knowledge of the cultural heritage. Here, too, generations meet, and I am convinced that one learns from one another. First class students visit Vendel, which is a historically interesting place for everyone. In ninth grade, Tobo is used. In between, I could have told you about all our uses. You can handle one a school year. But I'm gonna save it. It could be some other debate that needs some use. I would also like to say something about the cultural heritage that we now see too closely being destroyed or at risk of being destroyed. The war in Ukraine shows this with frightening clarity. Russia is actively erasing the Ukrainian people's cultural heritage. The same phenomenon is found in history, from Nazi plundering of Europe during World War II to the bombing of Buddhist shrines in Afghanistan by the Taliban. Mr. Old President! Of course, human suffering is the first thing we think about. Nevertheless, cultural heritage is something that we should retain on the day when the war is over and we should rebuild our country. I really hope that Sweden can be helpful in many ways. It is about the country's art treasures, books and historical objects. They will play a very important role for the people who remain and for those who return to their homeland when the war is over. Cultural heritage in our own history can also be something you wish it hadn't happened. But we cannot erase it, but we must carry with us the mistakes made by previous generations. My party friends in the Constitutional Committee have raised the subject of remembrance in a committee motion. The Center Party wants to commission the Living History Forum to tell, describe and explain how Sweden has treated Sami, tornadoes and other national minorities – this so as not to forget and perhaps provide some redress.
i-2LfwNeuupJtiQ61Hws9bkg	Mr. Old President! Museums and archives are folk education institutions. They are also carriers of our cultural heritage, institutions of our collective memory and arenas for cultural meetings and various forms of artistic expression. A common year attracts Sweden's museums to a total of around 28 million visits across the country. It has been a while since that was the case, but now that the business can return to normal and reach the previous number of visitors, it is important that efforts are made to enable the museums to complete their mission in all parts. Unfortunately, the needs of the cultural heritage sector have not weighed sufficiently in recent years, and so I would like to call for the approval of reservation 7 which contains several proposals to strengthen the sector. Free admission to state museums is a way to lower the thresholds and increase people's access to culture and art. The implementation of the free admission reform was an important part of the Left Party's agreement with the Government in the field of culture during the last term of office. It is of great importance that our common cultural heritage is made available to everyone regardless of the size of the wallet. When the Swedish National Audit Office carried out its review of the free admission reform, it was found that it made it possible for museums to reach out wider, and work to clarify the reform has since begun. Many museums have pointed to the need for additional support in order to cover the increased costs that arise when more people are able to visit the museums. Mr. Old President! The Left Party believes that free admission is an important way to make cultural heritage and collections available, but that the funding model needs to be refined so that an increased number of visitors does not become a negative thing that undermines the budget for other important tasks. In the longer term, we also want more museums to be included. In previous budget movements, for example, we have proposed to extend the reform to include the Technical Museum. At the regional level, many county museums have removed their fees, which gives great potential to reach people throughout the country. We want the museums to be seen as part of a cultural commons to which all residents are entitled – a common tax – and propose that the government set up an investigation to enable the expansion and development of free admission reform so that county museums, foundation museums and perhaps some private museums can also be included. Mr. Old President! Several of the state museums have collections that are among Europe's largest, and they are also of great value for international research. For example, both the State Historical Museums and the National Museum of Natural History have around 11 million objects each in their collections, which is incredible. The management of these collections is crucial. Managing a collection involves a lot of work and requires a wide range of specialist skills. In recent years, many alarms have come from the museum sector that the resources are too small to be able to take good care of the collections and that they are therefore at risk of decay. To take an example, only the board collection at Skokloster requires around 200 years of work to be saved, and in some places the right type of magazine is missing. As you can hear, it takes the means to give museums a chance to catch up in the work of securing the collections, and it is urgent. At the same time as resources for existing collections are lacking, new items are constantly being added, which is also being raised in previous budgets. The Swedish National Agency for Historical Museums has the task of taking care of all archaeological objects that the National Board of Antiquities assigns to them. Because of many major infrastructure projects and an increase in housing construction, a large number of objects are being dug up, and today many county museums say that they are unable to receive these objects. Instead, it lands in the historical museums of the State to receive them, for they cannot say no. But the right conditions are lacking, and the State's historical museums cannot control this flow. One therefore needs to be compensated in order to be able to take care of all the findings. Otherwise objects will be located without being registered and taken care of, and they will not be searchable for researchers. And, of course, they risk being destroyed. Another major task for museums is digitalisation, and there is also a need for increased resources. This is also addressed in the re-initial inquiry, which was recently consulted. At a time of high unemployment, it would be appropriate to make an effort that means a lot to the museum sector and to make the country's collections available to all residents. We are proposing a new employment project similar to the successful Access that took place in 2006-2009 and gave over 1 000 people jobs in the cultural field. This would make a welcome contribution to the cultural heritage sector. There is also a need to train existing staff in digitalisation, for example in making digitised experiences for visitors. The Left Party has moved on to this. Mr. Old President! I am very pleased that the committee reached an almost unanimous decision that the government needs to do more to speed up the process of returning Sami objects and remains. We know that important steps have been taken in recent years, but we believe that it is going too slowly and that the resources to work on these issues are too small. The Left Party has therefore raised the need to increase the resources of the Sami Council to deal with these complex issues. I am a little surprised that the Social Democrats did not want to take part in drafting the committee's position but reserved themselves. One objection was that the initiative should come from the Sami group, not from the Riksdag. But of course it is from the Sami group the pressure comes; you think it is going too slow. Another objection from the Social Democrats was that we have got the consultation order, which will give the Sami greater influence. It is interesting that it was a weighty reason on this issue but not in the big decision on the Gállok mine just a few weeks ago. At the time, the consultation system was no obstacle to making the important decision – a decision that was clearly at odds with a clear opinion of the Sami population, so the disappointment is therefore great. I think that this too is a matter for us in the Committee on Culture, because the mining issue cannot be reduced to just a matter of nutrition. It is also a question of preserving world heritage, traditions, culture and the environment. There are therefore also objections from international bodies such as UNESCO and also from the National Heritage Office. I regret that the consultation procedure is only referred to when we want to avoid the measures proposed by the committee, but not when it comes to the opening of new mines. These are such difficult issues that really test whether we take the indigenous convention seriously. Last week, when our amending budget came, they also took money from the Sameting which they had received to carry out the consultation order and gave to the county administrative boards. Even that was a mistake. It is excellent that a Commission of Truth and Reconciliation should be set up to deal with our history, but it would also be appropriate, in the opinion of the Left Party, to stop committing new abuses and abuse of power today.
i-J9GL8a54LFLqmwZ7Ho1FpW	Mr. Old President! I support the Christian Democrats' reservation number 18. I agree with the description of the enormous impact of the war on cultural heritage that several speakers here have touched upon. Knowledge of its own cultural heritage, both material and intangible, gives people security in their identity. It is necessary for us to be able to meet and respect the cultures and traditions of others and is a strong health factor by strengthening the sense of context. People are increasingly interested in their roots and cultural heritage, and this is evident not least in television programmes where people are helped to find out and understand the history of their background. On social media we see that groups are started where people gather around a common place of growth and exchange old pictures from their home environment. I myself am part of Facebook groups that take up the history of Öckerö and the ten islands of Öckerö municipality in Bohuslän. An important area in the cultural heritage sector is the fluid cultural heritage. One example is the fishing tradition on the west coast dating back hundreds of years. Different types of fishing gear and the structures of the boats are knowledge that actually still goes on between generations along the Bohus coast. Fishing is also a basic industry. The sea provides us with protein-rich food, and although fishermen have been decimated in number to around 1 000 people, they carry out a mission that should be praised, I mean. Another important issue in the field of cultural heritage that many here have touched upon is the right of the Sami to Sami remains in the museum collections. Despite the guidance and ethical rules that have been drawn up, a consensus has not been reached, which is reinforced by the government's meekness in the matter. The state, as part of the reconciliation work with the Sami people, should speed up the return of Sami remains by taking greater responsibility for the judicial, financial and administrative processes. Mr. Old President! Another area that may inspire me most of all is the intangible cultural heritage. It is about dialects, traditions and people's memories, but it is also about the values that shaped and shape our lives. When I look back at my childhood I see that it was very different then compared to now. The events and opportunities of that time, such as in technology, were quite different, but the basic values persist. Yours is yours and mine is mine – ownership – at the same time as you were raised to be generous and share and to be with others as you want them to be against yourself – to meet and meet with respect. The word virtues has often had a bad tone but is about attitudes towards each other and towards himself. Virtue has been discussed among people at all times and has created many external and internal conflicts. One could say that you live in relation to various virtues that cause it and that create these constant internal conflicts between what is right and wrong, appropriate and inappropriate and so on. Aristoteles formed some virtues. The first was wisdom, but it was also uprightness, moderation, and valor. The theologian and philosopher T h omas a v Aquino, who by the way were also saints, listed the following virtues: faith, hope and love. In addition, the following virtues, with their conflict areas, are counted into the line: generosity, as opposed to holding on to one's own, and humanity, as opposed to looking down on the weak. Mr. Old President! It is an election year, and what democratic virtues should we follow? And where do we get them? Is it time to update the values that marked different movements at the beginning of democracy in our country? The labour movement, the sobriety movement and the free church movement became strong and guiding forces that shaped democracy in our country. In 2021, it was 100 years since both women and men were able to vote for the first time in parliamentary elections. In January 1922, the first female members took up their seats in the Riksdag. Women and men, poor and rich – each had a voice. Everyone was given the opportunity to express their views on the decisions taken jointly. Democratic virtues were cultivated — learning to listen respectfully to others, arguing for one's cause, and judging what was true. Because the truth is a force in itself. And these are still virtues to absorb, not least during an election year.
i-xFUKY2XDcSmMzwnDwHKdG	Mr. Old President! Cultural heritage, the material and immaterial expressions of human influence, is cohesive and educational but far from static. It is essential that in a democracy we regard our cultural heritage as something that is constantly changing and reformulated. It will therefore be extremely important to stand up for openness, to nurture the legacy of previous generations and to take responsibility for those who live here today and for those who will be our future. Sweden's museums are important for both learning and education as well as as as managers of cultural heritage and history. We attach the utmost importance to the role of museums as independent institutions. The museum's activities will be characterised by knowledge building and a high level of competence in each subject area. Publicly funded cultural institutions, such as museums, should not be politicised and governed by ideological pointers. They should of course be based on a democratic basis, but the content should be free as much as possible. Mr. Old President! The reform of free access to state museums has primarily benefited adults in the inner city and tourists. Instead, we want Moderates to enable our state museums to reach out to more groups across the country. In this respect, for example, cooperation between schools and museums should be a priority. Digital technology also gives museums completely new opportunities to reach out, regardless of the day or time of the day. Not least during the pandemic we have seen how different museums have found different digital solutions to show their collections and to reach the audience. Mr. Old President! The balance between new and old, between conservation and innovation, is rarely simple, but they do not always have to be opposed to each other. When designing new residential areas, for example, and public spaces, it is also crucial to nurture the underground cultural heritage. It is therefore particularly important that the cooperation between municipalities on the one hand and the National Antiquities Office and the County Administrative Boards on the other is effective and that the legislation is applied uniformly. The development of land in the construction or expansion of activities often includes archaeological investigations. The costs of these investigations are often high and the time from application to implementation is often excessive. We therefore believe that the government should review whether current cost responsibility for archaeological excavations is optimal or whether there are other ways of allocating the costs of archaeological excavations. Mr. Old President! Another thing that we Moderates take seriously is that Sweden lacks immunity legislation for art objects. The lending state wants to know it's getting back the art items. It therefore requires legislation which grants immunity to art objects, which may otherwise be seized if someone claims that they are entitled to them. A number of museums have had to cancel exhibitions because Sweden still lacks immunity legislation that provides legal protection for foreign art objects. We therefore ask for an investigation into such legislation in order to legally protect the foreign art objects that have been lent to Swedish museums. For many years Sweden has been a significant vehicle nation. It is important to preserve and have the opportunity to develop it. Rolling heritage includes vehicles aged 30 and over. Motor-historical vehicles and museums should be better encouraged by society. There are hundreds of thousands of enthusiasts who are committed to safeguarding the rolling heritage of veteran vehicles. Unfortunately, social demands are being made which are aggravating and directly hampering the preservation and development of the mobile cultural heritage. It can be noted that it was over three years ago that the Riksdag decided on an announcement that specifically concerned the motor history of the cultural heritage. We therefore want the government to investigate the conditions under which the state can ensure that the overall mobile cultural heritage is protected. Last but not least, Mr President, I would like to highlight the important issue of the repatriation of Sami remains. One work in the reconciliation process between Sweden's Sami indigenous people and the Swedish state is the restoration of Sami remains and ceremonial objects found in Swedish museum collections, so-called repatriation. The Sami have long demanded the return of human remains and sacred ceremonial objects contained in government collections. Nevertheless, only a few have been returned. On the day of the indigenous peoples of August 9, 2019, remains of some twenty-five individuals were returned at a public repatriation ceremony in Lycksele and returned to their original resting place at Gammplatsen, where they were dug up as late as in the 1950s. Since 2018, there has been a new museum team in place that clearly states that museums will participate in repatriation. For this purpose, the Society and the National Heritage Office have developed a guide for the repatriation work, and the Museum of History has a main responsibility among the museums. We Moderates believe that guidance is legitimate, but far from sufficient. We believe it is important for the state to speed up the return of Sami remains and ceremonial objects, as this is an important part of the reconciliation work with the Sami people, and for the Swedish state to take greater responsibility for these processes, both legally, administratively and financially. It is therefore very gratifying that the Riksdag now has a majority for an announcement, with only the S ocial democrats opposed, who believe that the government should look at the legal, economic and practical conditions for achieving a coherent regulatory framework for the identification and return of Sami objects and remains. Finally, Mr President-in-Office, I would like to endorse the Moderates' reservation number 17.
i-Ryja594uKy6DYHS7GsWq5d	Mr. Old President! It is often said by us politicians that children's culture is so important and that it must be given priority. Of course a lot is being done. I am pleased with the efforts made by the Government in the framework of the January Agreement to highlight reading. The reading strategy that came into place was very important. But more is needed. For me, Mr President-in-Office, this is a deeply ideological issue. It is in encounter with culture that children see new ways of life. It is in films, novels, comics, plays and musical subcultures that they find new and different ways and different life choices than those that are obvious in their own immediate social context. For a child who does not meet much culture of different kinds at a young age, life becomes poorer. This applies not only to the child itself but also to life choices and life chances. There will be fewer chances of life to choose from for those children who encounter less culture. There are three priorities for the future. That is not all that is needed, but that is what we in the Liberals think needs priority in terms of children's culture. Naturally, the focus will be on the school. It may not be entirely unusual when it comes to liberals. It must be easier for schools to accept the performing arts, otherwise it will be more difficult for students to meet them. For this reason, a structured dialogue between states, regions and municipalities is needed. There are municipalities and regions in Sweden that handle this perfectly well. There are also countries in our neighbourhood that are doing this perfectly well. From all these good examples we must learn, and they must be disseminated. The goal should be to ensure that every student is given regular cultural activities during each year at school. With this, Mr. Old President, I would like to endorse reservation 5.
i-Qd6DAUFmXs42Q9FwKwxsNj	Mr. Old President! Culture for children and young people is one of the most important areas that we who work with cultural issues have. This also applies to those of us who have had the privilege of training young people in the youth school in Sweden. Young people's interest in culture and artistic creation is sometimes a bit like that. However, our job as politicians is to ensure that it can be well exploited and stimulated. Living cultural life broadens the opportunities for lifelong learning and lifelong learning trips. Making culture accessible is part of efforts to break exclusion and improve integration. A large part of our focus is on the right of all children and young people to culture, and we give special priority to children and young people from socio-economically vulnerable environments. We believe that the right of children and young people to culture should be given priority precisely because we see that culture has a job to do with reaching out to children and young people from groups who are less aware of different cultural expressions. It is often at a young age that people's interest in culture and artistic creation can best be exploited and stimulated. Living cultural life broadens the opportunities, as I said earlier, for lifelong learning and lifelong learning trips. Mr. Old President! In this report, we also have a number of references to honour-related violence. There are some things that are very important in the report. The Youth Board, the current Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society issues, published the report Gift Against Their Will in 2009. It showed that about 70 000 young people in Sweden were worried about not being allowed to choose their own partner or who to marry. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's 2007 Freedom and Family Report also showed that honor-related violence and oppression were the most common reasons why young people are taken care of and placed in sheltered housing. It was about that they were not allowed to choose their own partners and that they were seriously threatened if they did not comply with the family's demands. Starting from the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare and the Swedish National Agency for Youth's now quite old figures and looking at the nationally weighted studies and the local quantitative ones that have been done in Malmö and Stockholm, the average is about 10 per cent of the young people from high school and up to 25 years of age. This would mean that 100 000 young people are exposed to this. In addition to that, adults are also added. This is a serious issue that we should take very seriously, because the results show that we have a great deal of work to do. Under the alliance government, on July 2014, the law against forced marriage came into force. It means that it is not only criminal to force someone to marry but also criminal to pressure someone to marry against their will. Attempts and preparation for forced marriage are also criminalized as well as tricking someone into travelling abroad for the purpose of being married away by force or exploitation. In addition, the crime of child marriage can cause imprisonment for a maximum of four years. By this offence, it becomes punishable to induce or permit a child to enter into a marriage or marriagelike relationship. In addition, a new special penalty has been introduced which means that if a motive for the crime has been to preserve or restore honour, it should be seen as an aggravating circumstance in assessing the penalty value. Mr. Old President! This is why we believe that, as part of our work to promote human rights and in order for our plan for a stronger Sweden to be fulfilled, we need more information, opinion formation and other preventive work against young people being married off against their will. This includes information and support measures, such as at airports, aimed at young people who are about to travel abroad by air. For in Sweden, everyone, regardless of gender, sexual orientation, disability or origin, should be allowed to choose who they marry. That is why, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to conclude by calling for the Moderates' reservation No 8.
i-PxHi9SpNwigBWpsiuzkCgi	Mr. Old President! I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 9. Culture for children and young people is one of the pillars of the work to provide good conditions for developing into independent individuals through access to cultural forms of expression as well as knowledge and resources for own creation and participation in society. Children's right to culture is part of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It establishes the child's right to rest and leisure, to play and recreation adapted to age and to participate freely in cultural and artistic life. What is also a fundamental right is to be able to decide your own partner. Nevertheless, there has been a development where more and more young people feel that they cannot choose partners freely. A 2009 survey showed that there could be more than 70 000 young people in Sweden who experienced restrictions on choice of partner – restrictions that usually came from the expectations or demands of the immediate family. There are no periodic studies to show how the situation is changing or evolving. However, it is important to get to grips with the situation and to be able to put in place measures to prevent young people from being forced to marry someone whom they did not choose. Regular studies are therefore needed in this area. According to statistics from the Swedish Crime Prevention Council, a total of 475 police reports have been received in 2015 – 2019 regarding forced marriage and misleading marriage. Under Swedish law, marriage should be a voluntary act. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe stated in 2005 that forced marriages violate the human rights of the individual, and the crime must not be justified in the criminal proceedings by culture, tradition, custom, religion or so-called honour. Mr. Old President! One area of youth policy that has been discussed for a long time but where many problems still persist is the growing mental illness. Cultural activities play a major role in terms of well-being and health, both physical and mental. Examples of this are sports, outdoor activities, literature and music. One cause of mental illness in children and young people is bullying at school. Being exposed to bullying at an early age affects and shapes your adult self and can have major psychological consequences for the rest of your life. All the years of systematic bullying in elementary school have shaped me and caused difficulties that I still have to live with today. A meaningful leisure time was crucial to getting to school at all. In my case it was the horse sport and stable that saved me, but also the music and outdoor life. Leisure activities also provide important role models in the form of leaders, teachers and trainers. If a safe home environment does not exist, it is of the utmost importance that other adults can be there, even outside school hours. Bris released a report in 2018 that showed that children's living conditions need to be changed to reverse the negative development of mental illness that has been going on for many years. The changes concern, among other things, designing a school that promotes mental health and creating the conditions for a care where the right efforts are made at the right time when children feel bad. Bris also reports on research, descriptions of how children are doing and their concern about what will happen if they ask for help. Children also talk about inadequate information from care, broken promises of silence and lack of participation in their own care. Parents who cannot or cannot support and that the school is unable to provide the right support are also mentioned. This gives important signals about the situation. Mr. Old President! Nordic cooperation is also important for the entire area of culture and leisure for children and young people. Nordic Culture Point is a meeting place with the aim of strengthening and promoting the Nordic linguistic and cultural presence in the Nordic region. The platform is important for the Nordic Council of Ministers to have the opportunity to implement the political priorities of the Nordic cultural cooperation. It administers important support programmes for art and culture, such as the Nordic Programme 0 – 30. It supports children's and young people's own projects aimed at strengthening their organisation, influence and participation in political, cultural and social activities. The Nordic countries 0 – 30 have been established by the Nordic Committee for Children and Youth, where the target group is children and young people up to 30 years of age. All children need to be seen and confirmed. It is a prerequisite to develop according to your own circumstances but also to dare to dream, set goals and then reach there. From an early age, creating both good self-confidence and a good sense of self-esteem lay the foundation for mental development. As Pippi Långstrump said: I've never tried that before, so I'm sure I can do that! The most important thing to remember when it comes to politics for children and young people is that it is better to create well-being in children than to try to fix broken adults.
i-XmD6yhC7ZiF1GA2uPgQemw	Mr. Old President! I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 3 in the report, although here too I support all the other reservations of the Centre Party. I'm going to start talking about Creative School. Creative school stimulates young people's creativity and creates meetings with professional cultural creators. It is important for everyone to have access to a wide range of culture throughout the country and for all children to face many different cultural expressions so that they can find their own expressions. Those of us who are in this House right now also know that culture is good for health. There are therefore several reasons why the focus on Creative School should in the long term be broadened to include upper secondary school. It would be a way of giving professional cultural creators more jobs in schools when working with children and culture. A meaningful leisure time with sensible adults is one of the best for children to grow up and become safe individuals. But we know it's different. Unfortunately, not all children have that condition. Sometimes children have to spend part of summer holidays or other holidays alone without the supervision of any adult, at worst, or even in the company of other children. Especially summer holidays are difficult to plan if the family's resources are scarce and the network is small. Especially for single parents, it can be extra tough to get everyday life together. It is for all these children that leisure activities and free activities organised by or in conjunction with the voluntary association life on summer holidays and other holidays are particularly important. The Education Act and the Convention on the Rights of the Child need to be complied with, and municipalities need to work out a long-term plan so that children do not have to be alone on holidays. Mr. Old President! The report contains a number of subjects. There are also passages about digitalisation, which is a large part of children's lives. There are many advantages to digital development, but there are also some negative aspects that are unfortunately difficult to stop or slow down. Not least, a lot of young people get hurt in different ways. I think about when social media or gaming environments for some people are at risk of being insecure. There are rules on threats and hatred, but there are also other types of comments and actions that hinder young people's freedom of expression and do great harm to young people. The state and relevant authorities should contribute to promoting a broad dialogue in society on how to achieve a better dialogue climate online. Young people deserve a better social climate. Ideal organisations offering support and advice to young people for a secure online environment should receive increased support. A secure internet environment is an urgent issue and a question of gender equality. I believe that web filters against online pornography should be introduced into the computers of all the country's preschools and schools. Today, two out of three municipalities have implemented it on a voluntary basis, and that is very positive. But there are still children in the other municipalities, and there are quite a few of them. More and more children and young people are exposed to various forms of online harassment. It is important that both school and other social functions work to ensure that children and young people in Sweden have a safe internet environment.
i-USc11xi23S6YUD6M3nAQnd	Mr. Old President! I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Christian Democrats' reservation number 4 on the cultural school. I would also like to say that what Catarina Deremar spoke about when it comes to filters against pornography in preschool and school is something that I very much support and that I have worked for it to be introduced. We are a group working on it, and I very much hope that it will become a reality in all of Sweden's municipalities. Of our 290 municipalities, only 3 have no cultural school activities, according to statistics from the National Council for Culture. This is a municipal matter, and in many municipalities it works well – or better or worse, one should say. My experience from Uddevalla municipality is that it not only worked well; during my sons' music at the cultural school there were some excellent music teachers. Playing in a group, perhaps playing a solo or just feeling that there will be music by pressing a few keys or hitting the drums at an even pace is developing. It creates harmony. To also experience being part of a context and have a task is important for each individual. Now it's not the case, Mr. Old President, that everyone moves on and becomes a professional musician, like my sons. It may stop at a few attempts with the block flute or some fruitless attempts to get sound in a trumpet or the sound of a violin. Finally, the music teacher may say to the parents: "I think the child should decide for himself whether it wants to continue to play. Mr. Old President! In about a hundred municipalities, the headmaster has decided that students at his or her school will be allowed to leave the regular education in order to receive a brief lesson on their instrument from a teacher from the cultural school. Stellbenta school politicians in other municipalities do not see the value of this but say that the students should play after school time, point end. For example, Munkedal municipality, located in northern Bohuslän, decided to do so, i.e. to play after school. As a result, students from Hedecas, 20 miles [30 km] north of Munkedal, would first go home from school in Munkedal and then return to Munkedal in the evening to receive instruction on their instrument. That's completely unreasonable. In fact, according to the school law, the headmaster and teacher have the opportunity to decide whether the student can leave the class for a while if they feel that this does not adversely affect the study results. Many of those who play and play music also have good study motivation. Someone may not have any motivation at all; let them play 15 minutes and get their motivation back. I mean, this is an opportunity for students to take advantage of. Mr. Old President! However, not everyone can afford the fees charged by the municipality for teaching at the cultural school. It is a problem in itself, although there are results that show that free cultural school does not solve the problem. There may be economic, social or cultural reasons where exclusion prevents many from getting in touch with the cultural school. It's very boring. In order for children and young people to get on the move and come into exciting contexts in music, dance or theatre – or sport for that matter – we Christian Democrats have created a leisure card. This is a national, general leisure card. All students attending grades 2 to 9 receive a card charged with SEK 500 to be used for membership fees in the cultural school or various associations, sports associations and so on – SEK 500, all children in grades 2 to 9. We are investing 850 million in this reform. We hope that we will bring more with us so that this will become a reality and that a new government will not be needed just to bring about such an important reform. We'll see what happens in the future, but at least this leisure card is something we're betting on. If you have a socio-economically exposed situation, this card can be loaded with up to SEK 2,400 depending on the situation. We believe in the general. I know that many people here often talk warmly about the general welfare and that everyone should benefit from the welfare. Here we have now changed our original proposal from just targeting the most vulnerable to targeting everyone with a general leisure card that we now believe in very much and that we hope for.
i-RxFbQDssUVVgjzgAfjZsJy	Mr. Old President! An evening like this: You tell me, that tia ho goes, but no one knows how in the dog ho goes, for now, then int then, and then then it's int now. That's the only way to be right now. It was a poem by Gunde Johansson from Filipstad. I thought I'd buy it when we talked about dialects. Mr. Old President! Three young people are recruited every day to gang crime. They are youths who should instead play football, play in a band or be in a theatre group. Young people should take part in constructive leisure activities instead of destructive actions. When I grew up at home in the small village of Ekshär in Värmland, we were caught up early in some sport, choral singing, New Year's Revey or something. Or we could hang out in the reading corner at the library, play ping-pong or meet friends at the Indiania youth centre. You do know that they call us Equestrians Indians, don't you? It is clear that there was petty criminality also in Ekshär. I guess I was one of the worst bad boys myself, to be honest. But I had good role models in adults who picked up my derailments so that I ended up in different educational environments. My dad was a soccer coach, and my mom worked at the library. In practice, it is about how we adults shoulder our responsibility to secure children's and young people's right to leisure activities. We must give children and young people the opportunity to develop into independent individuals and to have all possible conditions. All children's rights to culture are enshrined in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. Mr. Old President! Children's and young people's access to leisure activities is nothing that comes of itself. It is the government and parliament that have the ultimate responsibility for our compliance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. For all young people to have the opportunity for meaningful leisure time, according to the government, good interaction between civil society and the public is required. It should not be the case that individuals' good economics or resourceful parents are the prerequisites for access to cultural activities. All children and young people have a right to culture and must be given the opportunity to participate in different cultural activities. This requires a conscious and long-term policy that creates the conditions for culture to become a natural part of children's and young people's everyday lives. The cultural school plays an important role in this work. It gives children and young people the opportunity to explore their creativity. The municipal cultural school reaches many children and young people throughout the country and helps to lay the foundations for their cultural, social and intellectual development. The cultural school is of great importance not only for individual children and young people but also for the education of society, which makes it a national matter. However, the cultural school faces a number of challenges where the need for professional teachers and educators needs to be addressed. But the most important challenge is to reach all children and young people so that they feel that they can take part in the activity. Not all children can become cultural personalities, but everyone should feel that they had the chance to try their wings. Mr. Old President! Despite the challenges, the cultural school is an activity that we should be proud of having in Sweden. That's why we spend 200 million annually on the cultural school. We also do other things for culture. We want to further strengthen culture and make it more accessible. We want to strengthen public libraries through the reform Strengthened libraries. We want to increase support for the reform Creating School to allow more children across the country to enjoy high-quality culture within the school, and we want free admission to state museums. Mr. Old President! I almost forgot: of course I support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations. Mr. Old President! Forums we cannot ignore when discussing children and young people are the internet and social media. As Catarina used to be, there is a lot of good stuff there, and the internet is a platform that permeates all young people's everyday lives. But there are other things too, and it is harassment and online hatred that over time have gained more and more space. This form of bullying must be combated and can never be accepted. Therefore, work should be intensified as it is necessary to safeguard democratic society and dialogue. The online hatred is ultimately the responsibility of all citizens in a democracy. For many children and young people, verbal and physical violence both inside and outside the home is a reality that we have been dealing with. The Government therefore decided in April 2021 to appoint a special investigator who was tasked with making proposals for a comprehensive national strategy to prevent and combat violence against children, including honour-related violence. The assignment will be presented no later than 31 May 2022. The Government also set up an investigation in November 2021 that it should be criminalised not to report or to withhold child marriage offences. The assignment shall be presented on 1 December 2022. In order to increase the competence of honor-related violence and repression, the government has decided on its own investment of 430 million by 2023. As you can see, important work is being done to combat violence against and oppression of children and young people. Mr. Old President! The former Minister of Culture Bengt Göransson claimed that the former culture minister is not getting healthier. By that he did not mean that there should be less investment in culture. On the contrary, it was the idea that culture must be useful as he attacked. Culture is not about healthcare costs, but about insights that change people who change the world. Culture is not useful and money – culture is insight. Thank you for listening!
i-WrN8fMtAUdBRMU3XYVDvCL	Mr. Old President! Let me start by thanking Lars Mejern Larsson for the fine words at the end. It was a really nice post. This report does not deal with motions from the Left Party, but our proposals for children and young people have been dealt with earlier this year. But I was going to take the opportunity to touch on two of the activities that are lifted by other parties, namely kulturskolan and creative school. Mr. Old President! Yesterday I visited the citizens' house in Arboga. There is a salon for cinema and theatre and also the Leisure Bank that helps to enable active leisure by lending equipment. It is amazing that there is something called a citizen's house that you can visit in this way. Yesterday you could take part in the show Glitter and Party. It was the older students of the cultural school who played together in a larger orchestra. It was also a rock band. It was danced, it was sung and film was shown. Everything was carried out by these young people. After two years of pandemic, they finally had the opportunity to perform in front of an audience, and you could really see the pride. It was tangible. Even for the younger ones in the audience, it felt like an important experience. They got a role model in the elderly on stage. This is a very important activity that more would really need to be achieved. Unfortunately, several things stop. For many families, fees are too high. For others, it is the queues that stop. Once there's a place, you might have lost interest. In some municipalities it is not even possible to get in line because there is absolutely no cultural school. For some children with disabilities there may be concerns about whether they will fit in and whether the educators have the right knowledge to create a good learning situation. For some children, this is simply an unknown activity. The money that the Left Party, together with the government, provided to the last parliamentary term has stimulated development and tariff reductions, but more steps need to be taken in order for everyone to feel welcome and able to afford it. In particular, we need more educated cultural school educators to get to grips with the queues. Here the government has failed to provide the funds promised in the bill for some year se da n, but it can be solved as early as this autumn. The second part of the organization is more tricky. The School Inspectorate's statement that it is not compatible with the School Act to allow students to leave lessons to participate in instrument education causes a lot of problems in the country. Mr. Old President! It is important that we continue to be able to use the school as an arena for the cultural school. But it is also important that the regular school gets a substantial cultural boost. Brain research shows that children who start a lesson by singing, dancing or playing learn more the rest of the time. An interesting research project showed that students who exchanged a mathematics lesson this week for a music lesson in the end became more skilled in mathematics than those who had more mathematics education. This new knowledge of how the brain works and learning takes place needs to have an impact on the design of teaching and permeate our learning environments. Since 2008, Creative School is the single largest targeted initiative on culture in primary school. The idea is that the school head is looking for state support that is passed through the Swedish Arts Council, and for that sum you can then use professional cultural actors to carry out activities together with the students. The statistics available show that all municipalities have at some point benefited from state funds, but many schools are completely out of the system. It is mainly small municipalities and private authorities who seek to a lesser extent. The greater transparency of the reform Creative School that was done by Kulturanalys 2013 showed that where the school already worked well, where there were dedicated principals and teachers and where there was a habit of working with culture, Creative School worked well. In its evaluation, Kulturanalyst noted that there is great potential for improvement in order for Creative School to reach more, engage students more and lead to more sustainable business development. Although the evaluation was carried out in 2013, the Swedish Arts Council was unfortunately only recently asked to do something about the issue. Point interventions such as these via Creative School are important for students to meet cultural workers of different kinds and try new ways of working. But it is extremely important that the usual lessons on aesthetic subjects are given the right conditions. In recent years' discussion of deteriorating school performance, voices are sometimes raised because students need more time for theoretical studies, and thus there is less room for practical-aesthetic subjects. For us in the Left Party, it is important that students have access to good subject education in the practical-aesthetic subjects and that teachers receive support to integrate the aesthetic learning processes into their teaching. It is important for children's development, learning and well-being. For this to be possible, educators must be given the right education and the right conditions to do their job. In a survey conducted by the National Association of Teachers, as few as 22-25 percent of teachers in crafts and music reported that they receive subject-relevant training. The corresponding figure for the teachers in the picture was only 15 per cent. They felt that the training they received was offered a bit random and that it did not lead forward. The investigation also showed that only just over half had adequate facilities. Many also lacked subjects that could be discussed with. In this regard, too, the educators were those who were most dissatisfied. Many also witnessed to large groups that they would have time to see and support all students. The scheduled time was not sufficient to achieve the knowledge objectives. The answers are consistent with the reviews that the Swedish School Inspectorate has done on the subject of music. There it was seen that those who succeeded well had adapted premises. They had group rooms. You could have half-class education. There were qualified teachers and access to several different instruments. The poor work situation in many schools discourages many from seeking employment. Therefore, the proportion of unauthorized persons is also large. In order to attract more people, we need to increase the quality of teaching and improve the working environment for both students and teachers. We think that there is a need for an investment in these subjects, and we think that the government, together with the responsible authorities and the Swedish municipalities and regions, need to take this issue seriously. Mr. Old President! This was a selection of the issues that the Left Party is pushing to give all children access to culture. With this, I would like to support the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-FBxpt9YcrPqB3edvwtmABH	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Vasiliki Tsouplaki, for what you said in your speech! You spoke well of the role and significance of music for young people, not least. We know that it also means a great deal to older people, but we are now talking about culture for children and young people. We have designed a leisure card that the honourable Member and I have debated before. I am now trying to create a basis, a breadth, in decision-making. In the light of what I have heard, it might be interesting to be involved in this process. As I said, I have a proposal for a leisure card and agree that the model, a leisure money, was not quite up to the mark. Now, however, we have made a general grant for everyone in grades 2 to 9 charged with 500 SEK. This is one way of stimulating what we are talking about. Whether it's movement, music, theatre or whatever it is, this could be something that makes more people engage in culture or sport. A card loaded with a sum of money, we should be able to gather around. What do you say, Vasiliki Tsouplaki, to the proposal?
i-G4NJiEHSqfPcdxLCT8XYqv	Mr. Old President! I thank Roland Utbolt for giving us the opportunity to discuss this issue. I very much appreciate the fact that the honourable Member has adjusted his proposal. We have discussed this many times during our term of office. I feel that I have reached Roland Utbolt with regard to our criticism of the previous proposal and that it is now a more left-wing proposal that the honourable Member is presenting. There are many of the thoughts that I had as a municipal politician. We thought along these lines. How could we make visible to children and young people in the municipality where I was active then that it is possible for everyone to be in an association? We thought that some kind of card could be an idea. I think that's a good idea. But we don't belong to the same party and usually we don't negotiate with each other. I cannot therefore promise Roland Utbolt that this is something that we will propose in the future. But I know that we often have a common value base in terms of how children from socio-economically vulnerable conditions can also be involved and active in their free time. We have the same approach on this issue, and I welcome this type of proposal.
i-9UeDPbG7pDFuBBterXTjtY	Mr. Old President! I thank Vasiliki Tsouplaki for the answer to my question. Of course, I am inspired by what I hear and also hopeful about the future. We hope that more parties and more Members will understand the importance of this. I am also aware that this is also about money and that we are not negotiating the budget like this and perhaps not otherwise. But with a good proposal with a good basis, one might eventually be able to find out together. Those who negotiate on our part are also those who have actually designed this from the beginning, one might say. So on our part it is well founded. The honourable Member talks about reaching out to socio-economically vulnerable groups – children and young people living in exclusion. This is an excellent proposal. Everyone gets this card loaded with 500 SEK for membership fees in the cultural school, sports associations or other associations that exist in the field of culture. It is therefore very much in line with the socio-economic aspect. I am therefore grateful for the answer and hope that we can move forward. I thank Vasiliki Tsouplaki for this.
i-8U1W3fkYJQ5bZwBGLBWLdA	Mr. Old President! I thank Roland Utbolt for his continued discussion. I hope that it is Members such as Roland Utbolt and other Christian Democrats who have this social value base that can have a greater impact on the party's policy in the future. I have been very concerned when I have followed the debate that has been the last few weeks after the riots and riots in several of the country's cities, where Roland Utbolt's party leader expresses himself in a harsh and, I think, a sometimes adjacent to racist way. I hope that the social commitment expressed by Roland Utbolt can continue to be part of Christian Democratic policy.
